ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I don't know if you notice one joy shown here by the MPs of the SNS when you give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34869	Please change to the amendment. Yeah, they love you. You're just asking for an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34870	Do you see?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34871	Seven now, with pleasure. Great.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34872	Mrs. Gojkovic, seven minutes I'd like to use, two minutes for this amendment and five amendments minutes to make one introduction for our amendment debate since today, honored gentlemen, all day long, I hope, we, Professor Atlagic, will discuss education. First, as the President of the National Assembly said, about the proposal for a law on textbooks concerning basics and secondary schools, gentlemen, followed by the amendment of the Law on Higher Education and we have the basis of a system of education and education. I would like one piece of information here to announce to the MPs and Minister Verbic and respected guests from the ministry. We National MPs of the New Party have tabled on these three draft laws a total of 33 amendments. Of these 33 amendments, gentlemen, the government has accepted seven amendments and seven amendments to the proposal for a textbook law, gentlemen. I think it is important to record for the history of parliamentaryism in us that in this year and three months, gentlemen, we National MPs of the New Party have submitted a total of 1,483 amendments, that of these 1,483 amendments were accepted 107 including this one to the member of the 1st Honored National Assembly, which is, in total, respected gentlemen, to hear the MPs of the SNS, 7.2%, respected gentlemen. So 7.2%. In a year and three months of persistent, hardworking, dedicated work, the New Party has come to 7.2% of accepted amendments and support in the electoral body. The amendment to Article 1 esteemed gentlemen who, unfortunately, is not one of those seven amendments accepted concerns our proposal to change the name of this bill, or the law if adopted. The government has proposed, on behalf of the Government, that the law be called the Law on textbooks, we have proposed, gentlemen, that this name be reduced and that the law has the next name of the law on textbooks for elementary and high school, which is, I think, the most precise name for this bill. I think our proposal is in accordance with Article 1(1) of this Bill, where it is beautifully written, respected gentlemen, this law regulates the preparation, approval, selection, release, withdrawal and monitoring of textbooks and textbooks, manuals and teaching materials and additional teaching tools for elementary and high school, respected gentlemen. That's what it says in Section 1. The government has answered us, or Minister Verbic on behalf of the Government, this amendment cannot be accepted because the draft law in addition to the basic and secondary school textbooks also approves both the didactic means and the doactive game resources and aids in the pre-school institution. But, gentlemen, there is sufficient content of Article 2. The law's proposal to cover this, and the 2nd fine writes – on preparation, approval, issuance and withdrawal of practical means and practical means and aids for pre-school education, education and school, as well as their monitoring during the use of educational and educational work, shall be applied accordingly to the provisions of this law. Dear gentlemen, our idea was this - that a man who is interested in the matter of textbooks for elementary and high school very simply through the name of the law can come to what is the subject of his interest, not that man, for example. reads the law, and then in paragraph 3, notices one fence, that the provisions of this law do not apply to high school textbooks. Then a man, for example. who thought – sees the Law on textbooks, means textbooks for all possible levels, for basics, for secondary and higher education, he means to get the law, thinks it's the law, comes and only when he takes to read the law in attitude 3. he notices – ow, that's not for me. Dear gentlemen, it seems to us that if we change the name of the bill and put it the way we have suggested, which is the proposal for a law on textbooks for elementary and high school, that we will only further specify what the contents of this bill is, or the law when it is passed. I think that creates the conditions immediately and for our next amendment to Article 1 in Section 3, where we would delete this item 3, because the assumption is that if the name of the law is – the Law on elementary and high school textbooks, that we should not have extra texts in the law, so let's explain to someone – be careful, this is not about textbooks relating to higher education, universities, etc. I am pleased, Minister Verbić, that you have accepted the seven amendments, but I am not happy and I am not satisfied with the explanation for not accepting the amendment concerning the name of this law and I hope that we will discuss it a little today, because in the principle debate, as we remember, we have not had the opportunity to discuss with Minister Verbic, only the MPs of the SNS and the ruling majority. Another thing I'm not happy with, we have submitted five amendments concerning Minister Verbic, one of the great principles of higher education, and none of the five has been accepted. They concern, gentlemen, academic congratulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34873	You've spent all your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34874	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34875	Now you have two minutes alone. The word has Minister Verbic, two minutes to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34876	Dear Members of Parliament, the President-in-Office, I think this is an excellent proposal and we have discussed this topic. However, I must tell you that the lawyers were inexcusable and that they did not even accept my argument, because my argument was something entirely different from this formal response, which I consider to be absolutely correct. My explanation was – if we put the textbooks for elementary and high school, then it would be understood that we must have textbooks for higher education. In higher education, they actually need to know that they use all the books that are in the library. Well, I guess we're not gonna model basic and high school to make all the textbooks and all the same books to study. I think it would be a simple violation of higher education. Higher education knows how to prepare teaching material and there is no need for us to now have more publishers who participate in competitions and print textbooks for higher education. But just like your argument didn't go through, mine didn't go through, and the formal legal answer is here, and I believe it's quite in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34877	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34878	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today a very serious law, a good law, a law on textbooks, and I call on all Members of the People to continue this discussion in that tone. So we're leaving today from the amendment of the very name of this law. I invite all MPs not to accept this amendment, and I will state my reasons for it. I think the title of the Law on textbooks is quite good, quite adequate, because simply the promoters of this amendment forget one part of our education and education, which is preschool education and education. In my view, this is the most important argument that this proposal is rejected, because simply an integral part of this law is a practical tool, a game tool, and an aid for preschool education. It would be simply unserious of all of us to artificially tear that part of the law away. Of course, this is pre-university law, and high school textbooks are regulated by other regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34879	The word is Dr Ljubisa Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34880	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I listened with attention to my colleague Pavicevic and to a lot of what he said, I agree. His proposal is interesting and, as the minister said, there was no reason for the quite apriori to reject the proposal, but we see that a second opinion has prevailed and I hope that counterpart Pavicevic will not lose his will for further security work and that there will be much, much more of its amendments and colleagues, which we will accept in the future. I think this is also a very big success, and about 25% of the amendments to this law have been passed and it has been a pleasure for me on the board to realize that so many of their amendments have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34881	Thank you. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34882	Dear President, I find this amendment very interesting, but at first I should say that it should be rejected, since it suggests that the Law on textbooks is called a law on textbooks for elementary and high school. Therefore, a completely previous colleague is right, under the Law on textbooks also means basic doactic material in preschool institutions etc. But what the minister said, it's quite true. Higher education at universities, or universities is not just about textbooks, literature is given, and it is not limited. Thus, they would limit even literature in higher education institutions, which is not in line with academic honesty and responsibility. Therefore, I propose that the amendment be rejected and I am simply surprised that the amendment has come from the professors of a university, because it is clear to professors, professors and professional university associates. So I see no reason to accept the amendment, but on the contrary, I suggest that it be rejected and I believe that it is the Government, i.e. The Ministry did a proper job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34883	Thank you. The word has Dr. Stojadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34884	Dear Mrs Gojkovic, dear Mr Verbic, guests from the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, at the very beginning, as the public discussion went on, I was thinking about the name of this law. However, it is not easy to make a law on all textbooks. It is definitely impossible in one law to include textbooks for universities, for higher education, because absolutely many members and attitudes would not fit. Maltena all textbooks, apart from mathematics, physics and some basic subjects of general and general education, are low-level and none of that would work. That's one thing. Secondly, I wouldn't call myself here too much for preschool education. Simply, this law regulates this segment of learning education, the most powerful means for this segment of education. At the very beginning, it is said - it is stressed that issues related to textbooks at universities, in higher education regulates the second law, and it is quite clear, however, that, when it comes to these textbooks, it is also related to the choice of teachers, etc. There's no training kits like this, there's practice and whatnot, so absolutely, I've been thinking about whether or not something can be done here, to correct the title, but I think this title is quite satisfying. I support this as it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34885	MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together to the 1st amendment. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34886	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Verbic, the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry. The amendment to Article 1 is very nicely attached to the amendment regarding our proposal to amend the law. Dear gentlemen, we have just suggested what Minister Verbic said earlier, that we do not engage in high education textbooks, because of course the assumption, gentlemen, that, in the framework of the higher education system we offer literature, literature is read. I expected, for example, that when the minister comes here today and brings a proposal of some summer literature in the light of some draft laws, a whole new one, for example, about higher education. But there is no summer book, gentlemen, for us MPs, when it comes to education laws. Be careful, in the bill of law, Mr Stojmirovic, Mr Atlagic, left it, says – preparing, approving and issuing textbooks for an institution that performs the work of higher education. So, the government is starting with that in the higher education system we should have textbooks, that it's being dealt with by some law, and we've suggested that we delete that attitude, because we think that the content of this law should only concern textbooks, as is the case, for primary and secondary schools. Dear Lords, it would certainly be that you answer now to say: you are right, gentlemen of the People's Parliament of the New Party, because you have suggested what we have spoken of earlier. But, Mrs. Gojkovic, that's not gonna happen. Now Mr. Atlagic and Mr. Stojmirovic and Mr. Orlic will stand up and everyone will say no to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34887	People's MP, yesterday we agreed there was no calling.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34888	Dialogue, President, so we need a dialogue in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34889	Yes, dialogue, but allow MPs who want to conduct a dialogue with you to lead it. If they don't want him, don't make them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34890	Mr. Atlagic has already signed up...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34891	You don't know who signed up. I'm the only one who checked in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34892	But I know it's preceding.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34893	So, please, don't argue. No name or last name for the Members.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34894	Dear President, the Assembly is a place to discuss...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34895	But it's not for calling. I won't let you do it today, and the time has passed. I've been talking for the last 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34896	You've taken ten seconds from me now, but there are amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34897	I'm not coming back. I won't, because you're going to read the names of the MPs, that's not correct. Dr. Vladimir Orlic called. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: There, you see. But you didn't call him. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34898	Thank you, Madam President. It's by amendment, whatever anyone thinks or wants to think. So, I suggest that the amendment is not accepted, with another finding that I am incredibly glad that we have started this debate quite seriously, as it should be, is it? Not to be accepted, not because of what we said, because we're more than clear about what we said, but because of what the amendment promoter said, and just now. So, if it is believed that information could be found in this attitude that explains to someone interested in the content of the law what it does not need to be sought, so far before this position should remain here, that is, to provide that information. So not to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34899	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34900	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is an interesting proposal from counterpart Pavicevic. I do not mind that he called me, and eventually a people's place says: a wise man learns from every place and every place. So we can learn a lot of things here, too. I fully agree that high and higher education textbooks should not be an integral part of this law, after all, and we know how practice regulates it. I am very sorry that you did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34901	Thank you. MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, you are angry with me, I think, for no reason, and the Honorable Minister Verbic, distinguished guests and distinguished guests from the Ministry, the MPs of the New Party, that is us, we have submitted the amendment and to Article 2 of this Bill, Honored Gentlemen. I would like to make two comments here, dear Mrs Gojkovic, here, that I may address you, so if any of the MPs come forward for a discussion, I will be pleased. Here, let me follow your instructions in one piece. First of all, gentlemen, we have proposed here two kinds of changes in the content of Article 2, but it is only responsible for one kind of change. We have here suggested adding the words "in printed and/or electronic form" in one place. We are responsible for why it is not acceptable for Minister Verbic. But we have suggested one more thing, that after the term: "receivers" add the words "in the basic and middle education of adults", so that, gentlemen respected, whenever we prepare the laws, when people read the laws that we adopt here, in order to have the most precise possible formulations, I think that this precision is really as important as it was to specify the name of this bill. I would also like to propose to all the MPs, Mrs Gojkovic, that I will not, by name and last name, mention to anyone who is sorry for not accepting any of the Nov side amendments, Mrs Gojkovic, that in the voting day, it will be today, voting for our amendments, despite the fact that the minister said he would not accept the amendment and despite what you might say – do not accept the amendment. But if they're sorry to say we're voting for that amendment and we're consistent here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34903	Time. Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34904	Thank you. Because of this precision, I call upon the MPs not to accept this amendment because in this article, Article 2, it defines the textbook and the textbook set. When we say and add "in printed or electronic form", I believe that the existing term is "in any form" spreads. He means these terms, too, but they're not just existing forms. Sometimes simple practice also requires a combination of these two forms. As far as the second concept is concerned, "introductor", it's absolutely clear to me because I'm an educator of what it means and this term is regulated in another law and there's no need to define it here again. The term "goer" is defined in the Law on adult education. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34905	Thank you. National MPs Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic together submitted the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34906	Dear Mrs Gojkovic, dear Minister Verbić, guests from the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will take advantage of the opportunity, I am also taking advantage of the time of the parliamentary group, to say some more things along with this first amendment. I have already made it crystal clear that this version of the law has been significantly improved in relation to the previous version of the law, and the fact is that not only are the publishers' objections but also some of our objections, minority members of the public debate and discussions on the Committee, included in this version of the law. There's still room for this law to be done in some finesse. We, as a parliamentary group, have tried to through 12 amendments, which is much less than on the first version, make an effort to further improve this law. Unfortunately, we had no luck as a political group of Mr Pavicevic. No amendment has been adopted for us, but I wouldn't have tied it to the rating of our political options. I simply don't think there was any understanding and goodwill by the minister and his associates. As far as this particular amendment is concerned, it is amazing that something that is further defined for the shade in one fineness, improves the definition of where we say that after values we add to the comma and the words "encouraging critical thinking and improving functional knowledge". What would bother you to find it, just explain this more precisely. Now, obviously, the promoter is attached to the second position of this member, i.e. the interpretation of what it means by the rule that the promoter has given, and what it means, as we have suggested. The reason for the refusal of the amendment, I mean really one awkward, at the very least, explanation of the promoter, that if it is written "can" it be interpreted as "not necessary". Really, it wasn't the intensity of the amendment. If put in by the rule, then the same doesn't have to include the electronic set, if you say "can", it's absolutely identical, it's fellow Lužanin as a mathematician well knows what it means. So, really, the argument that if our formulation were to be found "can," that means by the rule it shouldn't be included. I ask the Minister, however, that with a little more hearing from these 12 amendments, you try to accept something, and we will now come up with a legal solution in that case, which I think would be a great success that, after those initial turbulences, the big problems, the delay of the debate, etc., we now come up with a legal solution where the minority of all MPs, 90% of MPs support one, I must say, and this time, and I don't find it hard to say, a good legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34907	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34908	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope that fellow academics Stojadinovic and his colleagues from the parliamentary group will not stay away from the spirit because none of their amendments have been accepted. As Academyman Stojadinovic said, there is a small difference between what the ministry is proposing and the improvements advocated by counterpart Stojadinovic. But I don't see any significant difference and it won't affect the law, or the quality of the law, that your amendment isn't accepted. I hope so, and you yourself said that this law is much better compared to the previous proposal, and I just don't understand why you're telling me then if none of our amendments are accepted we won't vote. If you've already agreed that the law is much better, I mean it's not right, like little kids to play with, so he says, if it's not mine, it won't be any of it. I hope that you will still vote for this bill, and every law is a living organism, subject to change, there is time, so we will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34909	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34910	Thank you. If there's even an amendment that has my vote for, which should be, to accept then it's this amendment. In the basic text of the draft law, Article 2(2) and (4) of which the amendment refers to that position, the textbook is a fundamentally radically designed teaching tool in any form or medium used in educational training at the school for the acquisition of knowledge, skills, the formation of values and the development of intellectual and emotional abilities of pupils and students, whose contents are determined by the curriculum and programme and approved in accordance with this law. The fellow Members of the People have proposed an amendment so that it is now accepted, and I hope that by the end of the debate it will, and I will try to explain why it was only natural to say: “The textbook is a fundamentally radically designed teaching tool in any form or media that is used in educational educational work at the school for the acquisition of knowledge, skills, the formation of values, the promotion of critical thinking, the promotion of functional knowledge, that is, the addition that colleagues propose, and of course, the development of intellectual and emotional abilities of students and students, whose contents are set out in the curriculum and programme and which is approved under this law. Why is it necessary to accept? Because we have an entire discussion of how the contents of the textbooks that are now at our disposal are critically viewed as too many unnecessary facts of what is called creating, completely useless knowledge and lack, I will say freely, a spirit in textbooks that would really encourage children to learn to think, to develop critical thinking. So he can't do both. We cannot have a clear remark that the quality of the textbook is insufficient for what should be critical thinking and functional knowledge and that then one such amendment that completes Article 2 of the book should be a decision not to accept. Why is it important for that decision to change anyway? Because it would be one of the few really impeccable good things in this law, that whoever is going to report the textbook must know that in this textbook should encourage critical thinking. The critical thinking was necessary in the 20th century, in the 21st century there are no textbooks without it. To teach children to think critically and to establish a different spirit of teaching, there is nothing to do without encouraging critical thinking. It'll be an effort for textbook writers, I know. It'll be an effort for those who agree to recognize it, I know. But let's try to remember what an effort it is for primary and secondary school students to learn completely dysfunctional, endlessly repetitive continents that only create reproductive knowledge and unusable, non-functional knowledge. When we have observations about what children from primary, secondary schools know and know how to show in tests, we say, however, the results are not adequate to what children really know because it is too reproductive knowledge, because children do not have a habit through textbooks and through teaching work to learn critical thinking. Well, then why don't we tell him in all the textbooks, encouraging critical thinking. It's an incentive for dialogue, it's an incentive for innovation, it's good for workers in education. Do not leave it at the personal level of those great people who work in education in Serbia, who work hard and who really encourage critical thinking in children and really create functional knowledge for them. The second part of this amendment, the second position to which this amendment applies, has already been explained and has changed that instead of – the textbook and the textbook set normally contains an electronic supplement, it can be said that it can contain an electronic supplement. This sentence change is by definition equal. So either he can or he's by the book. If it's the rule, then it doesn't have to, if it can, then it doesn't have to. That's the point of saying it by the book. If it's a distraction, it's only then I don't understand it, especially what makes it possible for those who have an electronic supplement that at this stage where some people won't tell me they just said that they can, so here I don't have to, so I don't. So you leave a wider space for all those who will appear to say, here we have the textbook, adopt it, put it on the list, give it to the educators and the children to learn from it. However, there are amendments here that significantly and significantly improve the text of the law and this is one of the key amendments. If you really want to for a year, because this law will be applied in two years from now, for two school years from today, so it says in the law, so for two school years from today, we have enough time in these two years that whoever wants to prepare a textbook and a course from any subject, to pay attention to Article 2(2), which states that what he wants to offer to children and educational workers in Serbia must encourage critical thinking and improve functional status. There's a chance in front of you. If you miss it for any reason, it will be a much stronger message than any good word about these textbooks, this proposal for a textbook law that will otherwise be spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34911	Just tell me the time? I'm taking it off my authority? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dr. Vladimir Orlic Don't yell, you're the vice president of parliament. [[Ninoslav Stojadinović, from the place: I asked for a replica, then there is no point.]] You're on the list and you'll get the word. I apologize. First he has the word Minister Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34912	Dear MPs, this amendment has indeed been in the ministry of discussion, because we believe that this proposal contains some important, important and good elements. So, just encouraging critical thinking should be found in this member of the law. Unfortunately, this change would be too much, so it contains one part that we really can't accept, which is that the electronic supplement can go with the textbooks. We think it has to, as a rule. Why? Because we think it would be a drastic difference, because, no matter how the lawyers interpret it and those who prepare textbooks, if they are told – it can, it mostly means - it doesn't have to, because nothing will happen if it doesn't. And if it says, by the rule, then it means that they have to sort of explain why it's not there, if it's quite inappropriate for a particular textbook. I can express my dissatisfaction that we cannot include this part with a critical opinion. We think it's his place, but for this other reason we couldn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34913	The word is from the MP of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34914	Dear Presidents, honourable Minister Verbić, the idea was to discuss the quality of the amendments all the time, the quality of the law, not to address each other, to replicate, to strengthen the situation, and that is why I did not advertise the Rules of Procedure, because you were probably busy and you did not register that we, dear colleague Stojmirović, spoke directly several times. But that's why I waited for the replica, and the time of the parliamentary group can be used, it's no problem, to say I didn't say we wouldn't vote unless the amendment was adopted. I said very precisely – we will vote if any of our amendments are adopted. That's a big difference. About, as a difference between – as a rule, can. So, that's the way it is. One more comment. After this explanation by Mr. Verbic, so this is all nice, you've made a great suggestion, we're sorry, but because of this, it can, as a rule, not be adopted. In other words, this is a lesson to the MPs that in the future, which was not our goal, they are investing and preparing more amendments to one member, in part. So, taught by this experience, I'm going to move on to every next member of the law that you're proposing, for every position, I'm going to make a special amendment, and then this excuse won't be considered to be great, too bad it can't, but, as a rule, it's dramaticly bad, and that's why we can't adopt it. Once again, dear Mrs Gojkovic, tell Mr Stojmirovic that he did not correctly interpret what I said, we will vote if one of our amendments is accepted of essential nature.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34915	I now understood the same thing as MP Stojmirovic, but you don't have to explain it to me. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34916	Dear President, dear Minister, I must say that I have no objection to the words spoken today and on the subject of the need to highlight encouraging critical thinking and improving functional knowledge, everything is absolutely fine and I think we all agree on that in this room. I want to underline once again that there's a good sense of reason that we got from the government and from the minister orally. I also find him very important. The fact is that we can all feel the difference between the term that is in the original text and the one that is proposed by the amendment, i.e. this - by the rule and – can. If there were no difference, let's talk completely open, which we would have suggested from the amendment at all. It wouldn't bother the motionor, if it were the same. I'm not saying it bothers you, but there's a difference, and the difference is that it's usually something that means something, something is expected on that side, and if that doesn't happen, it's a kind of exception, a situation that has to have its own justification. If it just stood – it could, then it could mean both and equally important and equally pay attention to it, and if it happens that the electronic supplement does not follow the textbook, and it may or may not, no one would ask the question. If it stands – as a rule, then it is logical to ask the question - and why is there no? And if there's a good reason he's not here, that's a reason to explain it. I believe this is important, and for what? We have talked here and I believe that everyone, including the amendment promoter, will agree that it is a good thing that we introduce this electronic supplement, that it is good, that it is in the spirit of our time, that it encourages some of the techniques and skills that we think should be grown in this year in which we are, and that in the time of the tendencies to be used, and that such techniques will be increasingly and more and more necessary. In that regard, I really do believe, I'm telling you honestly that it's good to encourage the use of an electronic supplement, so if we lose to the edge of the demand at least for shade, we'll discourage it in the way we've heard it in the explanation of the minister. In any case, to thank for the fair finding, that this is better served as a bill compared to everything we have talked about, that it makes sense only to work invested and by whoever prepared the proposal and by all of us who have tried to make a contribution to this story and that those words – we will vote, if something is adopted, we may well be able to understand it as words – and even if we do not adopt it, we do not exclude that we will vote. I'd like that to happen, and I'm sure at the end of today's debate, good things, and there's a lot of them, a lot of them, about this law, won't be able to overcome. I'm sure the messages on good and quality proposals will be the main message today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34917	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34918	Dear President, allow me to look back on the first part and the second part of this amendment. I think it is clear to all of us what the word means – as a rule and a word – can. As a rule, it would mean that more needs and "can" be less needed. "In general" means the word – either by rule or by rule, that means, I see that the opposition is a little insolent, but I can free the dictionary to take and look at a little words. If the aim is that the legislator has said that publishing is wrong, then there is a logic to remain as the Government suggests a word – as a rule, and not – can. "It can" means it doesn't have to. And the second part, I'm just surprised that the amendment promoter put the teaching tasks in some way that the textbook should interfere. Please, the material task is knowledge, the functional task of teaching as second, equally important, is to develop critical and functional, whatever you want, opinions. And the third is the educational task. That's what every teacher, teacher, educator and student even in elementary school knows and there's no reason to put it here. Those who write, create textbooks, have to know, not only the teaching tasks, but they must know how the textbook is written, and for your information, gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected parents, there is at least one ten monograph on the writing of textbooks. It is not as simple as some MPs think it is, but a very complex task. Putting into this legal proposal teaching assignments is out of every sense. So I suggest that the amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34919	The word is made by MP Gordana Komic, following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34920	Thank you. I use the time of authorized representatives of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. As proof that it is very useful when you were taught by someone who has encouraged your critical opinion and who has promoted functional knowledge, I will also give to colleagues who have submitted the amendment and the minister and to all fellow Members one proposal, with thanks and marriage to people who have taught me critically, despite everything from Olga Pećanin, Nada Pavlov, Gizele Sabadoska, Nelitrikina, Julian Kiša, Bratislava Tosić, Marija Škrinjara. Personally, my teachers during primary, high school and college who taught me critical opinions and the need to never stop learning and to improve my functional knowledge. I propose to the amendment promoters, and I suggest to all of us that by the end of the discussion of the details, since the minister has absolutely nothing against the fact that there is an incentive for critical thinking and for the improvement of functional knowledge, and we all agree on this, the only obstacle is that "we can" do more, and "by the rule" is that, because of this ambiguity, with the agreement of the promoter, it should be addressed to the amendment in which it would be stated that the technical error put this sentence as a change of attitude 4. Such an amendment with a correction, which would then vote to encourage critical thinking and improving functional knowledge, I understood from this debate that no one would mind. It's functional knowledge. On the other hand, the story of being right and in the laws of "rule" means that more should and may mean less need, then the same people I mentioned, along with Dimitria Zekavica from High School "Draj Jova Dragon", that's what he called her, taught me to say - you won't be critical of textbooks, and it's a shame to say. That's the way it is. I think it's unnecessary and that we're doing a bad service for those who want to offer you some textbooks that would encourage critical thinking and improving functional knowledge, that's a common benefit. The common benefit, and especially the benefit of the next two years of representatives of the ministry in talks with those who will be competent to approve textbooks, to develop one, I will say perhaps unusually, a social colloquium about how much we need to encourage critical thinking. Maybe we're a lost generation, maybe we're not a generation that's learned enough how much it takes to learn, how much knowledge needs to be respected, how much it takes to improve your functional knowledge and how critical it is to think about everything that's with you. We may be, but don't let us end the generations that come after us, even though we are such a generation, that we understand the invaluable value of critical thinking that actually leads to dialogue, that we understand that others are more successful than us because they can critically think and because they understand what dialogue is. So think about my proposal. I am willing to hear and respect, of course, the explanation of the service that it is not possible, as a rule, or that this amendment cannot be done. It is only such an explanation that I can join my warm regret that, as the National Assembly, we have not missed another chance to miss a good opportunity to encourage critical thinking in textbooks for primary and secondary schools in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34921	The word has Minister Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34922	Dear MPs, I don't think we should miss a rare opportunity when there is agreement between all of us so that the text in which "can" is replaced by the words "by the rule" would be a pleasure to all of us. I'm not sure if it's procedurally possible, but if it is, the Ministry's position is that such a change should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34923	Let's get on with the discussion. The word has been given by MP Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34924	I am taking the opportunity to thank my colleague, Comic, the esteemed president, for making a major contribution to clarifying this amendment, of course, Minister Verbic with his associates for great understanding. As far as this 1st attitude is concerned, obviously we're all in agreement, it's all clear, it's just a procedure. As far as this 2nd attitude is concerned, I thought it was an electronic supplement issue, and that this is "by the rule" or "can" form, and it might have gone wrong, but I don't see that it's some big problem. As for the essence, of course, most textbooks for most of the subjects, I would say, must contain an electronic supplement, for a number of reasons. Among other things, it's much easier to innovate certain things, introduce newspapers, intrigue students, students, if there is this electronic supplement. That's more interesting. These new generations are very educated, as far as the Internet, animation, etc. is concerned. After all, and it will be easier for some changes to be made necessary, in line with the development of modern science, technology, knowledge, to be inserted, if it exists electronically. So, not to be a dilemma brought out by fellow Orlic, I absolutely support it. Most textbooks should have, but we felt that "by rule" and "can" is identical, so we included it in the proposal. Once again in conclusion, we absolutely support that textbooks contain an electronic supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34925	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34926	I'm sorry to take your word again, but let me just say it again and say it again. The course has three basic tasks: material – knowledge, functional – development of thinking and educational. I guess it's so clear to all of us, the bar that we're related to the process of education and education. It is also clear to the disciples who are listening to us now and teachers who are watching us. The textbook is one of the teaching tools, many. As the textbook writes, there are many monographs and rules in the opening of a tender at the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education. Exactly how you do it are specified. There's no need to put assignments in this bill here. Turns out, believe it or not, it's funny. From the teachers, what the fellow academic said depends on how he promotes critical development. So it's about, let's say, the training of the teacher himself, his actuality, etc. Therefore, I see no reason why we should continue to translate our tasks into this legal proposal. I think the Ministry made a good assessment of that. I guess, like the first attitude, it can, as a rule, so you're lawyers, please, you know what "in general" and "can". I don't think there's any reason to accept the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34927	The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34928	I think it's pretty clear here. I would agree that in order to develop the quality of textbooks this formulation is necessary – encouraging critical thinking, improving functional knowledge. I think that our textbooks should encourage, and of course by applying them and teachers and all together, because the quality of textbooks, without developing critical opinions and functional knowledge, which is our goal, would absolutely be impoverished. This second formulation, all agreed that "by rule" is more binding and that it is more suitable for this Law on textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34929	We found a solution, so we'll sort it out during the debate. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34930	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues, I believe that the textbook and the training kit must contain an electronic supplement to improve the quality of the student's independent work. Therefore, textbooks and textbook supplements must contain an electronic supplement. For these reasons, in Article 2 of Article 4, we have proposed that words be replaced by words - by the rule of substituting - must be. To make it a binding option, because I have to ask a question – what does it mean - by the rule? To what written rule do we call ourselves? Every law must be precise, so we must also know and let it know which rule, which rule we are referring to, and which rule is binding in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34931	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Under this amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34932	So we will support this amendment, which was submitted by fellow Petric, for the very reason that he said so, and we believe that any legal provision and that in any regulation of the law we need to avoid the provisions of the type – should, or should, as a rule, be able to, as a rule, etc. It's just like putting a driver on the highway in the Traffic Act is supposed to drive 120. And what if he oversteps that provision? So, in law, we have to lay down criminal provisions for those who break some rule that we make in law. The point of the law is to remove doubts, not to encourage them. This is also the main lack of the entire minority law, which applies the provisions throughout the law from the beginning to the end – it can, as a rule, etc., but there is no criminal provision for those who break that rule and for those who break that law. There must be a criminal provision in every law in case someone breaks the law and for that reason, and from this aspect we will support the amendment that counterpart Petric has submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34933	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34934	Thank you. President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, I believe that the amendment should not be accepted and because I do not believe that the publisher should in any way condition that this textbook must contain an electronic supplement, for one simple reason - because not all objects are not the nature of all subjects, is not such that they require an electronic supplement. When it comes to language, yes. But some objects simply by their nature are such that they really don't require an electronic supplement, so I don't think there's really any need for this. One more thing, when it comes to the quality of the textbooks, I think we need to be rigorous, but it doesn't mean anything when it's something like an electronic supplement. Why? Because there's a situation where the textbook can be very good and very good and let's say it doesn't have that electronic supplement and now, thank you very much, that it should be chosen before that textbook than one that is, so let's say, mediocre quality, but there's this technical equipment better. I'm always to choose the quality, but the essential one, the one. And at the end of the line, there's always a teacher, a teacher, who has the ability to choose which textbook he wants, so I really think that, and at the very end of the line, that teacher and teacher are there to, and the real sense of that word, teach students how to learn, how to develop creative thinking, critical thinking, too, so that no electronic supplement can replace it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34935	Thank you. The 3rd amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Riza Halimi, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34936	Thank you, Madam President. On this article we have submitted an amendment with the intention of strengthening the obligation of the add-on to the textbook knowing the current situation and the experience so far. In fact, there is a deeper problem than this proposal regulates, because, in order to achieve a textbook, or an addition of textbooks in this case for subjects of particular importance to minorities, a curricula and a programme must be drawn up previously, which is an obligation of the Republic of Educational Union. Unfortunately, until now, I certainly know that, in schools in Albanian, or in schools in Bosniak, there has not yet been a curricula and programmes or with specialities in history, from art and music culture. Then in the first, second, third and fourth classes, we have knowledge of nature and society, before that, the second is also an object that studies part of history and in this case and national minorities, so we have a previous problem that still this level of curricula and programs in this area, for these subjects, are not yet made up. They're gone. Well, there's no textbook with that. Neither does this addition textbook for these subjects of minority significance. That is why the intention here was to strengthen this obligation, to show the seriousness of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34937	The word has Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34938	Thank you, Your Honor. We have submitted this amendment with the aim of opening in the law the possibility that content in textbooks can be adapted to the characteristics, needs and specificities of pupils from the ranks of minority communities. According to the current legal solution, this is not possible now and there is simply no way to include the contents of the textbooks as proposed by the legitimate representatives. National Councils of National Minorities. In the follow-up to the languages of national minorities, textbooks are sometimes used with some controversial content for members of national minorities. You, in your reasons for refusing to accept this amendment, stated that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the obligation to add to textbooks, for items of importance to the national minority, is regulated by a textbook plan adopted by the National Educational Council on a proposal from the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education and the National Council of the National Minority. You said-- on a proposal. Furthermore, in the follow-up to the debate, we will also come up with the amendments that we have submitted to Article 20 in which we propose, among other things, and that the publisher must deliver the consent of the National Council of National Minorities. If the national council of national minorities does not give consent to the textbook in the language and letter of the national minority, it will not be approved. On the other hand, fortunately for us, you have accepted an amendment from an SVM colleague who says that in Article 20 instead of words – positive opinions add words – previous consent. The adoption of this amendment changes the circumstances under which you refused our amendment. So you should now look at the amendments that you have accepted and the ways in which they change the law and look at the circumstances under which you consider all the amendments that we have submitted. According to this, our amendment is absolutely meaningful and I urge you to think about it again and that it is not too late and that you accept this amendment and take advantage of your ability, and I call on your colleagues to support the adoption of this amendment for the same reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34939	The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34940	Thank you. In addition to the vote for the amendment tabled by counterparts Sulejma Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dizdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi, the vote for and for the argument Mr Enis Imamovic has just highlighted since the accepted amendments to other members who are not connected at first sight are changing the status and amendments they have submitted. We have before us a job that has gone very slowly so far, which is the co-operation of national councils, the Institute of Promotion and Ministry to really do the job of teaching plans and programmes for members of national communities in Serbia who would be such that they are all agreeable, and then textbooks can be done. Whether it will be through the acceptance of this amendment quite clearly put into the law or in that triangle it will become some other result I cannot assess. I think it would be a good idea for the amendment to be accepted so that it would be a second step immediately between the actors in charge of curricula and programmes. What remains to me as a question I did not get an answer in the principle debate – who translates textbooks, who translates textbooks from Serbian to the languages of national communities? There's no such thing in the law. I think the changes that concern the work of the National Councils and the joint work of the Ministry of Education, the Institute of Promotion and National Councils are a good idea, but it will remain an idea if you don't know who translates the textbooks now. Who does that? National councils? The Ministry? The Bureau? A publisher? Who does that? This is a key question for you so that we can really say that changing the Law on textbooks regarding textbooks in minority languages is not just a good idea. Like when Gandhi asked what he thought about Western-Christian civilization, and he says, "That's a good idea." I would like to have no doubt who translates textbooks, because then you can also have deadlines, then you can have plans, then you can also have procedures to enter between the National Councils and the Ministry, whether you accept this amendment or not. Not a problem with missing textbooks in minority languages is the responsibility of Minister Verbic, not even this government, in a reconstructed, electoral, earlier in the three years and this quarter. No, that's also the previous government's responsibility. A team before that should be an argument that the lack of results in this area takes too long and that everyone who has any constructive proposal should now give it, adopt it and know who translates textbooks, when it will be finished, who will do the curricula and programmes and who will be responsible for doing it within the time limit. They've been in front of us for two years. So we have time. Under this law will be textbooks for school 2017/2018. A year. We have time and let's start to understand that if we have some timelines ahead of us, then let's take over the jobs that we think can be done within that time limit. I think that both curricula and translation decisions and everything can be two years from now, that we all know that in two years from today we're going to have an orderly area. It will be both the result and the merit of this government's completion of this job and I will be the first to publicly express it as an excellent result that you can't find in the region or in Europe, for God's sake, that education in the languages of the national communities is this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34941	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34942	Thank you, President. Minister, LSV MPs will also support this amendment, for the reasons we are aware, we who come from Vojvodina, that we live in a multinational environment, in which there have been a variety of conflicts lately because we don't know each other or a little bit about one, and we're a little concerned about one. I especially think that these supplements should be placed with the books of the national minorities, because I come from a homogeneous environment and I haven't even learned about my history at school. So we didn't learn about Russian history. Especially now, children also know nothing about their history, and they know nothing about the history of the peoples or the national communities they live with. So, these supplements would be used, not only by a specific national community, but also by other members of national communities, perhaps living in that community, who go to that school, or could be used, for example, in some other schools. It is easy to translate into Serbian or another language of the national community afterwards. Secondly, I would like to support Parliament's speech by Gordana Comić on these translation textbooks. I'll give you an example. No one speaks Russian at the Duke's Pedagogical Institute, no one knows Russian. We don't have an inspector for Russian, for teaching in Russian. No one speaks Russian either at the Regional Secretariat of Education. And I'm also asking, who's going to control, who's going to do this control role about publishing textbooks, especially about translation? National councils may do so, but national councils do not have these professional services, except for the Education Committee that would do so. So, I think that the state, the Ministry and the Regional Secretariat, to which some responsibilities have been transferred, will again have a big problem with the translation of textbooks, controlling the translation of textbooks, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34943	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Anamaria Vicek.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34944	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I would only like as another party belonging to one national minority to add my contribution to this issue on this amendment. In fact, the amendment was rejected by reason that the rule concerning textbooks in the language of the national minority would describe precisely and in detail what it implies and therefore should not stand in such detail in the law. I would just like to point out that when it comes to textbooks in the languages of national minorities, we have four groups of textbooks. This does not exactly match this description in the Law on textbooks in the languages of national minorities, but what is important is that there are textbooks that are published and printed in Serbia in the language of the national minority, which are for teaching writing and reading for the native language. There are another group of textbooks that translate textbooks from Serbian into the language of the national minority, which have no specificity regarding the national minority. These are textbooks from, say, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, etc. So in this case only the quality of the translation should be considered, if it is a textbook already approved in Serbian. I agree here with the previous speakers, that this is where the attention should be paid and who will make the proposal. In some previous versions of the law, it was a variant of being a licensed court interpreter. However, this should pay attention to professional matters. So these should be teachers and teachers who teach these professional subjects in the language of the national minority. Of course, along with the other amendments that we have proposed, which have been accepted, it will be the national council of the national minorities who will play a crucial role in this process. Namely, it should give prior consent to this translation, which will mean that national councils should play the professional role in whether or not to approve the translation. Let's go back to the next group of textbooks in the languages of national minorities, and that's where we are now with this amendment. Namely, they are textbooks that translate textbooks approved from Serbian into the language of the national minority, but which play an extremely large role because they are important to a particular national minority. These are textbooks in the first and second classes for the subject of nature and society, i.e. knowledge of nature, society and environment, i.e. the world around us, and in the third and fourth classes of nature and society, and in the higher classes of history and art. Now, in some languages of national minorities there are textbooks for music culture that are printed in the language of national minorities, and if they are not, then, of course, the supplement needs to be brought into line with that. So if we want this law to be perfect, or the provision of this law, then this point 3 should be a textbook that translates textbooks from Serbian with an addition, because the supplement does not create a special continent. This is not especially printed as a special textbook, but it is 15% plus at the end of the textbook that is printed in the language of the national minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34945	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34946	Just for a little while, I'm going to express my gratitude for the reasons for refusing the amendment, rather than insisting that the amendment be accepted. The main thing of the amendment is how to adapt the contents and formats of the textbooks referred to in Article 1 and Article 2 relating to textbooks for students with developmental interference. First, it is good that there is such a provision and that Article 4 states that students with developmental disorders use a textbook whose content or format is adapted to their abilities, needs and capabilities and in Article 2 to use textbooks whose format, or letter, is adapted to their needs. Our intervention was to say, "Yes," that everything about adapting content was prescribed by the minister, to be a special regulation, and that's the only change. The explanation that it is not necessary, I mention not because of the slow explanation, this is one of the few arguments of the Government that I do not dispute, but which, whoever wrote the explanation, has read the Unique Methodological Rules, which this Assembly has brought, which I think is one of the first times ever that we have paper proof that someone in the Government has read what is bound by the Assembly and I am here, not as an opposition, not as a former coalition, not as future anything, as a member of the National Assembly. I just have to mark it and consider it a good practice. So the fact that the amendment has not been accepted is, which is true, that Article 10(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has been adopted. The unique methodological rules for the making of regulations of our Assembly, which is also binding on the Government, to designate the authority which is authorised and responsible for the adoption of the sublaw and to determine the scope of the sublaw, which is true, and not to indicate the name of the sublegal act, and Article 15(2). The State Administration Act, which is also true, is prescribed for the regulation to work out certain provisions of the laws or regulations of the Government. Then, the government believes it's clear that by this authority a rule is passed, not by order, direction, but by whatever. I can agree, the desire to stand by the last rule is more that the whole sense of innovation of this kind, to talk about textbooks for students with developmental disorders, in this way to make them have a special rule. I understand this interpretation. When the United Methodological Rules are already mentioned, if you talk to colleagues from other ministries, you will, of course, not to admire each other, tell them that you have read that this exists and that there is a resolution on the legislative activities of the National Assembly, where there is a provision that obliges the proposings to apply also sublegal acts at the same time as the draft law. It's a very important provision that's put into a fine form of law, that any promoter can explain why he's in no way able, because we want to improve the practice that the proposals are going through the procedure, and sooner or later this resolution will be applied and, on this case, it means, with the draft law on textbooks to do, as the Resolution says, as you did this, as the Unique Methodological Rules say, we would have a rule here on insight. The explanation of the promoter is always - so I can't know what kind of rule the minister will give for children's textbooks with developmental disturbances, when I don't know what the law will be. After you've passed the law? You don't know what the law will be. Perhaps this article, quite hypothetically, will be rejected by most. He won't. A properly sublegal act as legislators, in accordance with what we want in the basic provisions. As you change the basic provisions to amendments, so do you in sublegal acts. The process is being shortened, you're holding back those who, no minister understands how good it is for him, so neither will this one, probably, but I won't stop. The minister is reducing, holding back those who will tell him -- we can't now, no act has been passed, we can't now, we don't have this yet. The one who says that to the minister, you can't see it. The minister can tell, but I haven't been able to reach any. So, without insisting on a special regulation, I repeat my argument just because I feel obliged to assess the good reasoning sent by the Government because it is a good example that I want to promote and invite others who will give us reasons to accept or not accept amendments, to handle the way the service that works for the Ministry of Education has done and to explain to us the acceptance or non-acceptance of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34947	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34948	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic, the Honored Minister Verbic and the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, accepted our amendment to Article 5, as well as the next amendment to Article 7 of this proposal. Here, in advance, I will immediately inform the MPs, first of all from the SNS here, to know, Mr Becic, that in the day of the vote, when they vote in favour of the bill as a whole, they will also vote in favour of these two amendments of the People's MPs of the New Party. We have noticed, gentlemen, that in the position of Article 1 5. The bill of law, Mr. Becic, there's one pile of words, unnecessarily. Here, we have an extra word and we have decided to propose to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Verbic, Mrs Lužanin, Mr. Shuvakov, who sits here, to erase those words that are too high, respected gentlemen, and that only one word remains in attitude 1. Of course, a reasonable man, when faced with this proposal, accepts a reasonable proposal and therefore this amendment is accepted. I believe that for this amendment, it is good to send a message to publishers that when they prepare additional teaching tools, manuals, textbooks, they must, of course, take care of the content of the textbook, Minister Verbić, about the quality of the textbooks, but make sure that the textbooks they prepare on any page have no such accumulation of words. That's not the case now, gentlemen, that we all have to deal with it a little bit. Of course, to send a message to Mr. Orlic, to pay attention to these mistakes that come from the government, and not just to deal with the work of opposition MPs here, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34949	Time. I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. It is my request that you do not mention other MPs in the presentation of your amendments. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Dialogue, Mr. Becic, in the Assembly. Debate, make the laws the best. I expect you, dear professor, to speak professionally about amendments, not to give political speeches and to spoil this quality debate. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Accepted Amendment, Mr Becic, and to Article 7) The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34950	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We won't, of course, spoil this debate, although I heard yesterday in my absence there were complaints to the president of the parliamentary group why we're trying to help our classmates on the opposite side of the hall. The reason is, I mean, more than clear and that's not the reason for any anger. We all work together to make the legal texts the best possible, so where we need to support whoever submitted the proposal, and where necessary, whoever proposed a correction or any amendment. Otherwise, as for some of the interventions on our part on the amendments coming from the other side of the hall, I assure my colleagues, we, whenever we are forced to intervene in this way, it hurts a lot more than anyone who proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34951	Thank you. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Did you get this, Mr. Pavicevic? Didn't you explain this amendment in the previous amendment? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I have the right to two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34952	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Becic, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honored Ministers Verbić and distinguished guests and Mr. Shuvakov of the Ministry, has been accepted to inform the MPs and I, Mr. Becic, as an amendment to Article 7, where we have one small difference, Mr. Becic, compared to Article 5, so it was necessary to report this time after the amendment. In Article 5, we had a build-up of certain words, and in Article 7, something was forgotten to put, like a single sign of an interruption, for example, but we also have an ally of extras. Mr. Becic, I still have to say here. I agree with what is on this amendment is necessary, since Mr Orlic has mentioned our amendment, and he is right. He should intervene for the mistakes that come from this side. Mr. Becicu, our primary role is to always respond to the mistakes that come from the executive authority of the people who appear on behalf of the executive authority. We must never miss this role, we must never ignore it, and Mr Becic, Mr Orlic completely ignores the role and instead of dealing with the corrections made by Minister Verbic or other ministers, members of the government or the Prime Minister, Mr Orlic has defined as his central role here by dealing with amendments coming from the opposition. Let him do it, I'm in agreement, but don't let him forget what's primary, because we are Mr. Eagle's legislative body. We have to control these people and Minister Verbic and Mr. Shuvakov and other members of the government and the Prime Minister whenever they're wrong, well, sometimes when they're weak enough to point out to them, that we don't miss respected gentlemen here in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34953	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Dear Professor, I must now note that you are wrong. As the SNS parliamentary group proposes very high quality amendments, these amendments were accepted at least 95%.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34954	But Orlic doesn't intervene on these government mistakes, ever. Here, not today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34955	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34956	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the good faith that this will help the quality of today's debate, I call on the amendment promoter to take a good look at the list of all amendments tabled on this text of the law. To find among them those in which we acted exactly the way he suggested, so when he found out that he missed something in the analysis to honestly say that this time and unfortunately not only this time, but hopefully in the good faith, he made the last mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34957	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. The word has a folk letter from Sabina Dazdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34958	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, moving from the principle of equal access to textbooks, manuals and teaching materials to all who attend classes in the Republic of Serbia, who are declared by this bill and have in mind a fact relating to the socio-material position of members of national minorities, but also to the number of students who attend teaching in the language of national minorities, this amendment further strengthens this bill and contributes to the positive effects that will be achieved by applying it in practice. This amendment lays down a mechanism to provide funding, i.e. co-financing for the acquisition of textbooks and for students attending classes in the languages of national minorities, which gives the Republic of Serbia concrete encouragement to members of the National Minorities and supports them to exercise their constitutional rights guaranteed. In this way, i.e. this amendment ensures that the National Council of National Minorities is provided with participation in the decision-making process in this segment of education, which is of particular importance to national minorities. The change in Article 1 shall be related to the proposal for a change in Article 9(2). The bill also allows students attending courses in the languages of national minorities to be treated as a special group because of their specificity, but also because of the inclusion of national councils of minorities in the decision-making process concerning the funding, i.e. the co-financing of textbooks, manuals and teaching materials. The proposed amendment in paragraph 4 of this Article shall follow the solution proposed in paragraph 2 of this Article. I would also like to point out here, that is, to ask Mr. Minister to accept our amendment and the Members of the People's Parliament because this is about an amendment directly affecting the education of national minorities and that national councils and national minorities, i.e. representatives of national minorities, are legitimate representatives. I'd like to tell you here, that we know better what's good for national minorities than anyone else would. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34959	Thank you, Mrs. Dazadarevic. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34960	I also ask the minister to take another look at this amendment. I also told the Education Committee that this word "can" means that it does not have to, that it is sometimes a good will of you ministers or of some minister who will come after you, perhaps it will not be the case, that it simply does not say in which case the ministry, the minister can decide on the financing of the preparation or acquisition of these textbooks in the languages of national minorities or for students, children with disabilities in development. I simply think that this should change, and if the National Council already has its powers and decides that the Ministry is funding some textbook or preparing that simple minister should, and that there should be no more sentences – it can or must not, but rather stand a sentence – makes a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34961	The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34962	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the government is absolutely right to reject this amendment, because we forget, or should not forget that a political note is being passed through these amendments, where national communities and national minorities are favored at the expense of the majority people. Because what does that mean? In this case, if we are obliged to follow the advice of national minorities and that textbooks are co-financed in this case, this is an inequality compared to others, the majority people. If the Government will finance where it considers that the environment is socially endangered or that there are socially or materially endangered students in that case, the Government will also bring these textbooks to the press whether they are national minorities or they are representatives of the majority people. In any case, we must respect equality because if we accept this amendment, we place the students of the Serbian people in an unequal position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34963	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34964	There is no way we can agree with the conclusion that the adoption of this amendment can lead to an unequal position for the pupils of the majority of the people for the reason that Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 76 The constitution provides for special measures in cases where national minority rights should be equalised in some area. When we talk about textbooks, the situation is completely abnormal in certain minorities. If you have a high school for which there is no textbook, so you apply special measures you cannot possibly say that it goes to the expense of the students of the majority people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34965	Thank you. National MPs Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic together submitted the 9th amendment. The word is from the MP of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Thank you. National MPs Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic together submitted the 9th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34967	Thank you, Mr. Becic, dear Minister Verbić, with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, during the debate in principle, I was crystal clear that one of the biggest shifts that this new version of the Law made is the availability of textbooks, unlike the previous version, where it was very undefined, confusingly, here it is clearly stated for all categories, whether these are socio-material conditions, whether they are students with special needs or students of national minorities, everything is crystal clear. I think it would be very important for the first position to be completed, I would ask the co-workers of Minister Verbic to read the first position carefully. In this first attitude absolutely hangs the subfinancing of purchases. In all the views of this member of the procurement and assignment are tied up. So there were two options to correct the tab, but also to specify this attitude, which is to add the assignment with the purchase. That would be a repeat, so we put in funding and co-financing for purchases and assignments. So when it comes to this category of students, absolutely, please, appeal to look at it, it's at first glance of the language itself, but it's very important. When it comes to the following attitudes, it means there is a possibility and preparation, so there goes preparation and or procurement and assignment. So there's no procurement without an assignment. In other words, the 4th position was, or 5th said, point 2: the conditions of the criteria on which the student, i.e. the student, is entitled to finance, i.e. the co-financing. So, and the explanation, I'm going to have to choose the words, the explanation is that the proposer, that funding, when you buy the textbooks in a 100% amount, and the co-financing when only a fraction of the costs are compensated. Please take another look, so an extraordinary member. One of the key shifts you have made and only this linguistic reformation has been further refined and this would be a major contribution to this member. There's no procurement without an assignment, it's just gone wrong, and here I am pointing to this tiny mistake and calling for it to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34968	Thank you, Mr. Stojadinovic. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go, Mrs. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34969	Article 9 is extremely important, relating to funding textbooks with funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, in order for textbooks to be available to all students, and this member points to students and families from socio-materially endangered families. However, I think there is an important difference here in the way in which budget funding is made. Funding involves purchasing, i.e. buying these textbooks, and co-financing involves making up for some, but not all parts to make the textbooks available. This compensation may include the preparation and printing of textbooks. I think only for those reasons is the proposal to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34970	Thank you. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) You're saying something to Mr. Stojadinovic.. Please don't communicate that way. National MPs Anamarija Vicek, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Becic, the Honorable Minister Verbić and the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, we National MPs of the NS have also submitted an amendment to Article 10 concerning the use of language and letter. We feel that one word should still be added to point 1. Let me try to explain here. It reads very clearly in attitude 1: textbook, manual and teaching material additional teaching tool, didactically and inactively played means to be printed in Serbian and Cyrillic letters. All right, we just think it's possible to imagine certain situations, contained perhaps in some textbooks where only use in some small part and other languages and letters is necessary, when it happens that the content requires it. We are explained here that it is not possible to accept this amendment because internationally adopted labels and measures are standardised, and that regardless of the language the textbook is written in the same way. But we didn't think of those measures that were standardised, those units, but it seems to us that sometimes in some textbook, which isn't even about professional subjects, for example in the professional and artistic schools to which the position of the 2nd member of the bill applies, that it is possible to imagine the need of the author to explain something further, explain, and that this requires the use of another language, some words. Then it seemed to us that we should leave it, as a possibility in the bill, that, perhaps some kind of innovation in the author should not be automatically prevented by such a content of the law. If there's an explanation, I'd be happy to listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34972	I thank Dr Pavicevic. The 11th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34973	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ministers of Verbić and the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11, and Mr. Zoran Zivkovic has submitted a second amendment to this same member, because it seems to us now that he is worthy of our attention and we have received answers. My amendment to Article 11, Mr. Becic was not accepted, but he was accepted as much as I understood the amendment, and not mine was accepted, and Mr. Zivkovic's amendment was not accepted. What's the difference? Article 11 concerns equal opportunities and prohibitions of discrimination. We have tried in these two amendments to give one direction to the minister that it would be desirable, that when we talk about a ban on discrimination, we always define in the contents of one attitude the maximum, precise definition of what it is. That amendment has not been accepted, but it has been accepted an amendment to Article 11 concerning a supplement which we have noticed here that it is not sufficient. Namely, in point 1: the textbook, manual and teaching material, the electronic supplement with the textbook, is missing “stuck”, and we added it - an additional teaching tool that didactically and inactively play by its content and shape should enable the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities. I believe that, indeed, it was quite reasonable to accept this amendment, it concerns the lack of a sign of interpretation and I am sorry that this article, for example, Mr Orlic did not submit an amendment, and I agree and there is a clear agreement here that he has submitted amendments that are linguistically on the proposal for a law that defends Minister Verbic and which are, necessarily, accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34974	I thank Dr Pavicevic. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 11th amendment. The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34975	With this amendment, we wanted to provide a mechanism to ensure that there is no content in textbooks, manuals, teaching materials, teaching tools and didactic means, i.e. forms that offend national and religious feelings of members of national minorities. It is widely known that the ethnic distance in Serbia towards minorities is quite large, and that in the first place there are Albanians and Bosniaks, so in this way we wanted to remove any possibility of strengthening that distance. Of course, we also wanted to provide equal opportunities and the same conditions for all students in this way. Although we are not listed in the written explanation of the amendments, it is understood that the equal opportunities must not be subject to the requirements for paying for electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34976	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34977	Just in case the amendment promoter didn't notice. There is a reason that we have received from the Government very explicitly stated that any intervention in this direction is excessive, because there is an anti-criminal clause in the text of the law itself, and it is directly related to the recommendations received by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, where the law governing the prohibition of discrimination is addressed, as a standard that is understood, and we do not have to spend words on it and without being attached to the standard, which is certainly good. Practice and life in Serbia say we don't have problems like this. If we're going to stick to the purely formal needs to be established by law, it's done in the best possible way, and I think so too, the Commissioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34978	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34979	I would just add that the amendment had this logic and general need to point to the existing, very drastic problem of lack of textbooks, when it comes to teaching in Albanian, somewhere in half the subjects of basic education. We're somewhere on 50% secure textbooks and manuals, and the rest still stands unsolved. Imagine, we haven't had that kind of problem in a while. I was head of school, high school, and there was no such problem 20 years ago, and now we have it in primary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34980	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34981	I can use the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34982	Unfortunately, Mr. Halimi, you only had 25 seconds, but I didn't want to interrupt. I have to warn you, you don't have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34983	You mean the time group or the deputy...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34984	Let me just explain. Group time's up. You only have time authorized, but unfortunately that time cannot be used, because there is your head of Parliament. He's the only one who can use that time. We have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. The fact that I didn't want to interrupt you for 25 seconds is that it's no problem for you to talk, but we just have to find a formal possibility for you to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34985	Can I go on now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34986	If you say you can, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34987	Thank you. So the idea of that is to point out this need to create equal opportunities because of this current, in me, unsustainable, catastrophic situation when in elementary school we fail to provide half of the textbooks and manuals in Albanian. The same situation is true in schools in Sandzak in Bosniak. In high school, we have, in the light of the bill's proposal, that the situation in general is very difficult, that the textbooks are still in use over 20 years of age, that they do not correspond to the current moment, do not correspond to social, economic, pedagogical development, but in many cases there are no such textbooks... (Predrag Mijatovic, from the post: After the amendment? ) The amendment is precisely what it says to create equal opportunities...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34988	Mr. Mijatovic, don't throw, you have no right to throw.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34989	... in the educational-experienced process. There is a sense of the amendment that the current situation requires additional efforts, including strengthening the provisions of the law to speed up, speed up, to make the process more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34990	I thank you, Mr. Halimi. If you'll excuse me, it's not enough for Mr. Carbonin to draw a card and we think he's not here, but I've had the understanding that you rarely violate the Rules of Procedure, so I let you speak. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34991	Article 106. I think all MPs are obliged to stick to the subject. In this case, Mr. Halimi took the opportunity to talk about something that wasn't the subject of the amendment. The theme of the amendment is, you're supposed to interrupt it, whether there's no insult to national minorities, which is quite all right. Mr. Orlic explained that it was already contained in the law, 37. It means that no textbook can contain anything offensive to national communities. It was meant to be spoken of, not about whether or not there were textbooks. That can be said in another amendment. Secondly, this was one funny game that Suleiman Ugljanin was not there, except he stuck his head in the sand. I pulled my card out of the MP's unit. Thank you very much. (Ennis Imamovic, from the place: What is this? [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34992	Mr. Mijatovic, first you didn't... (Enis Imamovic, from the place: What applause? It's a shame. Mr. Imamovic, please allow me. Mr. Mijatovic, first you did not call on a member of the Rules of Procedure... (Predrag Mijatovic, from the place: Yes. Article 106.) I'm sorry, I didn't hear. If you speak quietly or step away from the microphone, then we don't hear any words spoken here. You tried to break the Rules of Procedure to talk about the replica, but it's your right, and I, as chairman, didn't have the opportunity to stop you from doing that. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34993	Reaction to the last explanation of the applicant's representative. This discussion we heard was not about the text of the amendment. And I have to notice that, because what was going on here, when the interpretation of the amendment started, is a possible problem with the level of definition of that anti-criminal clause that I was talking about. So first, I would like to call on us to deal with what the amendment predicts and to do it correctly. Since we were able to hear another principled explanation, it would be fair, at the very least, that whenever we hear the next time, if we were to discuss the problem of the availability of textbooks in the languages of national minorities, then we would say a word about how this is changed by this law, whether some things are being solved, and we have heard from many here that this is exactly what is happening and that there are good answers and the question of availability, but also everything else that we have heard in a very principled discussion a little bit before, and this is exactly this bill. Of course, I join in taking this debate seriously, as it is appropriate, not to violate the Rules of Procedure, because it is known that some of the behaviors that we had had the opportunity to see earlier have not been tolerated here before by anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34994	You must understand that we as chairman, especially when it comes to minority issues are not ready to engage in the debate, but you must do so as MPs. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34995	Compared to these last statements, I have to add, they haven't read our amendment, because our third amendment has two positions, item 3 and item 4. In the fourth position, the provision of textbooks and teaching materials, additional teaching tools and didactic and practical game resources and a manual for teachers who are used in educational education work in all languages and letters on which education and training work is performed and performed under the same conditions and application of the principles of equal opportunities. I was talking about this, that we have a problem with a huge lack of textbooks and manuals and other teaching tools, and I pointed out in this very context that in such an exceptional situation special measures are needed, and in this style, Mr. Cambery and I just explained it further. I think this is the point, if we really want to be honest about this problem to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34996	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34997	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, another round. I would ask the representatives of the motion that if they want us to do this really to the end and how they should read the complete amendment proposal, complete not just one piece, but then read the answer that we got from the government, so let's go back to what we said to each other here today. So let's do this right, nothing more. If you look at a complete amendment proposal, you'll see what's in it disputed and what is referred to in the government's opinion, what we've been reacting to here. That's it. More honestly, I don't think he can.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34998	Thank you. National MPs Anamarija Vicek, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u34999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Vice President, Mr. Becic, our distinguished guests, Lužanin and Mujagic, and Mr. Shuvakov, we have submitted an amendment to Article 12, an important amendment. He's not accepted. And I'm going to read again here as our proposed text reads. We believe that Article 12 of Article 5 should write a new attitude of 6 which should read – the publishing of textbooks, manuals and teaching materials, the additional teaching means, the didactic and doactive game assets are carried out with, respected gentlemen, full respect for the principles of academic integrity. We have then explained in reason, gentlemen, that academic honesty concerns the independent production of written works and strict respect for other people's copyrights, and that plagiarism is the most severe violation of academic integrity. So we have suggested that when we talk about textbooks, when we talk about manuals, there should be no plagiarism, gentlemen, and that, therefore, in this attitude, there must be a principle of academic integrity. Minister Verbic answered us that - the concept of academic honesty is not defined by any regulation and can be interpreted very differently, and then I answer to Minister Verbic, if the concept, or the principle of academic integrity, is not defined by one regulation, why does the Government refuse to discuss our proposal to amend the Law on Higher Education, which we suggest that academic integrity be the principle defined precisely by a certain member of the Law on Higher Education? Then Mr. Atlagic calls this morning for academic honesty, not voting for the bill, gentlemen. Well, what kind of inconsistencies is that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35000	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Just for the sake of accurate information - the government is not refusing anything, the MPs have not yet put your proposal on the agenda. So they didn't vote to put the proposal in. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic from the post: It says the government has not accepted academic honesty. ) The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35001	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is in line with those silly amendments we wanted to avoid when we called for a serious debate today. So, to all of us who have been meeting here, for more than a year it's more than clear that this is about the coin that I've come up with, I've been proposing this amendment in some other opportunity to deal with it since then, but if we're going to do this precisely and correctly as it should be, because it's legal matter, we can't call on something as a principle, which is undefined and from the legal point of view doesn't mean anything. If anything, but whatever words we choose, now might be an accident of academic honesty, tomorrow we're going to put something else legally undefined, adopted as some criterion that needs to be met, as some principle that needs to be respected, how are we going to deal with it tomorrow? How will we take care of whether what has been introduced as a legal obligation is respected or not? So this is a purely logical and legal issue and it's very clear to the amendment promoter as well as to the rest of us why this can't be adopted. If it didn't come down to a mere opportunity for today's number of times we'd like to show up to use time on television, I'd ask the promoter of this amendment, but this is the most serious and correct thing we can do, that this and everything else that is proposed in the same way, skip out today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35002	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. I don't think the words - the funny amendment is enough for a replica. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Television. There's no TV. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to the 12th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mijatović, Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinkovic, Vesna Besarović, Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The word has a folk emissary of Milena Bycanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35003	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the ministry, the SDPS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 13 concerning the textbook's plan and in paragraph 3 it is said that the textbook's plan defines the composition of the textbook's set. We have learned what the training set from Article 2 is, making sure that each component of the textbook set is a necessary condition for achieving the goal and that in the end each component makes a coherent overall. I am responsible for the reason that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the meaning of the word consistently implies that all components of the textbook set are linked. That's quite clear. It's a decades-long experience of the education system. The textbook calls for plan and program and the textbook is consistent in that sense, as I understand it, to plan and program, which means that I cannot teach the history of the fifth grade with the content of the sixth grade, nor can I, in addition to the fifth grade textbook, use the history textbook for the sixth grade, and that would refer to the term "conherence". The following reasons are given – Article 12 paragraph 5 is therefore also proposed that, if the course textbook plan provides for a teaching set of attitudes, it is mandatory to apply at the same time for the approval of all components of the textbook set and an electronic supplement if it contains it. This second part of the text refers simply to the publisher's procedures when he wants to make a public call and hand over his manuscripts to the grade, etc. I just think, we had experience in the discussion from about a few minutes ago and a little longer that the amendment was adopted on Article 2, now we have the content, where it is said that it is then stuck and words are added – encouraging creative thinking, improving functional knowledge. It won't be enough to provide us with the training kit and what we've been looking forward to now if the training kit only provides a consistent integrity of content. He must correspond in each component, especially because one publisher will write a book, and the other will create a work book. As a matter of principle, as a requirement for education in terms of creating functional knowledge, these components must provide objectives, outcomes and standards, of course, in the Law on the Fundamentals of System and Education. Here, I'll just read you the keywords by the attitudes. So, full of intellectual emotional development, so it says -- the development, in the second is acquisition, in the third is the development of creative ability, in the fourth is the development of the ability to find, to train, to develop motivation. So how are we going to achieve all these goals if the training set just makes us coherent? It won't be enough, it won't be stimulating enough. It won't empower a teacher enough to look for the best methods of realising the content, because, don't forget, the child stays at home only with the textbook, stays only with some addition that serves him for education. There should also be a change at home, which he will check and improve in collaboration with the teacher the next day. That's our goal. So, I'd like to ask you, if anything, for a comment. If I don't understand, I really want to understand because of some further thinking, but I don't think it's insurmountable and I think it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35004	I thank you, Mrs. Bicanin. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35005	Thank you. Our wish and idea is to ensure this amendment that national councils of national minorities at least partially exercise their right to self-government in the field of education, as provided for by the Constitution of this country in Article 75 and the Law on National Councils in its Article 2. We have proposed that the right to propose a textbook plan in the language of the national minority be granted exclusively to the national councils of national minorities, and the adoption of this plan remains in the jurisdiction of the Institute. Why is this important? We choose the national councils of national minorities to do the job. In the Constitution and in the laws of this state, we have granted them some powers which are not respected on the ground and national councils in fact, we see from all these legal provisions, exist only on paper. If anyone asks for national minorities from outside, we say that there are national councils of national minorities, and in fact we take away their role by any law we make here. In practice, we also have minority MPs here telling you how to improve the laws you bring from the aspect of the people we represent here. Both of these and other laws concerning national minorities, you make no matter what they say about what the minority MPs tell you about it through amendments and through debate. So the question here is that you literally impose on national communities the solutions most people want, and that their legitimate representatives in this house absolutely do not realize 2%.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35006	Time, thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35007	Thank you. It's certainly for everything that's going on here, motive for good quality and legal system. If the amendment promoter has any objection to the explanation we have heard, which speaks of problems of discrepancies with other laws, it would be good to have it as an assessment, because it certainly makes sense to comment. On my part, I'm still adding that it shouldn't be adopted because of spelling mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35008	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35009	As MEPs, we have given ten amendments to the Bookbooks Act. Our goal is to remove essential problems in minority education. Our Assembly, which has 250 MPs, has among those 250 members of a minority parliamentary group composed of legitimate representatives of the Albanians of the Presevo Valley and legitimate representatives of the Bosniak Sandzak. What does the selection of minority representatives mean? It means that minorities have the right to vote in this House to indicate their wishes, needs and problems. If this parliament, i.e. the government and the competent ministers aim to hear the opinion of minorities, they have an opportunity. If we start from the point of view of voting, then there's no need to talk about it. So if we have a common goal of enabling the education of minorities in their native language, in this sense you have our concrete suggestions. But if, for formal reasons, all ten amendments continue to be rejected, it is too high to have legitimate representatives of minorities staying here. As you know, we had a case last year at the so-called. The Committee on Minority Rights, which we left because of these formal voting, misunderstandings for minorities and non-respecting the interests of minorities. As you know, representatives of the minority SDA parliamentary group Sandzak PDD left the Committee on 16 January this year and did not participate in the work of that body, which really does everything to degrade minorities and to prevent the exercise of minority rights. In that context is the rejection of all of our ten amendments. So if the aim of this Assembly is to find the best solutions for all people living in this Republic, if we have an interest in joining the EU, if we have an interest in allowing minorities what is guaranteed by the Constitution and the law, I think it was necessary to seriously consider the proposals of our ten amendments and adopt them. Since it's all been rejected, I can say that I have no intention of using rude words, bold words, and we have no intention of playing with insults and overrulings. So I ask the MPs that, in the interest of all the citizens of Serbia and our European path, they respect the interests of minorities, to keep their words and not to deal with formal matters anymore, but to deal with the essentials. I can tell you, on behalf of the minority parliamentary group, which consists of legitimately elected representatives of the Albanians of the Presevo Valley and the legitimately elected representatives of the Bosniak Sandzak elected on the minority list, if these amendments are rejected, we will vote against the adoption of this law in the Election Day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35010	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35011	Thank you. I just want to draw attention to the fact that if we were to adopt this amendment, it would be in conflict with the roof law, that is, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. We know that this law has been a public debate, that it is over and I hope in the near future that we will have this law here in the Assembly, that we will debate it. We know that this law has been a public debate, that it is over, and I hope that in the near future we will have that law here in the Assembly and we will debate it. As for the textbook for national minorities, I believe that Article 13(6) speaks enough at the moment. It is my opinion that this law has come to the support of all stakeholders, including national minorities, where a major step has been made to the availability of textbooks to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35012	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Anamarija Vicek, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a national emissary, Anamaria Vicek.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35013	Thank you. I'll use the MP's time. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would only like to briefly refer to this accepted amendment, i.e. to say a few words about amendments accepted by the Ministry. Namely, the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians submitted a total of seven amendments, of which four amendments were accepted. I would like to conclude that some of our amendments have been so good that the MPs of the other parliamentary groups from words to words, in the same text, have also submitted it, which only proves that our amendments were good and with the best intention of making this law as perfect as possible. In this amendment relating to Article 14, we added that the textbook plan should include both the language and the letter on which the textbook is printed, which is extremely important for the ministry to appear in a later period, when a competition for the publishing of textbooks appears, to know exactly which textbooks in the languages of the national minorities should be... I thank you, because it's extremely hard to talk past this kind of noise. But let's get back to the subject. It is extremely important for us that we did not ask for more than the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees, i.e. what is written in the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, we were just trying to bring these laws into line and that what is written in the Law on National Minority Councils from word to word will also be transferred to the Law on textbooks, which is now this way and done. So, from word to word, this is exactly how the Law on textbooks, as is the Law on National Minority Councils. Just one more addendum. Our fourth amendment relating to 42, criminal provisions, is that a textbook that is a translation of textbooks approved in Serbian cannot be more expensive than the original from which it is translated, which is extremely important precisely because it creates absolutely the same conditions for members of national minorities, which is extremely important. Because we all know that the costs of translation textbooks are higher, of course, because of translation, but we don't think it should be felt by citizens who use textbooks in the languages of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35014	The amendment we discussed has been corrected, fellow Stojadinovic. Everyone's got that amendment. And the minister got it. Just for the record, I'm asking the Minister if he accepts the amendment as corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35015	I'll take it. Thank you. So the amendment is accepted. ‘Article 2(1), following the words ‘valued positions’, is inserted and the words ‘encouraging critical thinking and improving functional knowledge’ are added. “ Thank you. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The word has been made by the MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35016	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens, colleagues and I have submitted an amendment to delete, in Article 14 paragraph 1, point 4, the point that says that the textbook plan also contains a maximum number of pages, i.e. the volume of textbooks. We see that Article 2 paragraph 1 already correctly defined that the content of the textbooks is established by national plan and programme and that the number of pages of textbooks depends exactly on the national programme and this should not be prescribed by law, this kind of restriction. It is certainly not the subject of a textbook's plan, as it says in this article, but the standard of quality of textbooks, which is a sublegal act. It is clear to us that 15% of students have problems with the deformity of the spinal column, and since we know that the weight of the student bag is between 3.5 kilograms for first grade pupils up to and including eight kilograms for eighth grade students, but we also believe that this is not resolved in this way, but is solved by regulation in the quality of textbooks, less grammar of paper on which the textbooks are printed or, let's say, by prescribing that the lower classes of textbooks must be physically divided into several parts. Also, it is clear to us that your need for textbooks not to be burdened with unnecessary content in these textbooks, but we still find it entirely inappropriate to limit the number of pages of a textbook. In Article 102. The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System is designed to determine whether the textbook meets the quality standards relating to content, pedagogical and psychological requirements, didactic and methodical processing, as well as language requirements and the design of graphic and technical equipment of textbooks, or whether it provides for the achievement of the principles and objectives of education and standards of achievement. As you might have noticed, there is no mention of the size, or number of pages of a textbook. This concludes that the legislator has placed an accent on the quality and content of the textbooks and that any limitation of the number of parties, as set out in this Bill, would be precisely an act contrary to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System. In an explanation for the refusal of our amendment, you wrote the following – that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 14(1) of the Law stipulates that the textbook's plan contains the recommended number of pages, i.e. the volume of textbooks, rather than that it prescribes a restriction on the number of pages, as stated in our explanation of the amendment. So I would ask you, have you ever read the proposal of this law that lies before us today, because, behold, I have just read which attitude we wish to erase and which point, that the textbook's plan does not contain a maximum number of sides. You yourself wrote in the light of the proposal for this law that the paper in relation to the applicable law establishing the maximum number of pages, i.e. the volume of textbooks and that the objective of limiting the number of pages, i.e. the volume of textbooks, is to avoid burdening the textbooks with unnecessary and excessive content and that, possibly, any additional content is included in electronic or other form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35017	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35018	Thank you, Madam President. We are not changing the text of the reasoning of the bill, but the text of the legislative proposal. So, unrelated to what's in the explanation, what does it say here in point 4, for which a change is recommended? The recommended number of pages. I answered first of all because of those words – a flat-rate number of pages, which we had just heard in oral reasoning. There's no limit here, not even a cobweb. This is the recommended page number. In the principle debate, we heard what his purpose was. It should be an indication of the extent to which, among other things, it will determine the price. But it's not an explicit restriction at all, no one's going to stop anyone who does the printing textbook from finding that it's costing him economically to do it on better quality paper and somehow getting it in grammar, to do it. It is his to comply with all those standards that are considered good demands, with the aspect of quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35019	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 18.00 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The amendment was submitted to Article 14 by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 15th amendment. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers Verbić and the Honorable Guests, Mrs Lužanin, Mrs Mujagic and Mr Shuvakov, is a three-layered argument to our amendment to Article 15. It's a bill of law. First of all, Minister Verbić, since this member is concerned with the quality of textbooks, we felt that the 1st attitude was enough to write – to achieve quality education and education. It seemed to us in part two, Minister Verbić, that this word, the adult, should be replaced by the words – the students, so that the text of this position, this member of the bill, would be in line with the bill in full. Of course, the third part of our argument for amendment to Article 15 concerns that great principle I mentioned earlier, relating to Article 12. The bill of law, which is the principle, Mr. Verbic, academic congratulation. For which some MPs here, such as Mr. Orlic, for example, science doctors, say it's a funny principle, they associate it with television broadcasts, etc. Mr. Atlagic, he calls on that principle, but he does not respect it when it is necessary to vote for it. Here, I'm going to say here, gentlemen, once again, I need it, that the principle of academic integrity, implies that we respect other people's copyrights and that we write our own papers. Dear gentlemen, that is the third part of the argument for this amendment. The most difficult form is the violation of academic honesty is plagiarism, so I hope we won't be able to pass when we talk about the standards of quality textbooks, respected gentlemen and Mr Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35021	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35022	Thank you, Madam President. I would call on him not to adopt himself for reasons, which, as far as I can see, the promoter himself is not too interested in the amendment, since he was talking about other things, not the amendment itself. I'm looking at the amendment here, I'm talking about an amendment to article 15, right? Now I'm trying to find those words in it -- academicity and honesty, and I'm failing at all. So, if he wasn't talking about the amendment, I can conclude that the proposaler is not very interested, but it's purely precision. This was a funny explanation, just like I just said, that something was a funny amendment, not a funny principle or something. I'd like to ask you one more time to get this debate serious if possible, so let's talk about things technically, correctly and professionally. As much as I point it to anyone on the opposite side of the hall, so does we. I would never allow myself, ladies and gentlemen, to make up my own term and then try to make a good display of it for the camera. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35023	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35024	Dear President, I agree with Mr. Orlic that we should reject this amendment for several reasons. First of all, for the simple reason that the term of education applies not to good quality, does not apply to bad. It's common in pedagogy. So for that reason and as far as this academic honesty is concerned, it's really become a joke, with the fact that it's one of the basic characteristics of every university professor and every educator. In the studies of pedagogy at philosophy universities, as well as other groups, as well as a group of which the previous speaker also studied in the joint programming bases of pedagoggy is a character of teachers. The first teaching unit in college...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35025	MP, you need to talk about the amendment. Orlic asked us to come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35026	Here's to the amendment. It's really been brought in and I'm getting in touch with the amendment. The first teaching unit is academic congratulation, and in the dictionary – often it means morally clean, and for every educator, it is said in the pedagogy that he must be morally clean. And in the statutes, so college statutes stand, that's one of the basic principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35027	Thank you. There's been a lot of discussion about the non-alignment. Now we'll move on. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. You don't have a legal replica. We know what's gonna happen then. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic submitted to the 16th amendment. The word is from the MP of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35028	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Dear Minister Verbić and his associates, our idea, as I said in the principle debate, was to allow this cycle to be shortened in order to in some way not only increase the quality of innovation, but also to relieve commissions, assessors and so on. You have prepared an explanation that you are partially convincing me, I can accept, that this is not impossible for a new edition to be inoculated during that period of four years. So despite the fact that I think it's better if this call is made every year, it could be acceptable. I'd like to point out something about this second attitude that we've criticised and suggested a solution. You had, that is, in the phase of public discussion and public listening to the same remark on the one hand, publishers and on the other hand from the European Parliament, more specifically from the EU. In both cases, they were said to be favoured public publishers. The idea for this amendment and at all for discussion was that I absolutely disagree that such a legal solution favored publishers owned by the state. On the contrary, I believe that if no one will do anything that is not profitable, let's let the publishing office do it. I have to admit that by solving the law where those 2% of the bills and so on stand out for those purposes, that problem is solved, so it's no tragedy that this amendment to this article is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35029	The word is Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35030	Thank you. I think that if this change was just approved for four years, it was especially good for me, and I think that if we had adopted this amendment, it would be contrary to this law at all. Why for four years? I'll make three arguments. Let's say, because if we choose textbooks for four years, then we have a great opportunity to inherit these textbooks, which is a great peace for us and for our educators and for our parents, and of course, above all for students, because today we bring this law primarily for students. They're a subject of educational education. Why else? Because it's logical. The school program in schools is being brought to exactly four years. That makes it logical that we choose textbooks for four years. What I have to say is, my fellow educators haven't made any remarks on this part, they're particularly looking forward to this part. But, as I must further point out, it is possible for this law to approve textbooks from each year, but then the approved textbook enters the list of additional curricula, if of course the publisher agrees. With this, I propose to all MPs that we do not accept this amendment in order to have a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35031	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35032	Thank you, Madam President. We have made it very clear that the proposed solution, that every fourth year a public call for the approval of textbooks, adds - that in the event of teaching in minority languages, it remains for every school year, again for reasons that we have already started to elaborate here, to explain, because of, I say, a very difficult, impossible situation, the lack of a vast number of half the elementary school textbooks. Not a single textbook in high school. The situation is dramatic. I understand here most MPs don't know the issue, and it would be fair if they didn't answer if they didn't already know the situation. But, Mr. Minister, you know very well what our situation is. She's dramatic, dramatically difficult, and I can't accept these arguments given here. And through Article 12(2), Article 20(6), Article 33 paragraph 10 and that transitional provision 47. Because what? It's all about making a commitment to the publisher. If so far the Ministry of Competence, which has been 20 years old, has not solved this problem, I think it is illusory to expect that through the night in the publication of the textbook contest, the publishers will solve this problem. That would be me, as if we were going through a magic wand. Because the problem is serious, it can't be solved in a year, it can't be solved in four years, and if we're limiting ourselves in this way, so, the Ministry in this way, this proposal, and the Government, this proposal, although adopted here by the Assembly, we absolutely limit ourselves, we're making it impossible for this problem to be solved more quickly and efficiently. Here's the point. I'd like someone to convince me, but what's offered in an explanation, knowing the practice, I'm sure that approach isn't serious. And it doesn't stand, and then we're going to create far bigger problems for minority schools and where they have this problem that I, and I know best the problem of Albanians in Presevo, Bujanovac, Bear and, I'd like to ask that you have far more sensitivity, feelings, that we don't create our own problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35033	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35034	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I just want to clarify that by shortening these, or calling on publishers to report to the competition every year, nothing would be won, because this problem of missing textbooks already has its own solution. In Article 47 of this proposal, the law states that a public call for applications for the approval of missing textbooks and manuals shall be made within one month of the date of entry into force of the sublegal acts. Which means, when we bring this in, we'll be able to immediately discuss the competition for missing textbooks, and unless a single publisher answers a public call and there's a solution. In that case, it is up to the state publisher to do exactly that job. Therefore, the solution to this problem exists, and the launch of competitions every year of a public call would not actually solve anything. On the contrary, we'd just be wasting the human resources we have to be economical with right now. So we have to with those resources that we have most economical to have, and the solution to the problem of missing textbooks exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35035	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35036	Just for a little while. We'd be most happy to have this problem over 20 years of age solved through these procedures. Now, in the case of this, just take an example of an extra textbook. They can neither, within this time-limit, which the minister is now talking about, it is through Article 42, transitional provisions, that competitions will be published, advertisements published, but what if we do not have curricula and programmes, for here is of particular importance, for all subjects that are of particular importance to minorities, which are specific. And if it's not a prepared plan and program, you can publish in a month, two, three, that ad, but no publisher can solve the problem, he can't issue a textbook unless there's a curriculum and a program. That's one problem. But let's do what Col. Comic used to say, what are our translations? I'm afraid in this short time we won't provide any of the far-quality translations that deserve a textbook or manual, because it's not some material that goes for one session. If we don't make it within that time limit to solve all this, then what do we do? I'm afraid with a four-year deadline like this we'll block the unsustainable situation for four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35037	Minister Verbic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35038	Very short. So, the translation problem I know exists and that our translations are not the best quality. That's all we have to do in the right place. So we're not going to solve it by having a public call every year instead of four years, against it. So we're just going to spend a few of the human resources, or quality translators we have, multiple times. So this amendment certainly would not contribute to our quality of our translations. And we have to solve it another way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35039	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinkovic, Vesna Besarović, Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milena Bijanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35040	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, dear colleagues. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia has tabled an amendment to Article 16 and it is a member of the law concerning the list of textbooks and we have had, let me say, a different thought from the proposed content in paragraph 3 where it is said – time to prepare textbooks in the event of the adoption of a new curricula and programme cannot be shorter than 60 days. The explanation with which our proposed amendment text has been rejected, that the Ministry will publish a public call, taking care of the weather, because the Ministry certainly intends that the deadline for making textbooks will be long enough to enable the creation of a quality textbook. So no one's gonna doubt it, here's the first one I don't want to suspect, that whoever the minister is, he won't be taking care of the calendar of the activities that await him in the course of every year of his term. I will not doubt, either, that the Minister and the Ministry will intend to make the deadline for signing a public invitation long enough. Now I wonder – long enough from the point of view of whose experience? Is it from the experience of a commission that evaluates textbooks, whether from the point of view of our general practice, or from the point of view of those I think work too well in this member of the law, which are textbook writers, that's the authors? I'm afraid we've forgotten them. Minister, I'll tell you what it looked like when the textbooks' office was at the end of the 1990s, or 1998/1999. In the year, he came up with the idea that our education system was given to one of the most modern textbooks, it was about the textbooks with Nature and Society, that's what it was called. We started in first grade, the textbook set was a textbook, a work book, and a teacher's manual. The writing took two years. In the year 2000, the first edition, by 2003, goes in succession one at a time. In 2003, the plan and the programme changed. It's now called "the world around us". The program's changing. The textbook must be revised. The revised textbook by the author changes for two years, and it only comes out for school 2004/2005. A year. The author team won the Stojan Novakovic Award as the award-winning team for the most successful contemporary textbook of the year published in our publishing system in basic education. Standards of textbooks are introduced in 2009. It takes a year for everything to get back together again. The deadline of 60 days is truly extremely, extremely short. I understand that you say – he is minimal, but he is absolutely insufficient. The commission that is due to give an expert assessment has a 90-day period and you told us on vacation – yes, they will have very many textbooks and that is clear. They will have some specific skills that will pass through this training and become experts in the first and second classes. I guess that's how the assignments are going to be shared. They have 90 days, and the author who writes the textbook, when the plan and program change, has a minimum of 60. I don't think it's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35041	The word has Minister Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35042	Dear MPs, 60 days certainly isn't enough for someone to write a textbook from the beginning, or wait for a plan and a program to be published, so it's based on it. We sincerely hope that future textbooks will be prepared in accordance with the objectives and outcomes of education, and that they will depend less on what it says in the specific programme and what examples there, but will rely on goals and outcomes. Every textbook and every program should respect the already existing outcomes. So the outcomes will certainly be clear when someone starts thinking about writing textbooks and working on a new plan and program. It'll be the same outcome. The plan itself and the program shouldn't bring much interference. It's something you can really do within 60 days. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that writing deadlines are not the only deadline. So we have to do all the deadlines, and we have 19 different steps, starting from calling the public to approving the textbook, we have to fit all of that into 365 days. So there are several different deadlines that can be critical, but we certainly don't think that the author should wait for the plan and the program to be adopted, and then he starts writing a textbook. The textbook can be written much earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35043	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milena Bijanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35044	Minister, I really agree that the textbook can be done earlier. So, I can do some work back 20 years and make my notes and wait a moment, but the system can't rely on it. We can't count on some people now to be very imaginative, creative, very well-intentioned, to contribute to the system, to have extraordinary ideas, and now they've written something, expecting it to be a plan and a program to change, or not. Can they know exactly what direction they're going to change? It's not about writing textbooks just that there are outcomes and standards. It's clear to us, there are, let me say, orientations that are good because they exist and that should certainly be developed. You're on the team with other people. You need a lecturer, you need an illustrator, you need so many associates, because you want a very high-quality written content in the first step to give the commission an expert assessment. The better conditions, so to speak, and, of course, longer deadlines, we expect that the offered content of the textbooks will be far better quality, and then the expert commission will have room to see much easier, to give more precise, better reviews. Why is the textbook important? It extends to the entire system of education, to all populations, to all interested. The theme is quality. It's important that we know when something's going to happen. The world is changing, knowledge is changing, our needs are changing. The Prime Minister told us a while ago, we heard on the news -- dual education, and from the next day we start talking about it. We should, but I'm telling you, we need to have one more accurate piece of information and guidance.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35045	The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35046	Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, our sincere desire is to make the proposed amendments, this good bill, certainly improve with modern principles. A little while ago, a colleague pointed out the importance of the principles of activity. In our one amendment, we are, above all, a colleague tried to keep this principle of activity above the principles of competence of textbooks. I think it made our wish very clear: that we want this law to have modern terms, to actively support writers to be creative, as well as younger people who learn, to learn creative thinking and similar things. Also, we now have in this amendment a proposal to extend time and a very reasoned colleague has appeared and I think it is clear to all of us that a serious textbook takes a lot more time than 60 days. So I would ask you to reconsider this proposal and give us a longer period of time, because we know that our textbooks are really late for the textbooks that we have in the West and most of us, what day we are learning, are learning from some other people's textbooks, and that's one serious problem we have today. Therefore, the extension of this time period would foster creative opinion, co-operation, one transfer between the authors themselves and thus create a better basis for quality textbooks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35047	Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Ministers Verbić and the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted the amendment to Article 16. Now I have listened carefully to the honored gentlemen's debate over the previous amendments to lan 16 and Minister Verbic, and it is my feeling that the amendment that has been explained here by Bicanin, indeed the best of all amendments to Article 16 and a better solution than this which now exists in the position of the 3rd member of the bill. Dear gentlemen, Mrs. Bicanin has highly suggested that the time to prepare textbooks in the event of the adoption of a new curricula and programme cannot be shorter than 180 days. Here I am now not making an absolute argument for my amendment, but for the amendment of my fellow Members to the National Assembly. The arguments are absolute, to me it seems to be on the side of fellow Bicanin. If it is possible to think a little bit more, because I think this short period of time, Mr. Verbic, really leaves room not only for good intentions, as you may expect in many people, but sometimes for bad intentions, for intentions concerning some manipulation, for example, leaks of some information, for example, for which possible corruption, when such a short period is given Mr. Verbic. So if it's possible to think a little bit more about the change, the amendment is precise -- number 60, is replaced by 180. I think it's the interest of everyone here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35049	Ambassador, thank you. We got it. You used some time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35050	I gave up mine because it is a better amendment from my colleague, Bicanin, Mrs. Gojkovic. I think it's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35051	It's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35052	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35053	The 17th Amendment with correction was brought together by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Haljimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kanberi. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35054	Thank you, Your Honor. We believe that because of the difficult situation in the area of providing textbooks, manuals and teaching resources in the language and letter of national minorities, it is necessary to enable the supplementation of catalogues to be carried out every year, rather than as this bill has been established every four years. Why is this important? As far as national communities are concerned, the provision of textbooks and the alignment of catalogues is a process, and this procedure itself will be a challenge that will obviously gradually produce results, not from one, and because of this provision, we will have to wait four years for each problem removed, its implementation. Once again, I remind you of the amendment of colleagues from the Union of Duke Hungarians to Article 20, which you have adopted, where national councils give consent to the printing of textbooks in the language of national minorities. So this is about a process that is significantly different and significantly longer and more complicated than the process of cataloging textbooks in Serbian. We draw your attention here to the problems that need to be removed so that we don't have to change the law again when you realize that we were right and all the amendments we propose, including those that we have submitted to this law, are meant to bring the effects of every law into line and that the effects of every law are the same for our people as the effects on the members of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35055	Thank you. Time. The word is Velinka Tosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35056	Thank you. With all due respect to national minorities, however, I believe that this amendment cannot be accepted because it is in no way pedagogically justified that we change our curricula every year. So yet I think that a period of four years is one reasonable period and that during that period and that the law itself has prescribed, if there is a change in the curriculum and the programme, we should call for a Article 16 that has set all this well and for these reasons I do not think that this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35057	The word is Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35058	Dear President, Mr Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, when we talk about this issue, I would like to remind the EU's report of June 22nd this year. EU experts staying with us in March have drafted a report, and I will only deal with this issue of education. The find is from the Commission in 2012, the opinion of the Advisory Committee of 2013 and the end of the find of the Expert Commission of 22 June 2015. EU experts conclude that despite recent and significant deteriorations, there is still a need to increase the availability of quality textbooks in the languages of national minorities. Furthermore, experts recommend – continue working on making quality textbooks for education in the languages of national minorities. To that end, it is necessary to consult minority legitimate representatives who feel the best problems and needs of minorities, which we have here in the Assembly and if we do not have legitimate representatives of minorities in the Assembly, we should look for them in some way. However, we have MPs here. In this regard, I call on the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as the legislator of this law to respect the interests of minorities expressed through the proposed amendments to minority MPs. I think it's unacceptable and abnormal for the congregation majority to determine what they're going to learn, how they're going to educate and shape their personality. It is normal, human and humane and perfectly normal to respect competent opinions expressed through amendments to the legitimately elected representatives of the Albanian national community and MPs of the Bosniak national community. I propose that we think about this and go in the context of the proposal and the requirements and recommendations of the EU Expert Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35059	National MPs Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic together submitted the 17th amendment. The word is Ninoslav Stojadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35060	Dear Mrs Gojkovic, the respected Minister Verbic with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, the previous amendment, referred to the call for a previous member. There we proposed four years to bring it down to a year, to be once a year, so it's normal for this catalogue mentioned in this article to be determined every year. But if the previous one was not accepted, there is no logic to accept this one, which, I think, made it very clear that the explanation for the refusal of the amendment was very correct, in detail and that I said that no disaster would happen if our amendment was not accepted. In this regard, I would ask Mrs Gojkovic, some fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, especially those who come from the field of education to listen carefully to what is said and, as they say, with understanding prepare for this, without repeating certain things and not criticising what is already clearly said to be supported, that there is no problem. So it's not my goal to sharpen the situation and bring any unrest here, but simply, if the amendment's proposings agree with the explanation, if they find some compromise and say it's not bad, there's no need to repeat it all again in the answers, and I think that this and the quality of the debate would contribute, and also rationality, the debate would be shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35061	The word is Irene Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35062	Thank you. I've listened very carefully to my esteemed colleague and I agree, it's nice to admit it in some way and, of course, we're all educators here and the goal is to discuss improving education in the end line, so I'd just look back at this. Of course, the amendment should not be accepted for the reason we've already talked about it. I would just like to point out once again that I think that this is one of the oldest of the best provisions for a number of reasons, and it's particularly important to me to have the practical reason that, believe me, it is important, and especially to parents who are really in a very difficult situation, so this means a lot to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35063	Thank you. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored President Gojkovic, Honored Minister Verbic and Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, I believe that this amendment should be accepted for the precision we need to have in the Bill proposal, and here I would like to explain to the Honorable People's MPs and guests. Article 17 concerns the catalog of textbooks and we are changing this part that says the following – the Catalogue contains the following data, including point 3) – the name of the author of the textbook. We believe that it must not be one author, but more authors, and we have recorded it in the amendment. Minister Verbic answered us - The unique methodological rules for the making of the rules have established that the terms in the regulation are used in one, and that a word can mean plural. Like the author. But he can't if there's a name in front of it. Because, watch out, in point 3) it says - the name of the author. Now imagine someone saying the name of the MP. Well, they won't think for sure that the name is Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, those are two names. So it's necessary, gentlemen, to write, I think, the name of the author or the name of the group of authors. Because if he stays the name of the author, he can't name one more author. This would mean that Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, etc., that it is all one thing. Well, he can't, gentlemen. Must stand the name of the author or the names of the group of authors. If it stays this way, Mrs. Gojkovic, here you can give your judgment, like the other gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it really can't, because it's in one word before. He can't name one more author. I think it's necessary to change this. I understand the reason for not accepting the amendments on condition that there is no word name in front of the author.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35065	It's been a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35066	Do you agree, Mrs. Gojkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35067	No, I understood what you mean. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35068	Thank you. I would just point out the fact that the amendment promoter has given up his amendment to Article 16 on the same subject. We just heard him give priority to the proposal of his colleague and then he said the words – here, I give up my amendment by giving priority to the other side. If that's the case, then there's no consistency that we're talking about today between these proposals, so I suggest you give up all the other amendments that contain the same provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35069	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Ministers Verbić and the Honored Guests and Guests, it is true that I am in explaining the amendment to Article 16, which was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I, said that I would dedicate the time I have to justify my amendment to support the argument submitted here for my amendment by fellow Members of Bicanin. I think Mrs. Gojkovic understood that absolutely precisely. So, that didn't mean that I was giving up my amendment, but because of the importance of what Mrs. Bicanin was talking about, I wanted to point out once more to the minister how important it is for us to replace it in Article 16, but that doesn't mean I'm giving up the amendment to Articles 17, 18 and 19. Here's why. Here, Mr. Orlic, you say it. Imagine that it is written in some regulation, in some law, by the name of the messengers. Then you mean someone's thinking of one MP, and someone else thinks they're thinking of more MPs. Here's what you think, if I were to say, the name of SNS MP Vladimir Orlic and Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35071	Ambassador, we said names not if you're going to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35072	But that's what this is about, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35073	We all understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35074	Well, here, let the minister react. Am I, Minister, right now? Here you go, Mr. Eagle. Well, he can't name any more authors, he needs names if he's more authors. I understand that the author can do it in one and the plural, but he can't do it with a word in front of him. I think it's obvious, gentlemen. Mrs. Gojkovic, when I speak of the essence of the amendment, you do not allow me to speak. On some examples, I just want to illustrate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35075	No, we just have a deal. Illustrate with those who are not messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35076	Academic congratulations will be especially illustrating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35077	Illustrate the name of someone you know who isn't an MP, so we made a compromise.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35078	So that the SNS gentlemen don't get angry, Mr. Orlic, for example.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35079	He called earlier, before you said anything, he has the right to discuss it. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35080	Yes, Madam President, earlier, and by the way, because I'm not easily angry. I have to admit, now I didn't understand from the explanation whether the motioner gave up that proposal for article 16 or not. He's suggesting he's not. If it isn't, then it's still to explain this discrepancy with the unique methodological rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35081	Thank you. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic and the Honorable Vice President and Honorable Mr Verbic and the Honorable Guests Lužanin, Mujagic and Honored Mr Shuvakov, Article 18 concerns the same thing, and here I am now asking Mr Orlic, who has asked for a special explanation, to show that I think, Minister Verbic, that still in Article 18, as in Articles 17 and 16, this formulation that exists, absolutely because of precision. I guess we have to declare it precisely in our laws. In Article 18, which implies that the name of the author of manuals and teaching materials is given, we believe, Minister Verbić, that because of precision should stand the name of the author or the name of the group of authors. Minister Verbic, respected gentlemen, tells us this - that when I say the name of the author, this name, which is necessarily one, can refer to several authors. He can't, gentlemen, I think. I don't think that's even in line with these unique methodological rules, because first of all here we have to, I think, count with the precision of the language we use. Here, I have to do it again. So when someone says the name of an MP, they can't think of more, but think of one name of an MP, I think. But when he says only an MP, you can think of one person or more. But when the name stands, I don't think it can. You can consult a little bit more of this unique methodological rule, sometimes a little bit of interpretation as it is really consistent and accurate, Mr. Becic. I have a 19th and the same thing goes on here, and I'm gonna say it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35083	Time, thank you. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35084	I haven't turned my microphone off yet from article 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35085	Well, Mr. Pavicevic, you said you had it on article 19, so I didn't want to waste any keys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35086	Mr. Becic, I know you'd like to turn off the microphone after three seconds, but I had to, respecting the rules in our Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to warn you that I had the microphone involved and that I was running the time you wanted to include in the next amendment. We met in a year and three months here, honored gentlemen, in the head, I think. Well, we sit here all day, arguing, so there's no dilemma. But I don't understand how it's possible that after a year and three months, here's the amendment to Article 19, Minister, if I did something wrong and if it's a big mistake that I'm making, please tell me. And if I wasn't wrong, then you would accept our amendments, not only to this Article 19, but to 18, 17 and 16, because I didn't give up on them. It really seems to me that, here, and in Article 19, here is what it says: “The list of articles 1 of this article contains the following data, ” and it states what data, and point 3 says: “The name of the author of the additional teaching agent. ” We, of course, suggest that article 19 stands - the name of the author or the name of the group of authors, the additional teaching tool. It's the same explanation for not accepting the amendments as in previous cases, but I think it's really obvious, Minister Verbić, that your argument would be good if there was no word: "name" in front of the author's words. Whatever your interpretation of what is written in the Unique Methodological Rules, because this creates one terrible inaccuracy, I think. Someone may have been able to take advantage of this inaccuracy, which is not like you, Minister Verbic, has no good intentions, but, for example, it is directed by some bad intentions and then it is interpreted as one and none other.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35087	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35088	Let's make that clear. Here, Mr. Becic extended my time for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35089	Mr. Pavicevic, you're wasting your time for 45 seconds while you greet us and everything else, so you don't have time to explain. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: It is respect, Mr. Becic. Do you want us to disrespect you? ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Aleksandar Markovic, Nenad Nikolic, Mirjana Andric and Sonja Vlahovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35090	Thank you. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank the Minister for the accepted amendment. So this is one of the few technical, let's say, amendments we've submitted. What I'd like to say is, when we endure such amendments, so routine amendments, where we correct some literal peas, so spelling correction, we don't make a feast or a pomp, it's a duty for us, it's a duty, we do it as MPs, unlike some other MPs who then make epic stories, pomps, undertake centuries, etc. So, once again, let me thank the Minister for the accepted amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35091	Thank you. The 20th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Shaip Kamberi. The People's Messenger Sabina Dazdarevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35092	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman. This amendment provides the necessary legal mechanisms for national councils of national minorities to exercise their competences in the field of education prescribed by both the Constitutional and the Law. Namely, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 75 of paragraphs 2 and 3 is prescribed that, through collective rights, members of national minorities, directly or through their representatives, participate in the decision-making process or decide on specific issues related to their culture, education, notification and official use of language and letter, in accordance with the law. In order to exercise the right to self-government in culture, education, notification and official use of language and letter, members of national minorities may choose their national councils, in accordance with the law. The Law on National Councils of National Minorities, among other things, requires the National Council to take measures on all issues directly related to the position, identity and rights of national minorities. Therefore, the legal order of the Republic of Serbia has defined the role and competence of national councils of national minorities, and this amendment also establishes one part of the role and the competence of national councils of national minorities in the field of education, as proposed in the amendment. If, in practice, provisions provided for in Articles 12(6) and 18(3) were to be met. The law on the foundation of a system of education and education would be a very high requirement for translation into Serbian language textbooks and a letter of national minorities in the process of their approval. A positive opinion of national councils of national minorities for translations of approved textbooks in Serbian and letter is necessary due to the practice of very poor textbook translations so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35093	Thank you. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice-President Mr. Becic, Honored Minister Verbic, Honored Guests Lužanin and Mujagic and Honored Mr. Shuvakov, we believe that the contents of item 9) within Article 6 of this proposal of the law should be different, with an additional note to fellow Markovic that it is not convenient for a national MP to define his amendment as routine. Dear gentlemen, I have none of my...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35095	Please don't comment on the amendments that are...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35096	I had to, sir. Imagine, one MP for his amendment to say – it is a routine amendment. Well, there's no routine amendment, gentlemen. How can he do that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35097	Mr. Pavicevic, explain your amendment. Don't explain the amendments that have already passed, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35098	I could say, then, based on, here, point 9) yes, for example...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35099	I know you want Mr. Markovic to come forward, so you have the right to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35100	I'm always in favor of dialogue, Mr. Becic, for discussion. Well, we're in the Assembly, we're not the monologues here to have some. For example, if I were to go from some bad intentions, which, for example, never expects Mr Verbic, then I could conclude on the basis of the content of point 9 of this article that this is routinely a little bit written, as they say, for example, by the MPs of the SNS. We have proposed this text for point 9), "a statement on whether one of the members of the List of Writers of the textbooks (hereinafter referred to as the Reviewer List) is the author of the textbook for the same class subject to any publisher, person employed by the publisher, engaged or business associated with him, including other forms of paid co-operation. “ The minister called and said that he didn’t think this was better. We still think it's better. Please, Minister, since you are not now participating in the dialogue again, do not treat our New Party amendments as routine. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35101	Time. Thank you. The 20th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinkovic, Vesna Besarović, Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The word has a folk emissary of Milena Bycanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35102	We wanted to amend this amendment a little bit to correct this member of the law. We really do have a clear understanding of who the persons are and who the persons should not participate in any business in which conflict of interest arises. But simply, in the previous 2009 law resolution, he was a member of a law where exactly the direction in which relatives are related and, let me say, in what degree of relation they cannot participate in certain or any other affairs that the state sees as an opportunity for corruption and for the humiliation of justice and legal order in the state. We thought we didn't solve those problems, as a society. This law, when we talked about it in principle, we said – there are many examples from earlier practices that we now want to resolve. We think that this part of the text could be found, there would be no intrusiveness, would not be harmful, would only once again warn those who participate in the process of publishing and approving textbooks on which relatives or any other relationship must count, or who must bear in mind that they would not bring the textbook back, pay the penalty, etc. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35103	Thank you. National MPs Anamarija Vicek, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted the 20th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee in charge, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. On Article 20 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Does anyone want to say that? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Verbic and the Honorable Guests now three and guests from the ministry, I think it is necessary to accept our amendment to Article 21 for the sake of precision, gentlemen. I have to use the dictionary now, and here's what it says - precise, which stands out with great accuracy, clarity and completeness. And behind this amendment of ours is total precision, which means accuracy, clarity and completeness, and here's how. In Article 21, paragraph 2, the minister appoints a special commission for selecting members of the list of graders, who has 11 members and then lists who and where. Dear gentlemen, regardless of the content of the remaining continents, the parts of this law, if we leave this formulation, it will not be exactly absolute, completely clear, as it says exactly what these 11 members are referring to. Whether on the list of graders, I say, regardless of the content of the law as a whole or on the election committee. We only suggested that we get out of any possibility of being inaccurate, Minister Verbic, and that means that we have proposed the following formulation – the minister appoints a special commission to select the members of the reviewer list, we now know what the list of assessors means, and the commission has 11 members and then lists who, where and what, etc. What's the problem with accepting that? I don't see any obstacle at all, difficulty. Shouldn't all of us here be focused on that accuracy, clarity, total precision. If you do not accept Minister Verbic, I hope that on the occasion of this amendment, the ruling majority MPs will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35105	The word is from the MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35106	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, on this amendment, which the distinguished counterpart Pavicevic suggests, I think it was necessary to take care of before this bill, given that the assessors of previous years were either dormant or incompetent, whether they were in any way related to the ruling furniture or not, I don't know. In view of what was written in our textbooks, and I will illustrate it to you quite plastically eating readings that I hold here for the second grade of elementary school in which one song, “At the end of the summer” written by Gordana Ilic, and where the navels are mentioned in what is called new words, authors and authors and publishers say literally – pops, they are crickets, crickets, hooks of the depraved body and large heads, which look at each other by rubbing their front wings. So someone who understands insects elementally, not to say in the zoo, in that environment closest to us, will know that the navels and crickets and crickets are not the same. So what our children as different can understand from this if the teacher tells them one thing, the parent of another, and someone who published the textbook of the type of this “Eduke” who had both publishers and authors did not pay attention. Or, say, on the next page, it says that someone was wandering around with the rubbers of the Obrenovac, and the guduras were translated like a narrow, deep-cut valley, gorge or ravine. Indeed, I would not like to qualify this level of knowledge or not knowing the words I would use, to remind myself of this is a 2008 textbook and to this day a current textbook in the "Eduke" edition, I really think it was long ago to pay attention to textbooks, without having to judge in advance whether these textbooks will be competent when we have not yet appointed or selected them. Trust what this government, this minister and the SNS will do will certainly not allow such cardinal mistakes to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35107	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) Why do you think you have the right to reply to this presentation by Mr. Radojevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35108	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Becic, I just want to explain to Mr. Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35109	You are formally right because he mentioned your name and name, but I think Mr. Radojevic's exposure was in another direction and there's really no need for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35110	Mr. Radojevic made a precise statement about one thing, but not about what was contained in my amendment, and then I just wanted to ask why Mr. Radojevic was even talking about my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35111	The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35112	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would only say at first that I would support the previous amendment proposed by my colleague Vladimir Pavicevic, because it obviously came, and apparently the minister himself was confused when it came to this article, since the explanation he gave us for refusing our amendment refers to the list of assessors, and we were actually talking about a commission to select the list of assessors. What we have proposed in this amendment to Article 21 is that, at the end of the line, point 2 is replaced by a comma and they add the words "with at least ten years of work experience". We wanted the members of the special panel to select the list of assessors to be experts in the field of education and education who would have at least ten years of working experience in the profession. What you have answered is that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that an appropriate sublegal law will prescribe a training programme for the evaluation of textbook manuscripts that all members of the reviewer list are obliged to pass. So, once again, we talked about it, and we wanted to propose to this member, and I would ask you once again to consider that the members of the reviewer's selection committee have a minimum of ten years of working experience. Since these are people who are going to choose people on that list of graders, and you yourself have suggested that members of the reviewer list must have at least two years of working experience, so it's kind of the most logical that those who choose these people have a little more years of working experience than they do. The second thing that we wanted to change is in paragraph 5, so that it is – members of the reviewer's list cannot be persons who are authors of the textbooks for primary and secondary school, as well as persons employed, engaged or business related to the editor, that members of the reviewer's list cannot be persons with the responsible face of the publisher's spouse or out-of-marriage partner, first-line blood relative, i.e. in the second-degree line of kinship, adoptor or adoptor, including other forms of paid co-operation, i.e. there are no other legally prescribed conditions for their exemption, on which they provide a statement. We just wanted this change and this amendment in attitude 5 to prevent possible abuses and close that space for possible abuses and corruption that might arise, so we think that this is something that you could think about and adopt today at the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35113	The word is Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35114	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, for the same reason as in the previous amendment, I disagree with this, because I don't think experience in some business is enough to get quality. I think it's primarily knowledge and references from what someone's already written. If someone has a ten-year experience in publishing, like these, say in this collection, or readers, as in many textbooks for lower classes of elementary schools in Serbia, and you can check this out in every elementary school where teachers will tell you that textbooks are abundantly false, that I don't say anything else. So we can't come to an administrative solution, but to an experienced one. Those people who qualified for what they wrote can apply for authors, graders, textbook writers or teachers of our generation. I really think that experience is just one of those factors to pay attention to, but primarily the references already made and what's written is that it's precisely accurate and applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35115	Thank you. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35116	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, just to support Mr. Radojevic and to think he's all right. You see, for what reason, someone can have 40 years of work experience, and they can't have maybe not even a year of one working experience. Working hours and work experience are not the same. Someone with two years of work experience can also give a better quality than the one at 40, because this one with experience is creative in his work and as Mr. Radojevic said, is, and gives a certain contribution to science, etc. When one teacher says I'm a good teacher because I have 40 years of work experience, and I would answer it – you may have 40 years of work experience, but you may have two years of work experience, because repeating the first 39 was, if you didn't creatively give anything. So what the Ministry and the Government have proposed, I think, is quite fine and should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35117	The word is Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35118	Thank you, Mr. Becic, dear ministers with associates, and I will soon have a new theme, on this article, the amendment, but simply a profession, the defence of the profession does not allow me to feel some of the things that have been heard in the previous defences of this amendment. It's called experience. What does experience mean? Of course, working experience is just a necessary condition, not enough. And fellow Radojevic, if I remember his last name correctly, also mentioned references. But my people also pointed out that the esteemed colleague Atlagic, what references for two years of work experience? Well, at least one cycle of four years needs to be satisfied, so let's get to higher education to get over it. So what does two years mean? Well, that's a start, and there's no doctoral studies, and it's similar with primary and secondary education. So absolutely necessary are the references within this work experience and two years is an inadmissible work experience to stay. I know it's a problem to find and make a good list of graders, because the best-quality people are spent on the commission further because of the danger of corruption? A lot of people can't get on lists or commissions, but let's just try to do something. If around some point, the majority agreed on some amendment, and I wrote carefully yesterday, means absolutely all the political groups of the opposition, from the ruling coalition, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, two discussions, the authorised proponent from the SPS Mr Obradovic and a co-worker who left, so discussed, Mrs Zlata Đeric of New Serbia, there were variations from four years we proposed up to eight years, as much as Bicanin suggested, but everyone suggested that greater work experience was necessary. I'm sorry, I'm using Parliament Group time. I won't answer for my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35119	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35120	I'm not answering my amendment, I think it's a good idea to round up the discussion now. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, believe me, it takes at least four years of experience on this, so be aware, if this is not in favour of increasing quality, and then I don't know what amendment is going on. Most of them absolutely agreed on this, even I mean some debater in principle, from the SNS, supported it. This is absolute consent and please, I appeal, increase this to four years. It is, however, some compromise between two and eight, as far as the most proposed colleague is concerned, but this 10 years that we only understand ourselves well, doesn't apply to these two years, it's for the commission, but in the commission, Mr. Becic, we need to explain to a colleague, that, however, in a commission that has 11 members, we choose really top people, for which absolutely this condition doesn't even need to be written, because they definitely have over 10 years of experience, so I think that's enough. Once again, I'm asking the Minister, we're going to have a unanimous bill, but this is a very important member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35121	Thank you. Since I have a full list, I need some order of application, and before that, Minister Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35122	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, I would only like to present more arguments, which is why we at the ministry disagree with this proposal, to seek greater experience. One reason, you should think about what the graders actually grade. So, if we're looking for graders who are going to tell us, this is a great textbook or they're going to tell us, this textbook doesn't meet the standards and we can't accept this. If we were to look for those who would recognize an excellent textbook, we would find it very difficult to find the appraisers, who are able to put themselves in the skin of all possible students with different positions, whose interests are different, to identify different and to say whether this textbook is really good or not. That would be too demanding. We believe this commission should deal with that other aspect of spectrum. There are standards that say what has to satisfy the textbook, and those standards need to know, that they judge anyone who has passed the evaluation training. In Article 21, we have the last position – the way and process of selecting the person for the list of assessors, the evaluation training programme, the minister says. So there's going to be a rulebook where the training itself is defined. It's much more important that we have people who are willing to go through training and respect all the standards than how much experience they have. So those people who really want to get involved in this and they're ready to train, to follow the rules to the end, they're valuable and valuable to us evaluators.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35123	The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35124	Since I see that we still didn't understand each other, to explain to my colleague Atlagic what we wanted with this amendment, which is that in Article 21(2), at the end of the line, the position is replaced by a dot and they add the words "with at least 10 years of work experience", not a work experience, so, given that we have met your criteria and I hope you will support this amendment. Dear Ministers, on the basis of what you have said, based on the last attitude you have read, I can only conclude that the members of the committee are just someone who, based on the criteria that you have prescribed, will choose the people who will be on the list and that it can be anyone, you can pick up people like that from the street without any experience. Furthermore, I think it takes ten years for a minimum of work experience and I remain in that position.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35125	The word is from the MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35126	Dear colleague Stojadinovic, a colleague of Jovanovic and I obviously did not understand each other. When I say experience, I mean quality experience. Everyone will agree that the team of authors of this reading woman, who I keep here in front of me, has experience. They have ten years of experience in writing textbooks, obviously, because this textbook from seven or eight years ago, or 10, doesn't matter. That experience is not good. These mistakes in the textbook are inadmissible. They have unequivocal experience, but these are bad references for someone who should write the next textbook and this experience should not be called upon by someone who will receive the future authorship of a textbook. That's what this is about. So, quality references, even though five reviewers, editors, lecturers, checkers, are signed here, so everyone's past the inadmissibility of cardinal errors, that the navels are the same thing as crickets and crickets, that the goudours are the same as the ravines. Really, it's inadmissible. It's an experience, but it's a negative experience that needs to be avoided for the next writers and lecturers and textbook authors. I hope we agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35127	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milena Bijanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35128	My parliamentary group, of course, has tabled this amendment to this article. We really disagree that the minimum deadline is two years. Now I'm going to try to tax you, Minister, and also to your colleagues, who are showing a desire to participate, but they're simply not in the system, to say what it looks like, what some deadlines in education look like. At two years of education, pass the license exam and become someone who can self-react teaching and evaluate students. Five years is enough for you to apply for the position of director. At least eight years, if you want to get the appointment of a pedagogical advisor. For at least 10 years, if you want to move forward in the ministry and become an independent pedagogical counselor. Of course, at least 12 years, if you want to make further progress. Is it possible now that someone would be a pedagogical counselor, the lowest level of teachers' advancement, that it would take him at least eight years to gain and to have qualified and recognised competences based on which to talk to a colleague, to go to his class, to talk to a student, to be a mentor? We ask him for at least eight, and for an assessment of the quality of the textbooks that directly concern the system at the state level, we say for at least two years. In case I'm a teacher, I've only been teaching first grade for one year, second year teaching second grade, and you say enough. I don't know what a third-grade textbook is. I don't know what a fourth-grade textbook is. I didn't go through that process as a teacher. I don't have self-evaluation personally. I don't know what my students have achieved with me and with those textbooks. I really don't think it's enough. With best intentions to say that these people will undergo training, then I can say in the evaluation office, any promotion you want from two, we have great experts. Make a team of them, they'll probably keep training. We'll have full confidence in their expertise, because for years they've known the system best and how the elements intersect. If in two years we told someone who had just passed the license exam - check Biljana Trebišanin's textbook, Gacanović Biljana, Ljiljana Novković, who has 30 years of training, and then we'll create a commission where someone is 30 years old, someone has 2. Will they be equal as associates? Will one who has less years to retire, say – so I really respect your experience. We need the full consistency of the commission's composition. So I'm only saying this because we care about the quality of the textbook. We make this law, I think, for the greatest, for the first reason, that's why the first level of quality of textbooks, the quality of education, and everything else has to help and must enter that synergy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35129	The word is Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35130	Dear Ministers, colleague Radovic, should not accuse the authors of textbooks, of course, you have illustrated enough...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35131	Please, sir...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35132	I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35133	You have to talk to me. You must not speak to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35134	There's no need to accuse the textbook authors. They did what they did. A colleague clearly illustrated what they wrote, but it was just the ones who graded, the commission they chose from the reviewer list. That's exactly what we're discussing here is that this commission needs to be extremely quality. No training. Does training involve something elemental, what, how, the number of pages, the basic elements, what should the textbook contain? I'm not sure that's the case. Meanwhile, I remembered that another colleague from the strongest ruling party, Mr. Poscurica, had discussed before the day in favour of this solution that experience should be increased. He didn't say if it was four or five or eight years, but after all these discussions, after all these amendments, Mr Verbić, I appeal – give a little more courage. I assure you, Mr Vujovic would gladly accept such an amendment. It takes a little courage. Let's do something, if we all agree on it. I don't count on some discussion of colleagues and colleagues who aren't exactly in progress with matter or have an obligation to discuss against the amendment. Once again, please, I appeal, we won't make a mistake if we put four years or more. There's enough people for the list, there's gonna be good grades, and we're gonna have this law, which is dramatically improved by quality, and the final finesse quality gets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35135	The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35136	Dear Chairman, let me just say that there is a reason to reject this amendment. I don't think we understand each other. The reviewer's list evaluates the standard-based textbook. It's a word on the standards. So, the standards on which textbooks are written, and you're not going to say that a man with two years of experience or how he said one of the previous folk MPs that experience does not mean what an internship does, and a man can also have two years of work experience, so call him 10 experiences, and vice versa. Secondly, let us support the younger generations, that they too be members of the list of reviewers, young people, because there will be those with 10 and 15 years of work experience or work experience, as you will, but there is no reason to be among them at two years, who has a certain experience and certain references to science, etc. Why are we afraid of younger generations? Why are we at the age we're afraid of younger generations? Maybe we think the world will fall apart after us. Let's give individuals a chance inside that commission. For these reasons, Mr. Vice President, I believe that the amendment should be rejected and that the Ministry and the Government are on the right track.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35137	The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35138	It's clear that the current textbooks, we talked about in the principle debate, had a lot of shortcomings, a lot of material errors and other mistakes. These amendments, which we're talking about, are suggestions for members of the reviewer list to be five, four, eight, ten years old. The current proposal is to make it at least two years and no one has said it would be two years, but at least two years, and it will not be a crucial criterion for who will be on the list of graders. A perfectly good argument was given by the esteemed Minister Verbic. He said he'd go through additional training, where he'd still have additional knowledge. This is at least two years old, doesn't mean he'll be two years old, maybe he'll be four, five, six, 10, 20, but it's just the first one to have a minimum of two years. I support this member and, of course, I suggest that the amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35139	Thank you, Mrs. Milosevic. The word is Dr. Aleksandar Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35140	The esteemed chairman, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected colleague Stojadinovic, when you say I shouldn't judge the authors, I don't judge the authors. They wrote what they wrote and what they knew. I condemn the previous regime and the government that allowed it to be written, that this is being studied in our schools, the publisher who earned money on it, and all together, including the previous regime, have had a negative impact on the knowledge of future generations, on the knowledge of generations taught by these textbooks. So the authors did their job, but those who allowed these authors to teach our children wrong go to them. Or the previous regime that allowed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35141	Thank you. The People's MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinkovic, Vesna Basarović, Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic. The word is from the academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35142	Mr. Becic, dear Minister Verbic, I think enough has been said about this article, that we have heard the opinion of people, MPs from almost all parliamentary groups, and that there have been enough arguments given to accept this amendment, and I think this is some compromise between two years, which you have proposed, and eight years, as proposed by my colleague Bicanin. Once again, I urge you to accept this amendment. This will further give meaning and improve the quality of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35143	Thank you. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Aleksandar Markovic, Nenad Nikolic, Mirjana Andric and Sonja Vlahovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the bill. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35144	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as we have said, another technical amendment. So, small intervention. It's a spelling adjustment. I would like to thank the Minister for the accepted amendment, with a brief assessment. So, as we routinely write these technical amendments, we routinely reject non-quality amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35145	Thank you. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Verbic and the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, are two things I would like to declare as part of an argument for the acceptance of our amendment to Article 2 which is more layered. We propose three types of changes in three positions, etc. First note - I never understand a MP who thanks a member of the Government for accepting the amendment. There's nothing we can thank anyone who comes on behalf of the government. We adopt laws here, we make the best texts. We need them to constantly convince us that we're right, when we estimate that we're right. And we're just about to thank the minister now that he's accepted. I was accepted 107 amendments in a year and three months, I didn't say thank you once, but -- well done for accepting the amendment. There's no reason to be grateful. That's our job, gentlemen. I tell him bravo that he recognized it was true. The second thing, I think I might understand a little bit better now why Minister Verbic does not accept these amendments that require further precision. I read the explanation, and then I concluded, although I have good intentions, that perhaps Minister Verbic does not hold so much to precision, nor in laws. For it says: “Amendment is not accepted for reasons, and the time limit set by the promoter guarantees sufficient time. ” I, gentlemen, will begin to submit amendments to the reasons for not accepting the amendment, Mr. Becic. And I'll check, of course, whether it's in accordance with the unique methodological regulations and if it is, I'll handle it. If it isn't, I'll ask it to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35147	I thank Mr. Pavicevic and I think a happy man is the one who can often use the word "thank you." The 22nd Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by academics Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinkovic, Vesna Basarović, Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The word has a folk emissary of Milena Bycanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35148	Article 22 refers to an expert assessment. According to point 4, “the Commission may, before a professional assessment is made, return the manuscript of the textbook to the author at work, in order to remove minor shortcomings. ” So he can and doesn't have to. That's why we thought that, simply for some correctness, and we have in the discussions a story about that the textbooks are full of mistakes in different ways, in Article 22 paragraph 4: "less shortcomings" would replace the words: "greeds and failures in the text of names, names, numbers, spelling errors, inadequate illustrations and so forth". The amendment was rejected because it was said that if all errors were made, it would create restrictions in the number of possible errors. Article 39, a new edition of the textbooks, says that the change in the content of Article 1 is not considered when we talk about a new textbook, correcting errors and loss in text, names, names, numbers, spelling errors, outdated illustrations. So the amendment I'm giving is rejected because it's limited and it can't be counted as what's wrong. Here it is said – that is not the reason for the release of a new textbook. Then I ask, "What is a mistake?" What's a minor mistake, Minister? Now, I really don't know what a minor mistake is. I know what the material is. But will the commission, which is left for free of charge, return the manuscript to repair or not, be left to tell them what is a minor mistake – and what are they going to agree on, means, what is the error in the textbook? Thank you. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society submitted an amendment to Article 22. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 23rd Amendment was submitted to the People's Parliament of Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 24th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35149	I thank you, but I've applied and I'm talking about an amendment to Article 22, so I'm seeing fewer shortcomings in reading my name in the electronic system. That's a detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35150	Mrs. Komic, you may be right, but something is late today, and very often does not register an immediate application.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35151	I don't mind, I'm just saying, I'm seeing fewer shortcomings. And I give an explanation that there are minor shortcomings that my name has not been seen in the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35152	It's my fault and I'm going to pay a little more attention to the amendment promoter. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35153	Because now this Article 22, which is indirectly linked and with Article 24, now says that before the expert evaluation can be made, the Commission can return the textbook's manuscript to work out in order to remove minor shortcomings, with a detailed explanation of the observed shortcomings, has had to be regulated linguistically differently, but it is now too late. Article 24 speaks of the expert opinion and in the basic text of the Bill's proposal, it is said that the expert opinion on the quality of manuscripts of manual and teaching means is given by a commission formed by the Institute, i.e. the Regional Institute. Our amendment is for the staff committee to be with at least ten years of work experience, because we believe that giving an expert opinion is a serious and complicated job that requires experience. In order to ensure that it will indeed be professional, not with shortcomings smaller or larger, the requirement for ten years of work experience. We are also consistently implementing this through Article 2 of Article 24, which says – Professional opinion on the quality of additional teaching tools, teaching aids, didactic means and doactive game resources is given by a commission formed by the Institute, i.e. the Regional Institute. We just want it to be added – from the ranks of employees with at least ten years of work experience. Let's not argue that it's formed by the Bureau or the District Office. Also in the third position, which reads in the basic text of the Bill – if the Office, i.e. the Regional Office, is not employed by persons with adequate education, the persons on the list of assessors can be hired. This third position has been complemented by our amendment for the same ten years, but he also says that the promoter believes it is possible that there are no persons such that the commission is formed and entrusted to them with the job of giving an expert opinion and therefore offers in the 3rd position the possibility to hire a person on the list of assessors. If there are no people with ten years of professional experience in the Office, we have a much bigger problem than giving them the opportunity to be on the list of assessors, but I understand that the possibility of not forming a commission from the competent institutions, hence the 3rd position. We believe that our amendment, with at least ten years of work experience added, solves all problems and facilitates the work of forming a commission in both the Institute and the District Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35154	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Becic, the honourable Ministers Verbić and the honored guests and guests of the Ministry, our amendment to Article 24 has been accepted. It's a bill of law. In just one sentence here, I will say that it is my great pleasure that the MPs of the SNS in the voting day, when they vote in favour of this bill as a whole, will also vote in favour of our amendment, i.e.. its content on Article 24, which becomes an integral part of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35156	The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Thank you. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Orlic, Aleksandar Markovic, Nenad Nikolic, Mirjana Andric and Sonja Vlahovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ministers of Verbić and the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, I am pleased that the amendment to Article 25 has been accepted, and I am informing the MPs that we are now in a wave of accepted amendments, which we, the People's MPs of the New Party, have submitted to the proposal for a law on textbooks. I just think there's been enough arguments and a lot of reasons for this number of our accepted amendments to be much greater than seven, but what's here is. I will fight for acceptance by the end of the debate and those amendments that the government has not accepted and sent us an explanation for not accepting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35158	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. This is exactly what's happening because you don't turn off the microphone when you finish the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35159	Then can I keep talking?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35160	I turned it off now, Mr. Pavicevic. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Milorad Mijatović, Branko Djurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinković, Vesna Besarović, Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35161	My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, I am glad that we have entered the process of removing some language peas and that we have made our contribution here, as it is said in both Bosnian and Serbian. I will support my colleague Vladimir Pavicevic, who often has some kind of language corrections here, and that is essential for the adoption of one law and for sending a total message to take care of everything and to pursue one perfectionism. In that sense, I can say that I am glad that you have respected this amendment of ours. I must remind myself that two more amendments have been passed in front of my parliamentary group and I think we will have one quality law in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35162	Thank you, Dr. Bacevac. Unfortunately, Mr Pavicevic, you are not the proposer of this amendment. (Vladimir Pavivcevic, from the place: How am I not? You're not. (Vladimir Pavvcevic, from the place: In the same text. But only MP Zoran Zivkovic. (Vladimir Pavvcevic, from the post: After Minister, Mr Verbić, it is the same. I see that you want to be Mr. Zivkovic at the moment, but it is impossible in the National Assembly. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Now it's you, Mr. Pavicevic. Thank you. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Verbic, I would like to give you special attention when I explain the amendment to Article 27, as well as the distinguished guests and guests, since we have proposed, by amendment to Article 27, that Article 27 be amended, and that the principle of academic integrity, gentlemen, be introduced in Article 2. Here is how we propose it to be – the Minister approves a textbook for religious teaching on the proposal of the Institute and on the basis of the Commission's positive opinion on religious teaching, i.e. on the basis of an expert opinion, if the procedure of expertise, respected gentlemen, has been carried out, with full respect for the principles of academic integrity. The principle of academic honesty, for all of those MPs and MPs who may not be referred to matter, rests on the independent production of written works and on strict respect for other people's copyrights. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, term, coin - academic congratulation did not come up with me to respond to the flood of plagiarism that we have faced in the last year and three months, but that coin already exists, respected gentlemen, in certain rules at the universities of the University of Serbia. For example, at the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade, there is, gentlemen, a rule of academic integrity, in which academic integrity is defined as I said, where it says that the most severe violation of the principle of academic integrity is plagiarism. It's not my special innovation, it's standard, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35164	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order for something to be standard, by law, it is certainly not enough to be seduced into a document adopted at a higher education facility, even if it is for the reason that the one who is proposing it was there. So, once again, I'm calling for us to get serious and do this right. It's not a theme who came up with a coin, for no reason at all, but I can agree that, as the promoter said, he didn't do it because of the flood of some plagiarists, for a simple reason, that kind of flood he also imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35166	Thank you. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Shaip Kamberi. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35167	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, our amendment that we have submitted and your justification for refusing this amendment says how contradictory is the entire system governing individual and collective rights of members of national minorities. We have submitted an amendment in line with this draft law with Article 14(2). National Minority Councils Act. In your explanation, you are referring to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. So it's obvious that here it was chosen between the two opposite possibilities, created by the contradiction of two adopted laws, and that anyone can choose what he likes and rejects what he doesn't like. So, in this case, you've chosen to disengage Article 14. National Councils Act. If that law were the law, you would be punished for breaking the law. However, the Law on National Councils does not provide for any criminal provision, which calls for anyone willing to break the law without any consequences. That's what you did in this case. We have drawn attention to your colleagues that their draft laws are contradictory to each other and that they are inconsistencies and that every right afforded by one law is denied by some other law. That's exactly what we're suggesting to you right now. On the other hand, the essence of this amendment is to finally break the practice of most imposing on a minority what the minority does not want and that the minority cannot do anything about it. I think it would be good for you to listen to what legitimate representatives of minorities say here and to put what we are proposing into law because it's the only way to finally end the assimilation of minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35168	Members of the 27th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Anamarija Vicek, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and National MP Olena Papuga. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35169	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like only in a few words now, not to thank, as counterpart Pavicevic said he did not thank the minister for the approved amendments. I would like to thank you for the openness of the Ministry of Education for Co-operation, when we were working on harmonising the presentations of the Law on textbooks with the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. Once again, I would just like to point out that in this case, too, there has been harmonisation from word to word with the National Minority Councils Act, which is extremely important because we are not asking for anything more than the laws allow, or from those rights that allow us various laws. I would like to point out that this and the fact that other MPs have attached the same amendment with the same words proves that this is an extremely important thing. We are extremely pleased with the fact that this amendment has been accepted, or that our suggestion has been respected. Once again, I would just like to thank you for the openness and co-operation of the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35170	Thank you. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Vice President Bečić, feel free to read loudly when our amendment comes to order, I have almost not heard you read my name, or my name, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, as Mr. Srdjan Verbic would say. Dear Mr Verbic, distinguished guests and guests from the Ministry, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 28. He deserves, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the most serious attention of all the MPs because it's not a joke, it's not a distraction and it's not about imagining. It concerns something that we are facing as a major problem, and these are the problems of plagiarism issues in this country. We propose adding a new position 3 after Article 28, in which the following words will eventually be added: "Approving manuals and teaching materials", etc., "is done with full respect for the principles of academic integrity. “ Since Minister Verbic, here, has been denied for almost a year now that this Assembly has been discussing a proposal to amend the Law on Higher Education, which would define the principle of academic integrity as one of the basic principles of our higher education system, we have had to intervene on the content of this Bill proposal by relying on the principle of academic honesty that each author of textbooks, each author, each professor and teacher must be known. We can't get past the plagiarism problem, gentlemen. That's not true that he doesn't have it. Well, we're here on the board, so Minister Verbic named one of the rectors a man who doesn't have a doctorate, and he pretends to have a doctorate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35172	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Article 28) Mr. Pavicevic, please don't flaunt with other MPs. Hold your concentration. Do not let Mr Bozovic influence your concentration so that you do not hear when your amendment comes. Thank you. On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Anamarija Vicek, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck and the MP of Olena Papuga together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society submitted the 29th amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee in charge, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35173	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly of Mr Bečić, the honourable fellow MPs of the PUPS, the Honorable Minister Verbic, the distinguished guests and guests of the Ministry, have submitted an amendment to Article 29, which we propose to add Article 9, in which it will finally say that the approval of textbooks, textbooks and teaching materials, etc., is carried out with full respect for the principles of academic integrity, gentlemen. It is impossible to imagine the situation here in the National Assembly to discuss issues of education, issues of publishing and approval of textbooks for elementary school, of high school, without telling Minister Verbic that he has made a terrible mistake about the great principle of every system of higher education, which is the principle of academic integrity, gentlemen. And, let me say to Mr. Atlagic and Orlic, that's not some kind of hazy notion, that's not the kind of honesty being treated in a sense of moral views and orientation, it's not a matter of individuality, subjective sense and the like, it's a principle, respected gentlemen, which has its clearly defined meaning. It's a principle, Mr. Atlagic, which rests on the independent production of written papers, not the appearance of people who hire someone to write something, and then declare it their own, and on that basis they acquire scientific titles, teaching titles, etc. That can't happen, gentlemen. Minister Verbic, at least say you agree with that if it is not possible to enter the law. Say, we need to agree on the principle of academic integrity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35174	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the first part of what I have to say I suppose you're already expecting. I call on him not to adopt, and I think we've exchanged more than enough times on the subject of what's at stake here when some principle is being advocated, and there's nowhere to be right. The other part may not have been expected by everyone. I don't suppose the promoter expected him to make any spelling mistakes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35176	Thank you. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35177	Here, Mr. Chairman, I suggest we not adopt this amendment. And also, as far as I'm concerned, to answer the gentleman in one sentence to the doctor. Didactics knows 12 doactic principles. One of them is a moral principle. Here, with this answer, each of our educators and this moral principle, it is, it contains besides other and moral functions, and even this plagiarism that is spoken of. Therefore, there is no need to stress this more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35178	Thank you. Members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is necessary to accept our amendment to Article 30, which provides for the change in attitude 2 of point 3 and to read - the name of the author or group of authors. Here, we, gentlemen, had a situation that we might be able to judge in the following way. So, Mr. Becic read the name of one amendment promoter, just illustrating why we're changing Article 3rd item of Article 30, he read the name of an MP. If we were to listen to what Mr Verbic has told us, then, on the basis of his proposal, Mr Becic could give me the right to speak every time the amendment is proposed, for example, only MP Zoran Zivkovic. And here, Mr. Becic, if you don't vote for this amendment, then that means you accept that rule too. That rule must not exist so defined, because it brings terrible inaccuracy. We are only fighting, gentlemen, for one element of what is recognized in our Constitution as the most important principle of every democratic state and ours. Well, I guess we want to have some modern democracy here, too, which is the principle of rule of law. The principle of rule of law, among other things, rests on a terrible need to define precisely what legal matter is. Well, we can't inaccurately create democracy in our country. It has to be said precisely, because if Mr. Becic doesn't have it, then I ask you, every time Mr. Zivkovic is gone, and he submits an amendment, that by the nature of things defined like this, you give me the right to the word. Or if another MP is not here from the SNS, for example, to give a word to the other person who is there. We can't do that with rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35180	Time. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35181	Thank you, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35182	The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society submitted to Article 30. The proposer's representative shall accept the amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35183	The question, given that I am not sure, but given that we have accepted the amendments, the Proposer has accepted and it is okay to amend the amendment that introduces previous consent from the National Councils Act. This Article 30, in paragraph 2, does not currently have prior consent and the same proposals are listed which are otherwise in these other members. I'll read it to make it clearer. I mean, the amendment itself is fine, the mistake was written not to approve the textbook. The amendment, I do not dispute nor the amendment, but I have a question now in point 6 of point 2 of point 2 – a call for a reasoned assessment by the Commission, i.e. a proposal from the Institute, or the Regional Institute, to approve the manuscript of the textbook. Is there a need for prior consent of national councils or not? Because we've now passed by law, everywhere before, with the prior consent of the National Council, and I think it's okay. I don't know if I should or shouldn't be here. I mean, we're under discussion in detail, it could possibly intervene, if you think I'm reading wrong, I'm sorry, it just seemed logical.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35184	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35185	Come on, just give us two minutes to consult so we can respond adequately.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35186	The word is Gordana Komic. It's not common, but check in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35187	Article 30(2) The position deals with the solution referred to in Article 1, which contains the solution. In point 6, the call for a reasoned expert assessment by the Commission, i.e. the proposal of the Institute, or the Regional Institute, to approve the manuscript of the textbook. This isn't, it's excess and it's all right. Everywhere earlier when we talked about the assessment and approval of the minister, we added the previous agreement of the National Minority Council. I'm not saying I should, but by following up, do we have to put it in this point 6 as well? If we already state in the solution and a reasoned expert assessment and a proposal from the Institute, i.e. the Regional Institute.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35188	Let's listen to Annamari Vicek's First National MP, and in the meantime, you ministers prepare for an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35189	Please, how much time do I have from the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35190	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35191	Thank you very much. Thank you for your notice. We were very, very detailed in reviewing the law, and in any case when we felt it was necessary to put the jurisdiction of the National Minority Council, it seems to me that we put it on anyway. The bottom line is, we're looking for prior consent. So the key is that the previous consent of the National Minority Council is sought. So, at an earlier stage in a much earlier phase in the textbook approval process, the previous consent of the ministry should be delivered. So, at the time when the publisher teaches competitive documentation along with the textbook's handwriting, he should also hand over the prior written consent of the national council. But here the second question is what should be the solution. It might not be worse if it were also in a solution in a legal technical sense, if possible to add, it would probably be convenient to add, although I stress that this is about previous consent and if we consider it absolutely correct that the process of approving textbooks will take place. So, if there is no prior consent of the National Council at the time of the presentation of the competition file, then it won't be possible to end the whole procedure at all, but correct me if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35192	Thank you, Mrs. Vicek. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35193	The previous consent we have at the very beginning, it's an integral part of the documentation, so, without prior consent, the manuscript won't even be discussed, therefore, that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35194	Thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, I see that Mr. Giric has arrived, been away all morning and has now come to speak, dear Minister Verbic and distinguished guests and guests from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35196	Please, Mr. Pavicevic, don't mention the MPs in the O.R., hoping you get the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35197	Mr. Giric threw me something and I said hello, and Mrs. Mrdakovic is there. So the basic question respected gentlemen of this amendment is, is, when we say, a name, that can mean - names, respected gentlemen? Well, he can't. Here in the dictionary, but Professor Atlagic, not from the 1960s, I can see that you have volumes here, but in the 2007 Serbian language dictionary, which is irrelevant now. We have to stick to the dictionary and spelling, etc. It shows - the name, the minister... (Marco Atlagic, from the place: Oh, no, no. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35198	Please, Mr. Atlagic, don't let Mr. Pavicevic drag you into his...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35199	... Mr Verbić's name, he says - the personal name of the man who officially receives at birth and who by his last name represents a designation of identity, for example, the girl's name is Mara, but we can't respect the gentlemen here then to determine that more people who get a name and can, and different names and names, can be represented by one name. So, gentlemen, in Article 31, it has to be the name of the author and the group of authors or at least, if you want the name or the name of the author. It is impossible that it is not in line with the unique methodological rules for making regulations, because it is in conflict with what is both a dictionary and a spelling, etc., then we have a certain kind of problem respected gentlemen, here. If we want plural, then we use names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35200	The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Dr Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35201	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Becic and the respected Minister Verbić and the distinguished guest and Mr. Shuvakov, from the Ministry, Mr. Giric was not here this morning, he has not heard of a principle that we propose to become part of the content of Article 32. The draft law on textbooks, which is respected gentlemen, Mr. Atlagic and Mr. Giric, the principle of academic congratulation. Let me say it again here, I have to repeat it because we have a huge problem with plagiarisms that it doesn't react to. Academic congratulation, and here it comes to publishing textbooks of preparation, textbooks for basics, for high school, to prevent it from being copied, to say what is taken from someone else. This is presented as our own, it is necessary to insert the principle of academic honesty, which Mr. Giric is based on independent writing. When I write something, then I'm the author of it, and if I call on the idea of other authors, then I have to point it out in a certain way in a certain way, gentlemen, and not that what's other than this, I usually represent other people's ideas as my own, and that's how I get even scientific titles, gentlemen. That can't happen. The draft law on textbooks is one of the laws that is a good reason to react here to the flood of plagiarism. How to enter into the bill the principle of academic honesty and say that anyone who violates that principle cannot write a textbook that will be recognised in elementary and high school, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35202	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. As you can see, you're not very convincing, because only Dr. Vladimir Orlic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35203	Which isn't too much, I agree. If the main concern of the promoter is the amendment to copyright protection, I have good news for him. He may have missed the fact that it was in this particular article, in this very position where amendments are proposed, that question is properly regulated, so it might be convenient to read the amendment's position aloud now or at some next time, perhaps add an apology in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35204	Thank you. Not to be misunderstood, I thought, not counting on Mr. Orlic, who wasn't called, none of the names were answered. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35205	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, is under the impression that the principle of academic integrity by the promoters should become one innovation, which not only applies to textbooks, but to all laws in the field of education and science. We think that there is some political connotation that should lead to doubt, society, at all making any scientific work or textbooks, and that is what is unacceptable, because the principle of academic integrity should be acceptable and implies, not only for textbooks and works, but for the complete work of all those who participate in the production of didactic material, i.e. scientific works for both colleges and secondary schools. Continued repetition, insistence on this principle should give a personal seal to the motion that we cannot agree on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35206	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. As Mr. Orlic said, Mr. Pavicevic, this is not enough for a replica, so I cannot accept your report. The 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35207	Article 33 in the 1st item says – the school chooses at least three textbooks for each class which ranks according to the priority in the special list which is part of the choice of textbooks, which is notified by the advice of parents. Our proposal is now that after the amendment is accepted, the list school chooses at least three textbooks for each class, which is ranked according to priority, according to the criteria established by the Ministry, in a special list that is an integral part of the decision on the choice of textbooks, which is notified by the advice of parents. The second attitude is about deadlines. We don't think March 20th is a good time, but that's less important. We discussed this amendment, or how to formulate it, had dilemmas, how the school would choose at least three textbooks. Is the school going to set the criteria itself, each school, whether there's some kind of procedure for school administrations with the Ministry or not? So, the very selection procedure of at least three textbooks, we agree with that, but we lack even that act, the regulations of any level of governance in education, will show what the criteria for these three textbooks are. What we decided in the end was that it was the Ministry. It is not entirely certain that we have removed the doubt whether this is the best possible solution, but with the intention of opening a dialogue on what will be the criteria for the schools to choose textbooks, because a huge part of the unnecessary debate on this law and the previous one has been reduced to being completely foggy and that there are sources of corruption and the rest, which I do not agree with, but we felt it would be good to leave beyond any doubt that the school will make a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35208	The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35209	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 33 refers to the choice of textbooks, and I think it's quite clear here and that nothing is hazy. Who picks textbooks at school? The decision on the selection of textbooks in one school shall be made on a teaching council on a reasoned proposal for professional activities on subjects, i.e. the professional activity of class teachers. This also brings joy to educational workers, for they are the most invited to make a decision that the textbook will use in its department. They are the ones who know their students best and know what the department they work with will do the most. There is no need for any additional criteria that the ministry will even bring. In this regard, I call on all MPs to refuse this amendment in the voting day and not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35210	The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35211	That's how it's been. If the subject of criticism and the reason for the change was the fact that this was wrong, how is it suddenly good? You have to make up your mind. So, the choice of textbooks in schools was the subject of criticism and the subject of remarks about, I already said in the principle debate, various publishers and corrupt teachers in selecting textbooks, and I said in principle that I am very much opposed to such folklore in the description, and that I never liked listening to the remarks about the Law of textbooks, that we were talking about corruption and that the quality of textbooks had been affected. That's why I'm talking about the criteria for choosing the textbook. When I say it can be done by the ministry or someone else, I don't forbid it to be anyone else. This law will be applied in two years, we'll all be here and we'll see how this member applies in practice. I will be there to say that I have warned by considering my obligation to bring the criteria, and you will be there to say that even without any criteria, the process has run without any error. That's right in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35212	The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35213	I really must react, because when we say the term "corruption teachers", it simply offends the profession, insulting my fellow Members of the people. If you were a fellow Members of Parliament here at the public hearing in the premises of the National Assembly, when we had a debate on this law, it was just a criticism why teachers don't decide how to choose textbooks, and what I and the representatives of the ministry have answered that teachers participate, and they should be the key factor that chooses textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35214	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35215	That sounds very nice when you represent it like that, it's just that it doesn't say it in a member of the law. The article reads "a school from the list chooses at least three textbooks". I'm talking about criteria, I'm not saying it to piss you off, which I can, but because it's a problem, and if it says that "a school from a list is picking up at least three textbooks", it doesn't say anything about who at school, by which criteria, and that we agree that it's very bad that in the comments on the Law on textbooks is talking about corrupt teachers and all publishers, I've made it clear that I've always been against and that this bad service has been done to everyone. When I say that we need to talk here about criteria based on which school will rank according to priority, then I'm saying it because I don't see in any other member or in any part of it talking about it, now we've heard here that one of us MPs knows exactly how the procedure is going to go. I don't know, because it doesn't say it in the law. I know what I hear in the debate about bad law enforcement. I repeat, he can't do both. We can't listen to the public debate of an ugly word about the application of the law, not to change anything in the process of ranking textbooks and then say – now it's going to be great. Of course, most people can do whatever they want. That's not the problem. Just because we think it's enough to claim that now it's gonna be great isn't enough guarantee. The guarantee is what the members of the law say. That's why we've accepted amendments to our previous consent, which is why we're discussing here. There's nothing here about criteria. If it's going to be in some sublegal act, I don't know, it doesn't say anything. That's why I'm giving the amendment to discuss the criteria for ranking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35216	The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35217	Dear MPs, the criteria have indeed been changed. There's a few new things here. The first is that three teachers, or teachers, choose. In Article 33, it states that the decision on the choice of textbooks makes a teaching council on a reasoned proposal of expert councils for areas of the subject, i.e. professional activities. There used to be one textbook, and now three are chosen to speed up if the first one doesn't exist. Second, the school needs to inform the parent’s advice. That's what the law says. It wasn't before. Now we're not asking for the consent of the parent's advice, but they have to be informed about it. Third, we now have significantly less textbooks than there were. So we can have six of those textbooks that they choose from three of. Before was choosing one of many. So now it's important to have a different situation in which it's being brought, chooses this list of textbooks, so we think we should give freedom to teachers to determine for themselves how they're going to make a priority and choose three textbooks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35218	The 33rd amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodana Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35219	I have a question about Article 34(1), which says – the teacher makes a serious breach of the work obligation if he asks the students to buy an additional teaching tool. I convey the question, because this attitude is related to attitude 5, where additional funds are defined. My question to the minister is, since teachers, teachers, teachers, who watch Article 5, where an additional teaching tool is defined, do they fear that it is not detailed enough in Article 5 and that the injury is very serious? So, if a teacher makes a major breach of a work obligation, how much does he require his students to buy an additional teaching tool? If you think it's clear enough in Article 5, I only have an obligation to pass on, since, knowing how it goes in our schools, it may be by Article 5 that something else is declared by an additional teaching tool. That Article 5 is now better defined than it was in the Law that was withdrawn, but here is my obligation to convey to you that there is one fear of educators that there will be abuses of this attitude 1 when it comes to purchasing additional funds. I don't have an estimate, we haven't submitted the amendment, but I think it's good to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35220	Thank you. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, mg Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35221	In the draft law, Article 36(2) defines what makes the commission defined in point 1 that it has seven members, of these seven members three of them are publishing experts, a public representative and two representatives of other publishers, one from the ministry, one from the authority responsible for trade affairs, one from the consumer protection authority and an expert on economic science, who proposes a socio-economic council and appointed the commission as a minister. Our amendment only has a sentence that is added and says that - members of the commission must have more than five years of work experience. An explanation of why the amendment is rejected and how it should be taken into account. I don't think there's anything going on. It would be good if, already, this commission that makes important decisions were appointed by the minister, that there is at least the legal guarantee that they have more than five years of working experience. Liaison of committee members with other laws is not sufficient to guarantee that this will indeed happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35222	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, mg Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35223	Article 36, which is the amendment and our amendment, speaks of the obligation of the publisher to have an internal control system to monitor the quality of their textbooks, to obtain the opinions of the users of textbooks and to make the monitoring records known and that is the position set out in Article 36(1) on which we have no objections. The second attitude, reads - the quality of the textbooks and the results of the use in educational and experimental work is constantly followed by the Institute. Our proposal is that this attitude is changed and that the quality of the textbooks and the results of the use in the educational educational system of work are continuously monitored by the institution through regular quarterly controls, and the reports are published on the Institute's website, along with my two questions about the use of words - the site, but it is already folklore for us writers of the amendment. Why? There's a reason that it's been continuously followed by the Bureau, that it's in the jurisdiction that the Bureau has. We think this is a good service to the future application of the law, to legally commit the office to quarterly, regular reports. He's constantly following. He can give annual reports, he can be invited to the National Assembly, all of which I know, but he's preparing for the application of this law, in this case he's got plenty of time, and we thought it would be good to make a commitment to the Institute when he starts applying that through quarterly controls, he simply shares it with the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35224	Thank you. National MP Dr Ljubisa Stoimirovic submitted to the 37th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have adopted the amendment, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, mg Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 37th amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this amendment, in the first part, as regards item 4 and point 3 we have already spoken, within four years, which is also foreseen in the list of textbooks and catalogues and so on, and I would not continue to repeat the same problem since we have already talked enough about it. Point 5 concerns the period when a textbook is to be translated, which in the case that minority schools do not have any textbooks, then it is proposed to be the textbook of the publisher who received the highest percentage, and it is given time for the translation to be by the next school year. Here in the amendment, a 90-day period is set to be shorter because I think it is reasonable to solve the problem of translation, of providing quality translations, and not of those so far who participated, who were often with material errors. I think it could go 90 days, not wait until the next school year. I think this issue is in that amendment, the proposal was this. Just that I'm recapitalizing since this is the last amendment. I think there will be plenty of places and suggestions on how to translate, but somehow there is not enough attention and a way of faster, more efficient to provide additional textbooks for these specific, specific content and minority programmes and that situation that can be provided via the home country or, as is now said, from abroad. If this were under-processed, and in a situation where schools in minority languages should...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35226	Mr. Halimi, the whole time you've had is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35227	... . is at the initial stage to predict more seriously and this possibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35228	The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The 39th Amendment with correction was brought together by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, the Honored Ministers Verbić and the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, is the amendment to Article 40, the last amendment that MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted to the proposal for a law on textbooks, gentlemen. In this amendment, we propose that Article 40 point 2 is changing that point and that instead of what it says here at point 2 we have the following content – the textbook is withdrawn from use in the case of copyright infringement and the principle of academic integrity, gentlemen. We felt it was necessary to respond to the content of this bill to direct the attention of all MPs and Minister Verbic towards a major problem we have faced in the last year and three months in particular, there have been before, but now, especially, this is a plagiarism problem. We felt that when we came to this chapter in the proposal for a law on textbooks regarding the withdrawal of textbooks from use, it was not enough, respected gentlemen and Mr. Orlic, to remain only a violation of copyright, but that point must include everything concerning the principle of academic integrity, gentlemen. I repeat, I believe that after this session there will be no MP who will not know what academic honesty is. Academic congratulation, once again, gentlemen, and that is good, is based on the independent work of written works and, gentlemen, on the strict respect of other people's copyrights, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35230	Thank you. National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 40th amendment. Thank you. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk emissary of Milena Bycanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35231	So, Article 42. - Penalties. We are in our Parliament club, considering this member of the law, we have come up with the idea that this punishment in attitude 2 – a fine of 100 to a million dinars will be fined by a person for a violation, a publisher, a legal person, or an entrepreneur, a fine of between 50 and 250 thousand dinars, and in paragraph 2, he says – if he sells a textbook, a manual and teaching material at a price higher than the highest retail price with VAT. We thought it wasn't enough punishment and that it should go to this first part of the member being led under Section 1, where the penalty for the violations that are listed from one million to two million dinars. You've appreciated it, you've adopted our amendment. Why do we think we're right? Because first of all, there is a clear instruction, the price of the textbooks is determined, the highest possible price is known and the publisher knows that, and indeed, should not enter the illegal activities that will gain a large amount of material gain. I just see, how can I tell you, in this law and in this article that we have proposed one educational measure. Let's give up thinking that we can do corrupt activities, that we can go into crime without being sanctioned enough. We have warned this member, so let him who loves see what he will do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35232	Thank you. National MPs Anamarija Vicek, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted together to the 42nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a national emissary, Anamaria Vicek.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35233	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, MPs and MPs, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. This is one of those amendments that was accepted by the Ministry of Education and I would like to express the great satisfaction and happiness of the MPs of the SVM Group. In fact, we felt that it was extremely important that, in addition to the fact that we have achieved that the Law on textbooks is in line with the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, which is an extremely important item, that we also take care of it and that there is no discrimination. In the Law against Discrimination, that is, the Law on Discrimination, as it can also be called, it is extremely important to avoid direct or indirect discrimination. This would, of course, be indirect discrimination if members of national minorities were to pay a higher price for textbooks, which would also be translated from the Serbian language. We find it extremely important that, in any case, when it comes to the use of the right, or the right of national minorities, it should be done to the full extent that, even in these indirect cases, when there is such a risk of discrimination, there is no such thing as this. I think it is also very important to point out that in that period before this Law on textbooks, that is, this proposal on textbooks, came to the Assembly, in that previous period when the previous version of the text of the law came to the Assembly, I in writing gave suggestions to the ministry and one of these suggestions written was accepted in another member, to whom this member is now also concerned, it was accepted that the price of textbooks translated into the language of the national minority could not be higher than the price of textbooks which is original in Serbian. This amendment to Article 42 is purely a technical alignment with the provision of another member of the law. We believe, in any case, that sanctions should be imposed, similar to those just before our colleague Bicanin said, because people simply don't take things seriously unless there are sanctions. In this way, simply by introducing a fine to a greater extent, it can be guaranteed that members of the national minority will be entitled to the right that will practically mean the prevention of discrimination. I would just like to point out once again, since this is now the last amendment accepted by the ministry, which was submitted by the SVM parliamentary group, I would just like to stress one more thank-you for the open co-operation of the ministry with our parliamentary group, as well as to stress that, of course, we will vote in favour of this law in the voting day. It is extremely important to stress also that this law represents a major step forward for education in the languages of national minorities, precisely because it is largely agreed, practically in certain parts, in certain members it is to the maximum extent in line with the National Minority Councils Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35234	The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Aleksandar Markovic, Nenad Nikolic, Mirjana Andric and Sonja Vlahovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanović and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Radic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The amendment, which was added after article 46a, was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35235	Thank you. In its second position, Article 47 speaks of the publication of a public call for applications for the approval of missing textbooks and manuals and teaching materials. The ministry will call within a month of the date of entry into force of the sublegal acts, calling for Article 13 and Article 15, the views of this law. We have proposed an amendment that reads: "The maximum retail price of textbooks will be determined from school 2018/2019. A year. Decision setting out the maximum retail price of textbooks for school 2018/2019. The year shall be published at the latest on the day of publication of a public call from the List referred to in Article 46a. Article 1 The requirement to determine when we're actually going to apply the law was a cause and we're going to see it in Article 48, which is one of the last members. The fact is, we need to bring in all kinds of sublaws. Here, on this amendment, I have a suggestion for the Ministry. So, if I were you, during the autumn 2015 session of the Assembly, I would ask for at least one public hearing, with the Committee, with whom you will, on the course of law preparation and at least one more year in the regular spring. You can't formally, as Ministry, make an appointment, but if I were you, I would certainly, in cooperation with the Committee, try to hold at least two public hearings on the whole preparation of the law before this public call for school 2018 is called.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35236	Thank you. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35237	Thank you. Here's why. So, in Article 48. The bill shows – Application for the approval of textbook manuscripts for school 2016/2017. the year shall be submitted within 30 days starting on 1 September 2015, in accordance with the rules applicable until the date of entry into force of this law and, of course, Article 20 paragraph 17 of this Act, which states that, at the request of the issuer, it shall provide evidence of the fees paid for the expert assessment. So, this school year, you buy books a lot. I mentioned that a Belgrade mom showed me the price for the fifth grade of 9,943,35 dinars. For the next school year, it will be under the current law, therefore, under the existing Law on textbooks that are in force until the day of entry into force of this law. Under this law, she's only there next year. In addition to the amendment, which already has an eagle here to be deleted, we shortened the practical possibility that was planned, we deliberately set up such an amendment so that I could suggest what is related to the amendment to Article 47, which is that the Ministry of Education is waiting for a lot of work in the application of this law. It is not impossible, and it is also one of the most well-intentioned suggestions that I share with you and with the public, just because of the experience in lawmaking, it is not impossible to, without the support of the Education Committee, at which, through public hearings or reports on the application of the law, have meetings, I hope, during 2016, that you will come to us in the Assembly with amendments and additions to laws that are not applicable. What would you say in the movies? Believe me, I know what I'm saying. Thank you for the patience you've heard me say. I hope there will be good attention to the application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35238	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Members of the 49th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Marjanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Higher Education. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35239	Thank you. Article 1 in its first position, which dealt with this, contains all the trouble of reforming higher education and applying Bologna, in order to enable the mobility of students and to ensure that our higher education is not an obstacle, but a broad path without any obstacles, stairs and elevators, along with the education of all those studying in the European Union. This position 1 reads - In the Law on Higher Education (“Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia”), no. 76/05, that's 2005, 100/07, that's 2007 - authentic interpretation, was about how many deadlines, 97/08, that's 2008, 44/10, that's 2010, 93/12, that's 2012, 89/13, that's 2013, 99/14, that's 2014 and 45/15 - authentic interpretation, on the second basis, but anyway, 2015). So if you count it, from the beginning of law-making, seven changes and authentic interpretations. It in itself, that you do not know the structure and content of the law, gives a clear message of how difficult it is to change what I call a narrative in higher education, to the common damage. But that's the process. There's nothing you can do about it. The current change that we are offered is that the number of test deadlines and dates of maintenance of the test deadlines are determined by the statute of an independent higher education institution. As we said in the debate in principle, we object to the transfer to universities the responsibility of negotiating the number of deadlines with colleges. All estimates of this – well, great, now they won't come before the government to ask for more deadlines or to ask for a different number of points, I don't think they'll be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35240	Mrs. Komic, your parliamentary group has no more time. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35241	I'll use another five minutes. The respected chairman, respected Minister Verbic, is a member of the most inefficient government in the world, which is particularly important and particularly negative in the area of education. This member and this amendment of the law to which, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, I have submitted an amendment, it most drastically shows. You, Mr. Verbich, not knowing where you're going and what you're going to do with higher education, are transferring responsibility to colleges...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35242	Mr. Vesenović, I would only ask you to talk about the amendment, since you were not present at the National Assembly until now, the whole afternoon and afternoon debate was only about amendments, only on the subject. I would ask you to keep talking in that spirit.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35243	Mr. Becic, please read the amendment and the law. So I went into the O.R. and I started discussing the law on which I submitted the amendments, and I've been here since the first minute, and I'm asking you not to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35244	But you've been talking for over a minute and haven't mentioned your amendment yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35245	Mr. Becic, I'm explaining the amendment, please take my amendment into your hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35246	That's why I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35247	Mr. Verbich... You've taken 30 seconds from me, Mr. Becic. So, Mr. Verbiæ, in this way with this law on amendments and additions to the law, show this article how inefficient you are. So you, responsibility for how high education works, leave it to colleges and universities. The state is withdrawing from higher education. One of the basic areas regulated by the Law on Higher Education, the way knowledge is determined, the quality of students' knowledge you drop out of the hands of the state. You say, let the deans, let the rector, because they're actually incoherent bodies who make those decisions together with the college councils, is that right, let them set the number of test deadlines, so let them compete who will be more courteous, let me say, to the students, just so that in the fall, or in winter, depending on which time they are being examined, students don't come to protest in front of your windows, because you're really afraid of them. And you're afraid of them because you didn't do anything for higher education. You're afraid of them because 52% of the graduate students and those who finished high school without a job. You're afraid of them because this government is inefficient. This amendment that I have submitted to this law, and as every law I have read, analyzed, consulted with people and members of the PRECRET Movement and outside the PRECRET Movement, so with people who understand each other, Mr Verbic in higher education, they said that such a provision that you have proposed would cause chaos at the university. It's a mess at the university that's going to be on for the next school year. I proposed that a minimum number of deadlines should be set and two additional deadlines should be prescribed, and that is the number of deadlines tested in this country and this present and former country, which was mostly the number of deadlines tested that met all those who were eager to learn and wanted to finish college. You make the criteria according to the worst, Mr. Verbich. You make criteria that go in favor of ignorance and not knowledge. And, without knowledge, there is no progress, and there is no progress in the economy, and there is no progress in the country, Mr. Verbic. What was the problem, if you had considered this amendment at all and what would have been the problem if you had explicitly set the number of test deadlines. You said, at least five, you can do two more exams. You may have been able to propose three more test deadlines, but here we can get to absurdity, to have more test deadlines than the day of the year. So, what we talked about could happen, that the test deadlines overlap, that June continues in July, July to August, August in September, so there are some other things, Mr. Verbic at the university other than the deadlines examined. There are lectures, there's practice, there's dual education, Mr. Verbic. There's no dual education if students don't go to practice, when law school students don't go to court, don't go to jail, don't go to psychiatry, don't go to some other institution where they need to practice. Mr. Verbich, you're not going to understand that by all accounts. You, Mr Verbic, have thus locked the fate of higher education in the coming period. Another question to Mr Verbic – what about the science projects for next year? Who's going to finance the science projects for next year, Mr. Verbic? You forgot to call the competition. Mr. Verbic, it would be best for both you and the students to resign. The best thing to do is, this law shows that you don't have a strategy. There is no dual education, you said - let the colleges themselves determine the number of exam deadlines, let the colleges themselves finance, because you don't give them money, or you don't give them scientific areas, etc. You leave both students and their parents, who have no funds, due to reduced salaries and pensions, or to pay those tuitions and everything else they pay. This is how you raise your hands from higher education. Accept this amendment at least, admit your mistake, admit that you went to demagogue, not to help with higher education.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35248	Since we have a full list, let me see the order. However, the word has Minister Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35249	Dear MPs, I must respond to these comments, to the academic community. If I were a professor of university, I'd just be kind of offended by this kind of exposure, because I can't believe that the university community can't handle the problem of the number of deadlines tested. Because if something needs to be arranged, an independent, independent higher education institution, then it's among other things, and the way they're going to question students' knowledge. So I think this is the right measure. And if we want to raise our competences, all the participants in higher education, then we need to raise our responsibilities. And we really want universities to be as integrated as possible, that the more they make decisions that go on and on, and I think this is the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35250	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35251	Dear colleagues and colleagues, on this case we see that each of us has a different view of both other matters and this case. I don't mind a colleague suggesting a minimum number, or a maximum or some limit between a minimum and a maximum, that's his right and that's no problem. I don't think it's any mistake for the ministry to decide to transfer responsibility to colleges, or university, because so far, we've had cases of early school year and other times of protesting students who want to have another or two exams. Was that at all colleges? Well, no, there were no such protests in some colleges. Just because colleges are now going to determine universities, it's going to be a lot easier. I've never met any student who complains to me about a number of deadlines, and everyone mostly complains that there are few deadlines. I think we need to meet the students, allow them to regulate their test obligations more easily through several deadlines, and we who work in education need our own personal example to make sure those kids get out of college with sufficient and quality knowledge that they can apply tomorrow in practice without so much worrying about whether there will be four, five, six, or not knowing how many test deadlines. Now, to be honest, if someone asked me to figure out how many deadlines there would be, normally I could say a number, it's not a problem, but I wouldn't be happy with what I suggested. Because different colleges have different needs. I think this is a good move from the ministry to transfer, to delegate responsibility to the university, and practice will show whether we were right or wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35252	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I absolutely agree with your explanation why you rejected Mr. Janko Veseinovic's amendment. What I don't understand until the end, and when it comes to the intensities of the applicant of this amendment, is he advocating the ethic of the university, or high school institutions, or advocating for the affirmation of the principles of autonomy of the university. My opinion is that the bill, which you explained, made the government go after afirming the principle of autonomy of the university, i.e. to affirm the principle of autonomy of high school institutions. This principle includes, among other things, a right that has not existed so far, so the right of high school institutions themselves to set the number of test deadlines. I think it's totally fine. It's the autonomy of the university, to say the circle is complete. The question arises – why would the state intervene in this matter in the number of deadlines examined. So I don't see any reason to legislate the number of deadlines examined. If we were to go by that logic that the law prescribes the number of test deadlines, as is now the case, formally and legally possible, it is not disputed, but if we were to make this logic that the number of test deadlines is prescribed by law, then we could also prescribe it by law, for example. The number of students, which every university can enroll, whether budgeted, whether self-financed. Then there would be a question -- where would it take us all and what would remain of that university autonomy, for which I guess every one, who was once a student, or who was still working at university and who had some emotion towards the university, should stand up for that principle? What I think is good in this solution is that now colleges, or universities, or I would like it to be so, that when it comes to the number of deadlines tested, they will negotiate with students' associations, which exist at each university, or at each university, on what is the optimal number of deadlines tested for that school year. Then we'll just avoid this situation that Mr. Vesenovic was talking about, which is that we may have, perhaps, difficult to say, student protests, but some dissatisfaction with the number of deadlines tested. So, when universities, or universities, are, i.e. Headship of the university or university, agreements with representative associations of students on the number of deadlines examined, then, I'm sure we'll avoid the mass dissatisfaction of students with the number of test deadlines. Of course, there will always be individual cases of students who are unhappy with the number of test deadlines, but some mass dissatisfaction certainly won't be. Furthermore, I think this solution from the bill is good and because it cultivates the specificities of certain high school institutions. So it's not the same when you have a high school institution that deals with social sciences, which deals with natural and mathematical sciences, technical sciences, medical sciences, etc. Mr. Vesenovic spoke about the need for dual education at universities as well. There should be, but the fact is that so far this principle of dual education, when it comes to the higher-school system in the Republic of Serbia, has not been implemented to the end. To be perfectly honest, and Mr. Vesenović and I, we're both lawyers, we're both done, if I'm not wrong about the same law school, so we haven't practiced much practical teaching either he or I. I can say for myself, I'm very little, but it doesn't seem to me very much. I think that this is exactly how the number of test deadlines would go to allow students to have much more practical classes than this has ever been the case. I completely agree with the fact that students need to leave enough space aside from theoretical education for them and for practical teaching, but I think that the solution to the bill, to such dual higher education, is absolutely not in the way. One more thing, and that's it. The decision of the bill is good and because we have, in the last few years, an increasing number of students who simply do not want to be burdened by their parents. There are many valuable and smart children who are educated at our universities and at our universities, whether they are state or private, who are working, who are now able to make their duties easier at universities, or colleges, even when it comes to passing exams to comply with their, conditionally speaking, extracurricular obligations. Of course, I really do not, without any intention, enter the daily political controversy with Mr. Veselinović, about which you have reduced wages, pensions, how poor students etc. What my experiences are, is that there are a lot of students who fight for themselves and finish college, while at the same time providing some money with college funds, that is, to provide for themselves, if they are, for example. in the position of self-financing students to provide funding from which they will be educated. And they're not on the burden of their parents. There are, of course, those spoiled children who expect not only to be given money but to graduates from colleges instead, but such spoiled children have always been and always will be. What encourages me is that there are a lot of students who are really lionish fighting themselves and who are finishing college and that they are working together with the university and thus providing funds for both their education and their allowance and for paying the apartment, etc. etc. So, I think this solution is good for a whole series of reasons, and it's a good thing you didn't accept Mr. Veselinovic's amendment and that you remained consistent in defending this principle of university autonomy, because I repeat once again, allowing universities or colleges to set themselves the number of deadlines examined. I guess, and I want it to happen in agreement with student associations. We're going to build this building called an autonomial and free university, to finish it off.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35254	I thank you, Mr. Martinovic. There's a lot of people on the line. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35255	Thank you. Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I must admit that I now have mixed feelings, on the one hand, I am pleased that the amendment promoter has finally started to explain and defend his amendments, it has not been the practice of the last days. He's probably overcome some fears, and that's what's good. On the other hand, I am not satisfied with the fact that the independent MP was coming out of the agenda again, talking about things that are not part of the agenda today, he mentioned the efficiency of the government, whether it is effective or not. I agree that today's amendment promoter is effective in certain disciplines, but we're not going to talk about it now. In any case, I suggest that this amendment be rejected for all of the reasons we've heard from previous speakers. I ask the question – who is the problem with university autonomy? Why would it bother anyone? Isn't that civilization fluid? Isn't that what we fought for? Isn't that the current of a modern, rule of law, state-of-the-art state? I was starting to assume that the professor of college, the doctor of science, shared these views. For all these reasons, I suggest we reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35256	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I suggest that we don't deal with this discussion too long, and the issue of this amendment and the other amendments to this law is interesting. If not for another reason, then as much as I think, as much as we have proposed amendments to this law, we have so many different visions and different possible solutions. No matter how small, everyone has a proposal of their own that this issue should be settled. In addition to the proposal contained in the proposed text of the law, we also have proposals to keep the previous solution from the existing law, meaning it previously applied to fixed four deadlines, to introduce a fixed number of five deadlines, with precisely specified maintenance periods, then four deadlines but that it could be completed with two more, possibly, in accordance with an independent decision of the higher school institution or five deadlines, but that the institution itself determines if they would be organised. In the end, we have what we heard a little while ago. Different sightings, we can talk about them today. I'll agree first in one sentence with everything that my colleagues have brought out, and it's about university autonomy. It makes sense, and I believe that if he wants to put his hand on his heart honestly, everyone will. It certainly makes sense, and what we heard earlier, absolutely did not serve anything but the opportunity to raise the voice again, raise the tone and use that coin – an inefficient government. Let's not lie to each other, that was it, and there's no deeper sense in that. I am convinced that whoever used those words to give up on them, too, would be very happy to do so. Why? Sam brought the issue of inefficiency in connection with the number of test deadlines to be provided. If so, if it is ineffective for one who provides an opportunity for a number of test deadlines, I can conclude that, you heard just before all the solutions were proposed, with this solution, then it turned out to be the most inefficient of all the amendments, and I'm sure he won't agree with such an epithet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35258	The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35259	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, as you have heard from my party colleagues, I join them and believe the proposed amendment has been rejected justifiably and for several reasons. First, the proposed amendments to the Higher Education Act provide for each higher education institution to determine on its own the number of test deadlines in the school year, i.e. to regulate the specified matter by its internal acts, i.e. The statutes of the university. Why is that? Namely, each higher education institution has its own specificities relating to the scope of the materials to be learned, but also in the way of passing the exams. I would say that there are no easy and difficult colleges, but you have to learn it fat to learn it, but you have to keep in mind the differences in teaching principles, in the way you conduct practical classes, i.e. exercises, in the number of students attending a certain university, etc. It's not the same and it doesn't matter if it's for example. exercise, i.e. He's a practical teacher at the lab, let's say in the anatomical room at our place in medicine, so-called Institute items, whether it is necessary to carry out professional practice in the form of, say, medicine from the third year when clinical cases begin or just sit in the amphitheater and listen to the lecture. I believe that higher education institutions themselves are the most related matter of success on the test deadlines, so they will agree to form their position on the number of deadlines tested. In the end, I believe that the decision to return ingenuity to colleges to determine the number of test deadlines is another proof of the affirmation of autonomy, both of the universities in general and of each higher education institution individually, because autonomy is essentially the right to establish rules of study. For these reasons, I believe that the proposed amendment, as well as any other proposed amendments with the same or similar content, should be rejected in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35260	The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35261	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, spoke about absurdities when we talk about jurisdiction and transfer from state to university. What you have well noticed, Mr. Minister, is that I do think that it has brought itself into question as a professor and a work, because his colleagues certainly do not share such views that universities are unable to organise work within the test deadlines, and even worse, as he said there would be a situation of advocacy of professors to students. Not only does he not understand the essence of this bill at all, but he has questioned himself that he does not understand the relationship of professors and students. It's a two-way street. It is a relationship that grows and gives agreement on how long the study will take. It's a relationship that needs to show a tighter relationship at the end of the study where students will have a stronger relationship through their professors to the economy. That's the point when we talk about dual education. Finally, it should be said, and remind the promoter that he was a member of a political party that stood up for university autonomy in the 1990s. At the time, she did not insist on state intervention, and then it was politically incorrect. Now simply by coming out of a certain political option, and for which you were not elected by the citizens, you are in a position to exempt your opinion and seek state intervention on issues that are not at all the subject of any university's work. It is therefore totally acceptable why you, as minister, stood at your stand and made such a proposal and did not accept such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35262	The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35263	Dear Vice President Becic, I think the amendment should be rejected. In the opening part, let me also say one denial of the insults that have fallen on Mr. Minister's account. Just tell Mr. Veselinović that it's not true...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35264	Mr Atlagic, I ask you not to mention other MPs, not to replicate, that as the other MPs speak about the amendment, because I cannot allow it to speak out of the agenda, because there are more elected MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35265	I'll talk about the amendment, and I won't get out of the circle of what's not about the amendment, and allow for truth and justice, because it's cloudy here, Mr. Minister, and his resignation has been sought. It is not true that he should resign and it is not true that nothing has been done. I'll list seven elements that, if I may, Mr. Vice President and if you're listening to what I'm saying right now, Mr. Minister has done, and it's said he hasn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35266	Mr. Atlagic, I have to interrupt you because you're not talking about the amendment. If you don't know what the amendment is on the agenda, I'll read it to you, and you can't say what the minister said. You can only talk about the amendment submitted by MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35267	I'm sorry you're not listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35268	I'm listening, and maybe it's better if I don't listen to you, because then I wouldn't have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35269	That'll be a public assessment, but let me explain. It is not true that I am not talking about the amendment and what Mr. Vesenovic was saying and what he suggested. So, once again I say, for the sake of truth and justice, about the attack on the minister, and about the amendment, because it's a high school institution, and Mr. Minister has proposed to amend the amendment, if you followed here, it's not true that he didn't do anything here. The Law itself on textbooks that we adopted tells us how many ministers did it, and before that, the ministers didn't do it. Next, the matter of inspection, and it's said to be nothing. The question of trips that the predecessors didn't do... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35270	It's not worth it, Mr. Atlagic, you haven't mentioned anything from the amendment in three minutes and I have to interrupt you. So they spoke before you seven, eight MPs, all talking about the amendment. You keep saying, you're even saying that the minister has given a correction to the amendment, and that's not true. So, Mr. Atlagic, this time I must interrupt you. Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35271	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, MPs, so it's always like this when it comes to the number of deadlines examined. That's what happened on the board. So everyone wants to express their opinion. I promise I'll be brief at least. I think the ministry has made the right decision for this very reason, because I don't think we'd ever agree on what number it is, right? I only apologize if I could finish. So this is the right decision and what I'd really like to mention. People who decide in those higher education institutions, which will be the number of test deadlines, when it will be held. Besides knowing the specificities of their college, of course their own students' interests are in the first place, which I think is fine. So these are all reasons why I really think that this autonomy given to higher education institutions is one real decision and that, I would say, it will in no way create any atmosphere, no chaos, no disorder, but rather that they will do things in the best possible way. Once again, I think it's mildly incorrect to talk about people who need to decide how it's spoken. Still, they are people who are where they are, thanks to their knowledge and reputation, and that we must not lose sight of it in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35272	Thank you. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35273	Thank you. In essence, this debate on the amendment was, you could say, very correct. I defended the view that the state should determine the frameworks of the number of deadlines examined at the university. Some of my colleagues don't think it's necessary and say it's ethics. I don't think it's an etatization of a certain framework for higher education. Why? Because if we went to the university's absolute autonomy, then the Higher Education Act would only have one member. It's a university. Universitys regulate internal organization issues by their acts point. It's absolute autonomy. How are they financed? How are they questioned? What frames do they have? Do they get a license? Do they have credentials? So that wouldn't be a matter of state. It would be a question of students, student agreements and college leadership. That would be absolute autonomy, which I think, some people here stand for. I don't think there's absolute autonomy in any area, social, that's relevant to the development of society, and neither is the university. In that sense, I remain firm with my position that the state should be asked about this area regardless of the ratio of power, as it was on Sutjesca ten to one, when it comes to discussions on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35274	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35275	Ladies and gentlemen, the number of deadlines tested and the definition of the test deadlines is an essential question of the content of the Law on Higher Education, gentlemen. So we proposed the following -- the number of test deadlines at our universities is five according to the exam calendar and that's January, February, June, July and September, period. The calendar of the exams is published at the beginning of each school year. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished guests and guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the proposed solution, this amendment containing such a proposal for a solution does not interfere with the autonomy of the university, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, because universities and if the idea to define the five deadlines examined continues to have the right to determine the study programmes respected by gentlemen, which is part of the autonomy of the university. They still have the right to have financial resources at their disposal, which is part of the university's autonomy. The universities still have the right to choose teachers and associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, which is the autonomy of the university. The government should provide order and such a proposal, which today defends the minister of education, Mr Verbic, says the government cannot secure order over one basic thing. And then what does the government do because it can't secure order? Then he tries to transfer responsibility to universities by calling for autonomy. Autonomy will be preserved, gentlemen, with five deadlines defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35276	Time. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35277	Thank you, Your Honor. Although these proposed amendments only change four members, these are very big changes and as with some members of the previous Law on textbooks, we saw in the debate in the principle of this law that individual members of the parties of the ruling majority and opposition agreed. You, Minister, have said that this area is being arranged, and in this way and these proposed changes and additions make only more chaos. You wrote in an explanation that the proposed solutions will not negatively affect the quality of higher education and that the non-compliance with this law could have adverse consequences. I think quite the opposite of all that. I also think that some colleagues in previous discussions did not understand what we were talking about. The fact that the responsibility for determining the number of test deadlines will be transferred to independent higher education institutions, i.e. colleges, does not necessarily mean that there will be a greater number of test deadlines, i.e. major abuses. It may occur that some colleges have one or two regular exam deadlines, and by the way they have seven, eight extraordinary test deadlines that will be expensive. It is a number of test deadlines, but it is not favourable for students. There are different kinds of higher education institutions. I can agree with some of the previous speakers with different situations and needs, but this is not resolved in this way, and if you do not like our proposal to be five test deadlines then adopt some of the proposals of previous speakers or at least limit it, please specify a minimum number of test deadlines.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35278	Thank you. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35279	Can I finish my sentence? I'll agree with the previous speakers, maybe that means that you want to wash your hands of everything because God, the minister's job would be wonderful if there weren't these boring students who would be here any minute to ask for more rights or more exam deadlines or a change of program or something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35280	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. The word is by Professor Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35281	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, like all the amendments at point one, I'm just thinking now I'm going to pick up and say we're going to try to supplement autonomy, if any, in this law that I'm assessing as not the best solution, which has been on the scene for ten years. When the law was passed, I asked Minister Vuksanovic to come out and give us an animation of what it would look like and when the items were shortened from two-semester to semester. Introducing so many and so many deadlines, it is not possible to do, of course, that the exam is done, so it is not known which, someone has heard two-monthly some one-monthly items cutting even three-monthly in two two-monthly, that Bologna has done a great evil, has continued to learn instant, and besides being brought under a double number of deadlines, the bigger the problem itself was, in principle, the problem of the term, because it cannot be determined in advance, nor to set up a timing, a list in January because it is not known, which is even greater, introduces for ordinary exams commission examinations, so that it is likely to prevent dishonest actions and agreements on exams and funding and sub-payment of teachers. It is impossible for three teachers to gather in strong cathedrals to hold three or four exams at the same time. That's why there's a need for greater flexibility that law cannot allow, and the dean gentlemen can take it upon themselves, so let them bend a little bit of their autonomy, because there's no autonomy here, even though it's all declared. You in some colleges have a Templet on which you have to write complete medicine, Latinized terms to write on Cyrillic, orders, because your salary is shrinking. It's incomprehensible that, say, you pass some tests with typing. Well, it's not the same as laying oral, written, practical. How to determine the test deadlines here? It will be such a galatija that from the cathedral to the cathedral will depend. It's hard to tell by law. What's he gonna do when physiology takes the test and it's finally on him? After all the trouble to the test, and no oral. The test can take a hundred of them in that day, and the oral one if he lays down what he needs four commissions. How do you find that three cases in ten days put people in four commissions? So, a very great evil has been done by changing that fantastic system, in which it was known through the Community of College what and in whatever subject may be a condition for next year, and we've been limping with 48 points for ten years and constantly repairing the law. Well, does it need more proof how bad the law is? It is not only that the law per se is bad, but it is an accident that the staff will be a questionable character, content of knowledge and concept, because what the European Community is testing we have for high school and for basics, which we have not been able to destroy, and for colleges more or less. They are still burning and burning across Europe and around the world, already in an earlier way formatted personnel. Of course, like one of these very brilliant, smart children, bright ones, who passed Bologna. Fortunately for Serbia, everyone does not apply it as some do somewhere, so it just remained so destructive. By law, they introduce points, but it's a different way of working and giving more ways for permanent contemplation, permanent memory and retention of knowledge. With this going, maybe it wasn't a better solution, but here you go, so figure out how many categories the test deadlines are needed, because it can't be done for the whole college uniquely how things go and how things are tested, but that's autonomy, in one of the points of 6) there's an organization of classes, how the exams are organized. Thus, such heterogeneity could not be imagined before the adoption of this law, even a few years after the adoption, and then the appetites of those who thought they were all saints and groups of oligarchs around the governing bodies, made such curricula and programs that they audited almost every year. They enroll in one program of children, and they're supposed to end up on the other. They no longer know if they've entered three test deadlines or five. Who in the course of their studies can change their study conditions by passing the exams? It's all happening, and they got the licenses, they picked the deans, they finished the job. I am for a certain degree of ethics. The state has to ask itself, 90% of the money that only goes to pay, even if these wages are more evenly distributed. It's a lot of good where the state should be asking a bigger question, and this may be the least pity to leave this to the colleges, that in the way they've organized it, they end up going out with students. They worked alone, fell down and killed themselves, so let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35282	Thank you, Dr. Pocuric. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35283	Dear Vice President, I hope to be in the amendment now. So it's about the amendment and the bill where the number of deadlines are transferred from state to university. I think this is one of the most revolutionary things in the last 20 years in the area of higher education, Mr. Minister. This transfer to higher education institutions by its instruments, and first of all by the statutes of the university, determines the number of points is the right thing to do. This is what not only our students expect, but also teachers who are committed to their work, who love education, who love students, who love efficiency, who love our students as best and as fast as they finish their studies. The question arises – what do we have against students taking exams every month? Who does that belong to? If we give them a test period every month, and I guess they'll finish school before school, we'll reduce the duration of schooling. The second part of this bill, it's about a year to get them to go after school, and that's the thing. Let me give you an example. Since they are one-month exams, if they listen to one semester under the assumption of Bologna, which we don't take into account here today, that the teacher and student centre of the education system, if the student regularly comes to school, regularly performs exercises, regularly doing seminars, the professor follows him, the monitoring is important, then he can very easily come in June for the exam, in January or June, if he is two-monthly. Suppose 60% passed in the first period. What do we have against him getting his exam in June, not waiting for three months? How long does this extend our students' education? So, what's this about? All those who think students should have four deadlines or five are actually fighting to make our students more efficient, and besides that we teachers work harder. He's throwing us to work from nine to five in the afternoon. It's Bologna, gentlemen professors. There are you here and in this room teachers listen. So, he's looking for our larger monitoring activity, so even the number of deadlines will be optimal. I appeal to student parliaments – gentlemen of the students, it is in your hands, as of tomorrow, since the deadlines are determined by colleges, do not allow four deadlines to be entered into the statutes of the university, but every month, because it will make it easier for you to take the exam and pass the studies and get better quality of education, and even before you finish schooling, which is in the interest of you, of your parents and states, and first of all, this minister and this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35284	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Marović and Dr Blaže Bradic. The word is from the academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35285	Thank you, dear Mr. Becic. Dear Ministers Verbic and his associates, colleagues and colleagues, I did not get the word for a moment when the amendment of another colleague was discussed, so I must now start to say, that is, to offer friendly advice, not only to fellow Members, but also to politicians and so on. Experts, to be very careful when using the concept of dual education. The concept of dual education should be well studied, since there are great dangers. Now let's do what the subject of the amendment - university autonomy, etatization. You know what, by transferring responsibility for deadlines to independent higher education is no greater autonomy, nor is giving a framework of ethics. I had this accident to teach at many universities in the EU and everywhere the state prescribes a framework and much stricter than this framework, even there is a second condition – the first and second time passing exams and the end. But still, we live in one period of transition, so we have to keep in mind everything, to get out to the students, we have to go out to the student council, even though their enthusiasm after the first attack has gone down. I would still disagree that if I called it that, we have some agreed education to negotiate with students, with representative associations. The state must have a framework. The specifics of the university are something else and can make some more deadlines possible. However, fellow MPs, you have managed to convince me that my amendment is wrong. So many amendments and so many different solutions, obviously there's something wrong. I'm just wondering how many colleges and universities are gonna solve that question? Won't, as we had, be five years in Belgrade, four years in the course of our studies, and three in Novi Sad? Later, of course, that changed. So, both solutions hide dangers, but in this situation we have to meet students, help them and adopt this, with only one note at the end for colleagues who have not worked in higher education and who do not know the analysis in both our and the world. The efficiency of the study grows with a reduction in the number of deadlines and an increase in the conditions for the next year's transition. That's the intensity we need to keep in mind. If we do not have in mind, no matter how much you disagree, the moment of truth will come, and that will be the negotiating chapter on this and our entry into the EU, and we will suddenly move to 60 points and suddenly to three or four, but how many deadlines the EU prescribes. So we have to be ready for those changes, too, for what's waiting for us. In the end, I say, we will support this law, because of students and because of the importance of education. After all, it has shown how many of us here, even groups of MPs, have two or three suggestions. So, absolutely nothing leads to this, but if we're not able to get along, I'm just wondering how universities and colleges are gonna get along. Once again, we will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35286	I thank you, Mr. Stojadinovic. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinkovic, Vesna Besarović, Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The word has a folk emissary of Milena Bycanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35287	I'm sorry, but I really need to join this discussion, given that the Social Democratic Party has tabled its amendment. He said to us: "It is added that this number cannot be less than four." Why did we think like this? Well, here, I'll start with the first assumption, which is -- we all have experience in education and we're all done with a defined number of exams. Is that why we're gonna say that our diplomas are less valuable? Is that why we're gonna say we're less qualified professionals? I don't think we're gonna tell. If the time has come to allow fellow students to have this at this time, for me an undefined number of test deadlines, because the fact that something is not framed as the smallest amount leads everyone to think that it will be bigger. So the frame isn't four, it's definitely going to be more, and no one thinks - and what if it's less? In our discussion, he's making an argument that there's going to be more. We're calling ourselves university autonomy. Why do I have the view that right now that there's gonna be more right now? That's what universities will determine for themselves. Of course, the study groups have always differed, by nature things have to differ, and it's not today's newspaper that we especially feed on by amending this member of the law. But in order to support what's new, we're going to meet the papers. If we say four years from now, because of the change of article 90. The law on higher education has become more successful students, shorter students, higher average grades, and overall on the Shanghai list, the University of Belgrade has grown, we say to ourselves, is our goal of 50 seats. I think if we can measure the results in this way, we'll be very encouraged to do something that's big, new, significant and that just seems like a small historic moment in the higher education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35288	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Anamaria Vicek. You have 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35289	Thank you. So, I've got 30 minutes left of the MP's time. Thank you. I would only like on behalf of our parliamentary group to support the amendment that we are now talking about because in the previous period I talked to students, as well as representatives of various universities, and they are all of the same opinion that some framework should be given in establishing the number of deadlines examined, precisely because there would be no abuse by the university, on the one hand, and on the other hand it is important to give autonomy to universities in identifying the number of deadlines examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35290	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic and together by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35291	Article 2 amends Article 124 of the basic law and says: "Students enrolled in the first year of primary studies", and now seven school years in a row since 2006/2007. by 2012/2013. years, "hold the right to finance from the budget for the longest year following the end of the regular duration of the studies. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Our proposal is to delete this amendment in addition to this proposal, and also to propose that these last amendments to the Law on Higher Education or to be a direct basis, a call to the Ministry to open a dialogue on higher education in the National Assembly, whether the Ministry has a completely new draft law or not. Because this member of the law shows you how much trouble we have, in communication theory it is called “a pink elephant in the room”, “pink elegant in the room, ” no one will see him. I don't know if this government is going to be able to open a dialogue, but it would be good if it happened by the end of this government's term.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35292	Thank you. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Komic and together by the MPs of Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35293	Article 3 The bill says that independent higher education institutions will agree their general acts with this law within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. We also suggest that this member be deleted, since we do not consider it a good solution for independent higher education institutions to decide on the number of deadlines tested, especially without restrictions. The fully well-intentioned argument is to limit itself to no less than four or no more than five, does not imply opposition to the solution made by the Ministry in the bill, or the Government as a Proposer, but rather to try to make sure through such a bad solution however that, under other laws and higher education institutions and the Ministry will be able to carry out their duties. My personal infidelity is that within three months, this higher education institution will really have all its acts in place, for many reasons. That's too short for them. I wish they could do it in a month and a half, but we know high school institutions and you'll have double damage, instead of just the damage you thought you'd avoid, which is that students address high school rock institutions. It's not a good idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35294	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs: academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice-President Becic, Honored Minister Verbic and Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, the Government proposes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, to the National Assembly to legally commit independent higher education institutions to bring their general acts into line with this law within three months. Our proposal, gentlemen, is respected, if the law is already amended, if independent higher education institutions are obliged to amend their general acts, to do so immediately before the beginning of the next school year, respected gentlemen, therefore, within no longer than 45 days. Because do you know what will happen, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament? Students and students will enter studies on a study programme, at an independent higher education facility, for example. When they read the Statute of the University where they study, where they are in their first year of study, they will find one piece of information, and when they read the Law on Higher Education, Honored Gentlemen, they will find other information there. What will be asked by our students and students, in what state they live, when it was not possible to arrange, to agree the general acts with what the law is and when they begin to study, they have no identical information or information about the Statute that is adapted to what is written in the law, gentlemen. I repeat the key word again, I mean for this bill, we need to secure order. The government needs to secure order, not run away from its responsibility, gentlemen. Please think about it one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35296	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35297	Article 4 speaks of the entry into force of the law and says the law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. We suggest that this member be deleted because we do not want this law to come into force. Now let's look at the little dates, let's see what it will look like when the majority comes into force, as early as it can be published by the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia on August 3, which means that it will come into force on August 11, which means that, if I count correctly,11. In November, it is necessary for all higher education institutions to have harmonised acts. Both you and we will be there on November 11th and not to be working on the raid and surprise, I will, on the week when the 11th of November, seek a report from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on harmonised sublaws and all acts, of all primary schools in Serbia, so that this law can be applied. Any move to announce the official messenger on August 3rd, move and deadlines and it is not impossible for the official messenger to be published tomorrow and that happens, but I assume that August 3rd will be published in the Official Messenger and eight days since then, and then it is 11. And 30 days after publication, they start obligations for higher education institutions and we'll be there with the hope that it will be applied as stated in the members of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35298	Excuse me, the word is Minister Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35299	The honourable MPs, the harmonisation of acts of independent higher education institutions and the law should not be such a problem, only in those higher education institutions which have in their statutes that the number of deadlines examined is in accordance with the law or that it is determined by law and they should change. For example, Belgrade University already has a number of test deadlines and not only a number, but they have names, January, April, June, September and October. So if they're already standing in that act, they won't have to do anything, so I guess even a good number of other universities have already arranged this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35300	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35301	Thank you. That's what I'm talking about, and that's why we need dialogue. You have an act of the university where there is January, April, May, which is not in "Bolonja", and now we're passing the law. It's not good. Open a dialogue on higher education, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35302	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. We are moving to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the laws on the basis of the education and training systems you have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradić and joint MPs Boris Stefanović, Gordana Komić, Balša Božović, Jovan Marković, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35303	We have before us a bill with a member who reads: deletes. So far, there has been a variety of folklore dialogues in this Assembly on why amendments are being submitted – it is being deleted and this is not the first law that has as one member – deleted. Of course, the only thing you can do when you get the text of the bill that says in its first article that the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System is deleted, in Article 144 paragraph 2, to be said, is deleted. As procedurally interesting as it may be for congregation records and future readers of congregation meetings, we deeply believe that this member should remain, as we deeply believe, that the provision that deletes the possibility, to retire by the end of the school year, is more of a provision that is in some kind of divide between municipal laws and wishes and the government's strategy to reduce the number of employees in the system of education, health and everywhere in the public sector, than will produce any positive consequences. It can be just trouble, and I'll repeat the case that someone who's employed in education, who's 40 years old in the fall, and who's 65 years old in March, and then we'll have a problem looking for a replacement for classwork, the work in question, by the end of the school year. The idea of working until the end of the school year makes sense because of the work process and this will not be saved, you will only create a possible problem for those who make us all here law enforcement and for whom education is done, and these are high school students.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35304	Members of the 2nd Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blažana Bradić and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komić, Balša Božović, Jovan Marković, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35305	The resulting amendment to the proposal for a law that has one member, amendment and addition, which reads, is deleted and, of course, Article 2 is deleted, which is prescribed when the law enters into force, i.e. on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, if we remind ourselves that the first real possibility of the Official Messenger being published on Monday is 11 August. It is good to know all those who have so far had the opportunity, in case this school year 2015/2016 works by the end of the school year with their generation of students or high school students, to know in time that they can't do it. The reasonableness of such a decision remains with all of us who will observe how many people will retire on the basis of this change and what good they will do in the education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35306	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on us not to adopt the amendment, or to adopt the law fully as proposed, for the reasons we have already exchanged with each other, when we have discussed here in principle. I am taking this opportunity to fulfill a promise made to my fellow Members on the committee responsible when we last met. I thank everyone for a good debate and congratulate everyone who has contributed, and this applies to all those present here, and to those who have proposed the law, and to all of us who have tried to make it better at an extremely good job. There's only one step left – let's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35308	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. I thank the MPs of the people, Minister Srdjan Verbic for his participation in today's session with his associates. Dear Members of the Parliament, given that the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday July 31st, 2015, starting at 16.50pm, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35309	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Special Conditions of Sale of Certain Immobilities in My Republic of Serbia I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law on special conditions of sale of certain immovableities in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – two abstentions – there are no, four of the 140 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At the title of the amendments in the same text, the MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the title of the law by MP Branko Karavidic. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 1st amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 1st amendment. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, with abstention – voted 11 out of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 143 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 142 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 2nd amendment in the same text, MPs Branko Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote nine of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 3rd amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 3rd amendment in the same text, MPs Branko Karavidic, Aleksandar Senic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic submitted. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Karavidic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Branko Karavidić and Aleksandar Senic have submitted their comments. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Ivan Jovanovic. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Vanja Vukic and joint MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against –no one, with abstention – there is no, 146 of the total of 147 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 143 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 145 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic submitted the 8th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Blagoja Bradic, submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Snezana Malovic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of new members 8a, 8b and 8v. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Aleksandar Senic submitted the amendment, with a correction proposing the addition of new members 8a, 8b and 8v. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment to Article 11 of the amendment has been submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted six of the 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted amendments suggesting that a new article 11a be added after article 11. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 151 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 148 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law on special conditions for selling certain immovableities in the possession of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, against – four abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft law on special conditions for selling certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia. I put to the vote the draft law on the payment of legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons who do not carry out their duties, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142 against – four abstentions – there is no vote, five of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 151 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Momo Colakovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS group, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law on the payment of legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons who do not carry out their duties, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, against – four abstentions – there are no votes, seven of the 150 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the payment of legal persons, entrepreneurs and individuals who do not carry out their duties. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – four abstentions – there is no vote, five of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm going over that amendment decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35310	On the 1st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstentions – there is no, 146 of the total of 148 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - two, abstentions - there is no, 143 of the total 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Biljna Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 147 of the total 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the DS Group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the DS Group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against – one, with abstention – there is no, 142 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidić and Dr Blaže Bradić, MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, MP Mr. Dejan Radenkovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against -one, the abstentions - there is no, 142 of the total 144 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 8th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 9th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 20 out of the total 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the 10th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 out of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - one, abstention - no, 140 of the total attendance of 143 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 out of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 16th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, a group of five MPs of the DS group and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the total 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 20th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, MP Ivan Jovanovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 21st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, MP Ivan Jovanovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 28th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, abstention – there is no, 145 of the total of 147 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, abstention – there is no, 145 of the total of 148 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – voted 15 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 31st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 33 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 34th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 35th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 36 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 37 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 39 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 40th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, abstention – there is no, 145 of the total of 148 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 143 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 46th Amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 47th amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 48th Amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 142 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 49th Amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 142 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 142 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 54th Amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 55th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 56th Amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 57th Amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 58th Amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 142 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 60th Amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted the amendment to Article 60. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 16 of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. Members of the 61st Amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 64th Amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 67 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I conclude: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 68 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I conclude: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 68th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I conclude: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 71 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 72 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I conclude: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 74 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I conclude: for - two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 75 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 76 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I conclude: for - two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I conclude: for - two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 78 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I conclude: for -one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 142 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I conclude: for - two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 81 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 out of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 82 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for - one, against - one, the abstentions - there is no, 142 of the total attendance of 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 84 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I conclude: for - two, against - one, abstention - there is no, there is no 141 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 85 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for - one, against - one, the abstentions - there is no, 142 of the total attendance of 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 86th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I conclude: for - two, against - one, abstention - there is no, there is no 141 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to article 86. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for - two, against - one, abstention - there is no, 143 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 87 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I am concluding the vote and I am saying: for - one, against - two, abstentions - there is no, 143 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 88 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for -three, against - none of the abstentions - have voted 143 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 89 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for - one, against - one, the abstentions - there is no, 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 90 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for - one, against - one, the abstentions - there is no, 145 of the total of 147 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 91 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for - one, against - one, the abstentions - there is no, 146 of the total 148 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 92 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for - one, against - one, the abstentions - there is no, 146 of the total 148 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that - 140, against - four abstentions - did not vote, five of the 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Public Debt Law I am putting to the vote the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -141 against - four abstentions - there are no, four of the 149 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 10 MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 142, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144, of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -134, against - four abstentions - there are no votes, eight of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the time-limits for the settlement of monetary liabilities in commercial transactions, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 135, v - two, abstentions – there is no vote, six of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic jointly submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – no one, with abstention – has voted six, of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 7 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 144 out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic jointly submitted the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 141 out of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic jointly submitted the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 139 out of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140, out of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on settlement deadlines for financial liabilities in commercial transactions, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -134, against - four abstentions - there is no vote, five of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the time-limits for the settlement of monetary obligations in commercial transactions. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK FOR THE PROJECT OF THE CIDIC CENTRES/A I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the Project Clinical Centres/A, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 140, against – no one, with abstention – has voted four out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK FOR THE PROJECT OF THE CIDIC CENTRE/B I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the Project Clinical Centre/B, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 142, no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – I am putting the proposal for a bill on how to determine the maximum number of employees in the public sector, in principle, to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -141 against - four abstentions - there are no, two of the total of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the international MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 145, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 7 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 146, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Lasslo Varg, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 145, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 7 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lasslo Varg. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 146, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, no one, no abstentions, has voted – 143 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, no one, against the abstentions, has voted – 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstentions, did not vote – 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against -no one, with abstentions, did not vote – 144 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, no one, no abstentions, has voted – 143 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Karavidic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, the abstentions, did not vote – 143 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, no one, against the abstentions, has voted – 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted – 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstentions, did not vote – 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 32nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted – 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the amendment of 33rd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstentions, did not vote – 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the draft law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees in general. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: for - 140, there are four, no abstentions, no vote – three of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees. I put to the vote the draft law on the Register of Employees, elected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons of the users of public funds, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141, there are three abstentions, no vote – three of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 144 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lasslo Varg. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against - one, the abstentions, did not vote – 144 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one, with abstentions, voted - 140 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted – 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Register of Employees, elected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons in public funds users, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus - three, the abstentioned, did not vote – three of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on the Register of Employees, Selected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons in the use of public funds. I put to the vote the draft law on the transport of freight in road transport, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against - no one with abstentions voted - five of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, one abstention, did not vote – 142 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 3rd amendment, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstentions, did not vote – 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstentions, did not vote – 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, no one, against the abstentions, has voted – 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted – 146 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 145 MPs, of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 145 MPs, of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted the name above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 MPs, of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 146 MPs, of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 145 MPs, of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 146 MPs, of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 MPs, of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted a name above members of 57th and a member of the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 147 MPs, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 147 MPs, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 MPs, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 59th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 146 MPs, of the total of 149 MPs present, for three, against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 60th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 MPs, of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 MPs, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned in favour of – two – 146 MPs, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 63rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 MPs, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting a vote on the bill on freight transport in road traffic, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 12 MPs, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the transport of goods in road transport. 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a PUBLIC TRANSPORT LAW IN DRUMS COOPERATION I am putting to the vote the proposal for a Law on the transport of passengers in road transport, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 13 MPs, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 16th Amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 147 MPs, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 MPs, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 147 MPs, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 MPs, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 146 MPs, of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has ever voted 145 MPs, of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there was no vote of 143 MPs, of all 145 MPs present, for – two, against – none, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 MPs, of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 MPs, of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 142 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 58th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 145 out of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliaments of the People's Parliaments, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga, submitted together to the 60th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 145 out of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 63rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 64 of the amendment, with correction, the National MPs of Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, no one, with abstentions, voted 142 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 65 of the amendment, the People's MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, no one, with abstentions, voted 142 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 65th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 66 of the amendment, a group of nine MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group tabled the amendment. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 66th Amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 67 of the amendment, the People's MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, no one, with abstentions, voted 142 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 68 of the amendment, the People's MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 141 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 68th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together to Article 74 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 141 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 74th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 146 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together to Article 75 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to Article 122 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 143rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 179th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 146 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting to the vote a bill on the transport of passengers in road traffic, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, no one, with abstentions, voted nine out of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed a bill on the transport of passengers in road traffic. We move to the 12th point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE PROGRAMME After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on textbooks to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – four, with abstentions, five of the 147 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments submitted by the MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no one, against anyone who is abstentioned, has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment includes MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, with a correction, a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, submitted. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment, with a correction, during the process of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted 15 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 3rd amendment, with a correction. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 141 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 139 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – one, abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – two abstentions – has voted 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, abstention – there is no, 144 of the total of 146 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, abstention – there is no, 144 of the total of 146 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to the 12th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 140 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 131 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, abstention – there is no, 144 of the total of 146 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 14 by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – three, abstentions – there is no vote, 140 of the total of 145 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, on the contrary, with abstentions, voted 133 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, no one, on the other hand, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted an amendment to Article 17. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, no one, on the other hand, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS, ZS, submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, no one, on the other hand, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention who has ever voted 141 out of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment on Article 17 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention in favour of – three – 143 out of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, on the contrary, with abstentions, voted 145 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted an amendment to Article 20. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, two – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 143 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, no one, on the other hand, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS, ZS, submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, on the contrary, has voted for one of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 135 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to the 20th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for nine, no one who is abstentioned has voted 137 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, on the contrary, with abstentions, voted 145 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention who has ever voted 141 out of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, on the contrary, with abstentions, voted 141 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—seven, on the contrary—there is no one who voted 139 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS, ZS, submitted the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, on the contrary, with abstentions, voted 145 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was filed by a group of seven MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, contrary – one, abstention – there is no vote, 143 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS, ZS, submitted the 22nd amendment with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, however, who is abstentioned, has voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, on the contrary, with abstentions, voted 142 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, no one who is abstentioned – has voted 139 out of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to the 23rd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, no one who is abstentioned – has voted 139 out of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare: no one, on the contrary, with abstentions, voted 145 out of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who has ever voted 143 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS, ZS, submitted the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, on the contrary, with abstentions, voted 141 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, on the contrary, has voted for one of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic Group – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, on the contrary, has voted for one of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against -one, the abstentions - there is no, 144 of the total 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs of the SDA SANDZAKA Group – Party for Democratic Action. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - three, abstentions - no, 140 of the total 146 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of five MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians and the People's MP, Olena Papuga. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 of the total 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the DS Group submitted to the amendment of 33rd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 139 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA SANDZAKA Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 33rd amendment, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - two, abstentions - there is no, 138 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 out of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 138 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 137 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs of the DS Group submitted to the amendment to Article 37. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 137 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA SANDZAKA Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - two, abstentions - there is no, 138 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by a group of seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 139 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted to the People's MP, Olena Papuga. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 138 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA SANDZAKA Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 145 of the total 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the DS Group submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which Article 46a is added after Article 46a. A group of seven MPs from the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 141 of the total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on textbooks in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, v – three, abstention – one, seven of the total of 148 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on textbooks. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139 against – three abstentions – there are no votes, five of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 143 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 140 of the total of 146 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 132 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic, and jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Jovana Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – four against – 143 out of the total of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic and jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – four against – 143 out of the total of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – four against – 143 out of the total of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-31-0.u35312	I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – two, abstention – one, five of the total of 147 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Higher Education. 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the laws on the fundamentals of the education and education systems I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the basis of the education and education system, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – two abstentions – there are no votes, four of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia and a group of eight MPs from the Democratic Party's Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic Group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia and a group of eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – three, abstention – one, did not vote one of the total 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the basis of an education and education system. National MP Ivan Jovanovic, at a session on July 27, 2015, at 12 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 29 July 2015, at 14 hours and 47 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against two abstentions, voted 137 out of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 29 July 2015, at 20 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 136 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of the session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
