ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-03-0.u22079	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 106 Members of the Parliament are present. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 154 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-03-0.u22080	Thank you. Mr President, I must express my satisfaction that we have at least this way to ask the government a question because last Thursday's session of the month when the government is supposed to be here and that we don't have an opportunity to answer our questions right now for six months, and last month of eight working days, we've only had the opportunity to take advantage of this, so here today is a good thing that we can finally use to ask questions. I would also take this opportunity to ask the question of the finance minister – who will answer for the fact that last December 8th of last year, the director of "Serbia" signed a loan on behalf of his company with domestic banks, six banks, different amounts of 20 to 30 million dollars, and all 200 million dollars. So, commercial banks are at stake, $200 is credited to the Republic of Serbia whose guarantee is the Republic of Serbia, and we gave that guarantee here at the end of 2014. The credit was taken under interest, if you remember, from 4.5 to 6%, plus a monthly, or a three-month dollar libor at present is 0.25%, plus a one-time margin of 1.5%. At that time, the value of the loan in euros was 162m euros. Today, the value of the euro loan is 178m euros, 16m euros more in less than two months. When I asked the question here, it was 4-5 in the morning when we adopted budgets, why we took a loan indexed in dollars when it was known that the dollar would increase in the next period and not in the euro, anyone who reads doesn't have to be an economics expert, enough to read business sides, it was clear to him what would happen, why was taken credit in dollars, indexed in dollars and not in euros, the director said – we pay in dollars, it doesn't matter. Only in this transaction so far is Serbia more in charge of 16m euros. If forecasts are made by the end of the year to level the rate of dollars and euros, the debt will be 200m euros or 40m euros more than when the debt is made. My question is today, when citizens are struggling to take credits in banks, indexed in Swiss francs, and for several weeks now, they've been looking for answers from the state in which they're going to help them, and there's no answer, except for the answer -- you're guilty, you're gambling, I'm now interested in who's going to be guilty of gambling on state money? Who will be to blame for losing 40m euros on this loan alone. Fortym euros are the gentlemen's 10% of the amount that will be saved by allegedly cutting salaries and pensions in 2015. Who's going to answer now? If the citizens are responsible for the loans they took in the Swiss francs, I ask if the director of "Srbigas" or the finance minister or prime minister will answer for gambling with the money of the state, all citizens and why are we likely to lose 40m euros on this transaction alone? If this is how we go according to the items from credit to credit, from the various jobs this government is making, from the purchase of coal from Romania, which is now going to be unloaded, it will be unloaded by March 31st when the winter is over and 60m euros are paid, meaning completely unnecessary. So we can find enough money and get the pensioners back the pensions they earned and get those people who work in the state administration back their salaries and find other ways to save money in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-03-0.u22081	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-03-0.u22082	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, at one of the previous sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I asked a parliamentary question concerning the unprecedented media attacks on Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Today, however, I will ask a question about the tenant, malicious, irresponsible, untrue media attacks on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. These media attacks, as well as Prime Minister Alexander Vukic's, are a front for mob-tecun political groups, both domestic and foreign activities. They go beyond not only the limits of good taste, but they slip deep into the area of social policy and criminal responsibility. Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, is a democratic country where criticism of authorities is even desirable, but I repeat, there is a huge difference between criticism and media attacks. Media criticism is based on the truthfulness of the facts, and that is why it is socially beneficial to our entire country and society. However, certain individuals employed in certain tabloids, but also some on-call analytical and scientific charlatans with total untruths about the president of the state and his family poison our public to the limit. Ladies and gentlemen, in every democratic country, the president of the state, next to the anthem, the flag and coat of arms, is a symbol of the state, and therefore enjoys special protection. The list of tabloid media lies about the president of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic is great. Behind these media attacks are very dangerous and above all evil intentions. They want to destabilize the state, degrade our country's reputation and cause it enormous damage. However, Serbia's reputation has increased more during its term of office, as well as during the world's prime minister's term, rather than over the past 20 years. Despite these attacks, the president of the state and the Prime Minister will continue to fight with unlimited intensity, so that Serbia will become a modern society every day, in which media untruths will represent only an ugly past. I'm asking the first question - a call to the Attorney General, did he read 173. Serbia's KZ and does it mean to take action? Second parliamentary question - Madam President, yesterday at 08.50 in front of the Anti-Corruption Agency building on Crice Milice No. 1, at the pedestrian crossing, in front of a large number of Belgrade citizens, Bozidar Djelic, a former senior state official of DS, a double minister, raised his hand and finger verbally threatened me, saying, "If you mention me again in the Serbian Parliament, you're done, you're done" and more curses that I can't bring out for the public now. Surprised and shocked by the primitive high-ranking state official, I tried to remember the last time I mentioned him in this high house. I did, 22. 12. 2014 at the 11th session of the Second Regular Session. Then, among other things, I said, "The former regime destroyed banking in Serbia, introduced bankruptcy on the four largest banks -- "Beobans", "Investbanks", "Yugobanks" and "Belgrade Bank". These banks were developed, credited with their own resources on favourable terms. They were supposed to be the moto development of the domestic economy, and they weren't supposed to be closed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, gentlemen of Ministers, Bozidar Djelic then lied that the debt of these banks was 8.5 billion and was only 1.7 billion euros. The total demand for these banks was 6.7 billion euros, so four times their debt? And where is Mr. Djelic today? Mr. Duke of Meridian Bank with 11m euros. Of course, he lied. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the hand of justice will come upon him. He destroyed our banking that was supposed to be the engine of our economy's development." It's a finished quote. That's what I said to my respected citizens on December 22, 2014. So here is the motive and reason why former senior state official Bozidar Djelic, representative of the DS, insulted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-03-0.u22083	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-03-0.u22084	I'm asking a question in one sentence. I call upon the state authorities to protect me from the great moral and human crags of Bozidar Djelic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-03-0.u22085	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-03-0.u22086	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first question I would ask the Government, I've been asking 20 days ago and I haven't received an answer yet, and I think it's extremely urgent and urgent. In the May floods last year, citizens and businesses suffered more than two billion euros in damage. A large number of businessmen have suffered huge damage in their warehouses, facilities, huge goods have failed. The tax administration has not yet received the instructions from the competent national authority on the VAT write-off for these businessmen, although they have carried out the list and all the necessary actions in accordance with the law and sublaws. Why does the Serbian government delay the VAT write-off for businessmen, although every day we hear about how it wants to fix the economic environment, reform our country, improve business conditions? This cannot be concluded in concrete cases. It is clear that businessmen only serve when they have to pay taxes. The second question concerns the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure and the Government of the Republic of Serbia – when will work continue on the project of the conversion of the Airport of Ships between the King and Cačka and its conversion into a military-civil airport? When is that going to work? I will remind you that the state has provided a loan from Turkey for an extension of the runway, so that the airport is fully equipped with the same opportunities as the Belgrade airport. But then the minister of infrastructure rejected the agreement and told the public that the state, that is, its ministry, will provide its own funds for the continuation of the project. These funds have not been provided to this day, nor have they been in the current budget for 2015, although it is quite clear what this project means for nearly a million citizens living in the vicinity of this airport, for the economy of this region, for agriculture. It's certainly something that can trigger the entire economy of this area. The third question – since it is very popular to talk about "Vojvodine Development Bank" and the damages that have taken place, I agree here that this should be examined until the end, when it comes to AIK Bank, but the total unknown to the public has caused bad business in the "Universal" bank and especially in "Serbian Bank"? It's completely unknown to citizens, although for three years the new government has its own leadership in these banks. I think it's our turn to hear from the government how much the citizens and the budget of the Republic of Serbia will cost bad business, unchargingly paid in these two banks? The fourth question concerns employment, the Ministry of Labour. Every day we listen to unemployment decreases, living standards improve, wages grow, and that is a completely imaginary reality, which is projected through the regime media. The question for the Ministry of Labour is – how many newly employed in the previous year has been reported in competent state institutions, how many in which branch of business, what is the structure? How many new employees are in the public sector, how many are in the economy? It is very well known that employment in the public sector is not being stopped, that more and more new workers are growing in public enterprises every day. Even the state auditor said in his report that almost every public enterprise and every state institution violates the Law on a limited number of administration employees and that party personnel in the state service are employed every day. The question arises – what is the number, which is the percentage, that the Ministry of Labour finally ceases to deceive the public? The National Bank of Serbia published in its annual report that the real number of employees in 2014 is lower by 30,000 compared to the number of employees in 2013. On the other hand, we have some percentages that according to that so-called. The new method appears in the media. I'm asking the Ministry to come out with specific data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-03-0.u22087	We'll continue to work if no one ever answers for a word again. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented today from being attended by the following MPs: Sinisa Maksimovic, Marjana Maras and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. We continue our work and move on to voting on the agenda points of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I put the draft law on the completion of the Ministry Act in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 150, against -8 abstentions - there is no, there is no vote of eight out of the total 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Dejan Nikolic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 out of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Dejan Nikolic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we've completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote. I am putting the draft law on the completion of the Ministry Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -153, v - eight abstentions - there are no, there are not six votes of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law supplementing the Ministry Act. I put the motion for a deposit insurance law in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -153, v - eight abstentions - there are no, there are not six votes of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly accepts the bill by majority, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of Glava 1 and Article 1 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there was no vote167 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their names to Glava 2 and Article 6 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava 3rd and Article 8th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against -one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 167 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - ten, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their names to Glava 4 and Article 15 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanova Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava V and Article 20 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava VI and Article 22 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava VII and Article 23 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting the bill to the vote on deposit insurance in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, v – eight abstentions – there are no votes, six out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on deposit insurance. I put the draft law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – nine abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by four of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. The names Glava I and Article 1 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava II, the name Section 1 and Article 4 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted on 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 159 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one who is abstentioned—has voted 171 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 2 and Article 8 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one who is abstentioned—has voted 171 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 3, Subsection 3 and Article 9 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one who is abstentioned—has voted 171 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Subsection 3.2 and Article 10 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one who is abstentioned—has voted 171 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Subsection 3.3 and Article 11 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one who is abstentioned—has voted 171 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Subsection 3.4 and Article 12 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one who is abstentioned—has voted 171 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Subsection 3.5 and Article 13 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one who is abstentioned—has voted 171 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the title of subsection 3.6 and Article 14 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Subsection 3.7 and Article 15 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 171 out of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 4 and Article 16 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 171 out of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 171 out of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 5, the name Subsection 5.1 and Article 19 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Subsection 5.2 and Article 20 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 6 and Article 22 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 161 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava III and Article 24 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić submitted an amendment proposing that a new Glava IV, named Glava and a new member of 33 be added after article 32. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total of 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava IV and Article 33 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – 11 abstentions – there are no, four of the 170 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on bankruptcy and liquidation and insurance companies. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for AGENCY OF DEPOSITION OF THE DEPOSITION AGENCY. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the Deposit Insurance Agency in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – 12 abstentions – there are no, three of the 170 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 20, which has been submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of Chapter I, the name of Article 1 and Article 1 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 169 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-03-0.u22088	The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted on 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter II, the title of Section 1 and Article 5 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter III, and Article 7 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter IV and Article 10 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, and together by Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment On Article 10th of the amendment, MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 157 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against -no one, with abstentions, there is no vote157 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanova Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -15, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, there was no vote169 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against -no one, with abstentions, there is no vote157 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Chapter V and Article 21 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the 171 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 171 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 116 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 171 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Chapter VI and Article 25 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -15, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-03-0.u22089	On behalf of Chapter VII and Article 26 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the 17 people present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Chapter VIII and Article 27 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 171 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the 17 people present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 28th amendment, together with the correction, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić submitted the 28th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 173 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 173 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 173 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the motion for a Deposit Insurance Agency Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – 14 abstentions – no, nine of the 173 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed a bill on the Deposit Insurance Agency. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of Public Procurement Laws After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 versus – 15 abstentions – there is no vote, six of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one who is abstentioned—has voted 171 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Dr. Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one who is abstentioned—has voted 171 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one who is abstentioned—has voted 171 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Gordana Komic and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 164 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together with the folk MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Dr. Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 170 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – 13, the abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Completion of the Public Procurement Act. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146 against – 13, the abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 3 together submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic, amendments to Article 18, which, in the same text, have been submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic, the amendment to Article 19, which was submitted by the Committee of Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the amendment to Article 25, which was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted on 168 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 156 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 166 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olepa Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 162 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 167 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have finished voting on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – 14, the abstentions – there is no, there is no vote of 13 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SPECIES OF THE BANKS Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Bank Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, against – 14 abstentions – nine of the 169 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before we move on to the amendment decision, I remind you that the components of the bill have become amendments to Article 48, which is added after Article 48, by a new member of 48, who submitted to the Government; a member of 56, who, in the same text, was submitted by the Government and jointly by Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and a member of the People's MP Veroljub Arsic. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 165 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 165 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 164 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 164 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 153 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 164 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 164 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 164 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 164 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 163 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 17th amendment. Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 156 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 163 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 149 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 148 of the 159 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 159 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, abstentioned - one, did not vote 158 of the totals of the people present160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, abstentioned - two, voted 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - none, abstentioned - one, did not vote 163 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, abstentioned - one, voted 164 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Oleng Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 164 of the total attendance of the 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, abstentioned - one, voted 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 164 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, abstentioned - one, voted 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Oleng Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoje Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 155 out of the total attendance of 164 MPs. Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 44th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 49th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 165 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 164 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, v – 11 abstentions – no, five of the 165 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank Act. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were pointed out by the MPs. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 30 January 2015, at 13.20 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 103 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 156 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 2 February 2015, at 1545, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – one, abstention – there is no, 144 of the 154 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 2 February 2015, at 21.51 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – one, abstention – there is no, 144 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session held on 2 February 2015 at 21.53 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
