ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. I am opening a session of the 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 147 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 170 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next MPs, who reported it, which is Vesna Marjanovic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, exceptionally, for Friday, past the days set out in Article 87(1) of the Convention. The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the Assembly to review the draft agenda laws set out in the Government's request to hold this extraordinary session as soon as possible. You were presented with the minutes of the 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 13, 14, 15 and 16 July this year. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 against – no one, with abstentions, voted 19 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. I am voting on the minutes of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 21, 22 and 23 July 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 17 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 24 July 2015. I ask the messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 21 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31 July 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 19 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Dear People's MPs, convened by the session of the 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year, which was called at the government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure, you have also been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you have seen, the following Dn e n e d: 1.Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, 2.Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, 3.Proposal of the Law amending the Law on Mortgage, 4.Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement on Loan of LD 1764 (2012) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on: the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mortgage and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Agreement on Loan of LD 1764 (2012) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174, no one, with abstentions, voted 18 out of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session: Dr Dusan Vujovic and Nikola Selakovic, finance minister and minister of justice and their co-workers in ministries. Here you go. Dr. Janko Veselinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35314	Dear President, I'm advertising Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which says the National Assembly is meeting on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays. As far as I know, although we differ in many ways today is Friday, and yesterday was Thursday. Isn't that right, President? It's not a problem. We want to work on Fridays. We were prepared to work here and take a bath and sleep here as the prime minister asked, but I ask you to give me an answer to the question about the breach of this Rules of Procedure, which is why we didn't do yesterday, so as to ask the Government how it was right to ask the question of "Belgrade on Water", about reducing wages and pensions, about the asylum crisis, about closed borders, about the growing number of employees. Why didn't you let the government ask questions here in the O.R., but we had to talk about it in the National Assembly Hall without the Government? Why didn't you schedule a session yesterday, Thursday, as the Rules of Procedure said, so we can discuss all the issues of pensions and salaries and the problem of not having an adequate solution to the refugee crisis, which is why we don't have any strategy, which is why we're a country where there's a lot of chaos on this issue, which is why we couldn't talk about it here? We are looking for a special session, since you did not allow us to talk, a special session where we would discuss, the problem of the asylum crisis, the refugee crisis that is affecting Serbia and which is already causing serious damage to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35315	Thank you. I didn't quite understand the question, for a year and a half we've been MPs here, we all know the Rules of Procedure. I didn't understand your question at all. The Rules of Procedure aren't hurt. An entire member of 87 is injured? Well, it says by the rule that we shorten this discussion. It says by the book Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and now it's an extraordinary session, and it's hard for me to hear myself. When I get a proposal from authorised promoters, such as the Government or MPs, I schedule a session, so I can't schedule a session in advance. It's a very clear answer. And all the rest of this you said about questions and press conferences isn't up to me, that's what you're going to say, how you're going to talk and in what form. You chose the form of addressing journalists, so you didn't need that audience, and you didn't need any answers, as far as I'm concerned about holding a press conference. You speak to the public, not to certain ministers. But thank you, we will vote anyway, although I personally think this was an abuse of the Rules of Procedure because you were talking about intentions, not the essence of Article 87. Here you go. Dr. Pavicevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Vujovic, the distinguished guests and guests from the Ministry, I presume from the Ministry of Finance, the respected National Assembly President Mrs. Gojkovic, I believe that three members of the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, members of 249, 250 and 251 have been injured as regards the extraordinary session of the National Assembly. I must be here, the esteemed president of the National Assembly and ask you, but also distinguished colleagues, above all the MPs of the SNS...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35317	He can't, because he's only hurting the Rules of Procedure on my account.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35318	All right, then let me ask you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35319	I accept all questions regarding 249, 250 and 251.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35320	All right, I'm asking you, the president of the National Assembly, not only why we didn't sit as well yesterday, I think, explained MP Mr. Janko Vesenović, but why, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, almost two months ago, this National Assembly did not sit in this assembly, honored gentlemen and respected presidents Mrs. Gojkovic? In the assembly procedure, the bill's proposals there, there are some topical issues, there are big issues and problems that our National Assembly, I think, can be ambushed about. Instead of honoring the president, that there is one initiative, that we really should work day and night, that we don't even have a break, I've been waiting here since mid-August for tomorrow's session, whether tomorrow's session and session will be gone, honored gentlemen for almost two months. I believe it is indeed Mrs Gojkovic's injury to these members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm very interested in your position on my intervention and an explanation for such an attitude. Of course, I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35321	Thank you and thank you. So I don't have to answer, because you insist on voting, and that's what made it easier for me, because everything I say doesn't interest you in advance. Are you interested? I am not making the points, just 249, 250 and 251 very clear here that the request from MPs and the Government determines the time when the National Assembly will meet. There's no improvisation. Article 251 states - on the pre-defined agenda. The order can't change, it doesn't change. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There, it's different. I have nothing else to say to you. My views are not for Parliament's presidency, but when I answer a word and discuss it as an MP. We'll vote. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35322	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, I, the Honored Chairman, advertise Article 107. – the dignity of the National Assembly that my colleague Pavicevic violated in my view, so if you allow me to explain, because the meetings of the National Assembly are not the only obligations of the Members of the people. I don't know what my colleague Pavicevic was doing, but we had board meetings. I think dignity has been violated because here the National Assembly sessions are seen as a studio where we're going to be in front of cameras and microphones to compete on who's told whom. I think the work of the MPs consists of meeting with voters, and number two, that committees can work and sit. The Agriculture Committee has been sitting for three days, a parliamentary energy forum that I've been a member of for four days, which is seven working days in this year, and we haven't all been scrambling with the Brions, and we haven't all used it at a time when we can't do it anymore, we've already done it here. The fact that colleagues who consider themselves as opposition have done nothing during this period does not give them the right to honor the MPs who have worked hard and visited places and certain events at the invitation of their constituents and at the invitation of the voters of other parties, the fact that the MPs have been committed to committees, made conclusions, recommendations to the Government, does not allow the right of the MPs to believe that this assembly, again, is under the influence of the studio before TV cameras and speakers, or microphones, and thus address only their constituents. The National Assembly and the obligations of the MPs of the people are little more than what Mr Pavicevic sees as a commitment to himself, as a MP of the people and us other MPs of the people. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35323	Thank you. I won't comment. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35324	Thank you, Madam President. I'm advocating the Rules of Procedure of Rule 108 and I'm saying in advance that I won't ask the Assembly to declare it. Very briefly, I also support your decision, but also the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to hold a session of the National Assembly yesterday because yesterday is a great holiday for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia of Muslim religion, yesterday was Kurban Bayram and I think it is time for the MPs of the Muslim religion, but also for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia who celebrated Kurban Bayram yesterday. I think it's a good domestic and state-run move and the National Assembly and you presidents and the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35325	Thank you. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs for discussion on the agenda we have read. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Mortgage Law and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Agreement on the Loan of LD 1764 (2012) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposing official, Minister Dusan Vujovic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35326	Thank you very much. I guess there will be opportunities later in the debate to get into the details, so let me start by just giving a few basic notes on each of the proposed laws. First, amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act were proposed. The reasons for the adoption, i.e. the submission of these amendments and the complementarity of compliance with EU rules, the creation of more favourable conditions for business operators, the harmonisation of housing tax and transport tax in urban and international traffic, as well as the maintenance of or reduction of existing fiscal burdens. The point of the changes is that the registration of foreign persons in the VAT system allows foreign companies operating in Serbia, especially those operating in financial markets, so that they can normally operate, just as they do in the rest of Europe. The level of accommodation currently related to hotels, pensions, overnight stays is uniformly balanced - it is now expanding to all forms of accommodation, formal and informal. Furthermore, the tax rate of VAT on passenger transport is evening, so it will now be at a lower level of 10% for all modes of transport. Finally, a more favourable VAT treatment is given to all those entities operating in the area of construction, so they will not have to have trouble paying and returning VAT, but will be able to do so calculatedly. The details of these changes, as you saw in the proposed bill, are numerous, but the essence is very simple. The point is to register a foreign person as a VAT debtor, which will be done in a way that is standardised in Europe. Foreign persons operating in Serbia's territory, without their headquarters in Serbia, and performing goods and services in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, will have the right to exercise all VAT rights through the tax authority. So, in other words, foreigners can appear on our energy market, on our capital market, on all markets and exercise all VAT rights that they have as if they are registered in Serbia. Of course, they could do it by registering in Serbia, but there is no need to burden people with registering in Serbia. If someone sees the possibility of actively participating in Serbia's financing of individual projects in investing money on the Serbian financial market, i.e. in carrying out transactions in Serbia, we give them the opportunity to do so under exactly the same conditions as domestic companies. Our companies have the same rights everywhere in Europe, so we also provide the same rights to foreign companies in our country. Secondly, it is proposed to regulate the tax and transport system in the area of construction, which will expand to so-called. the debtors and will not be limited to investors and performers only. So, it is proposed that everyone has equal rights and that everyone can participate in this system, without undue involvement of additional funds in the system, from payment to VAT recovery, and thus we are also equating ourselves with Europe and thus facilitating transport. In addition, a 10% tax extension is proposed for all accommodation services, so other than standard services, hotels, etc., all forms of accommodation, including household and all other forms, are proposed to be subject to the same rate of 10%. It is also proposed to improve the way VAT is reported. It means that the component of the tax application is additional information that will allow raising the quality of the tax administration to a higher level. It means that the tax application itself contains additional data that will allow tax risk assessment, assessment of the place where inspections should be done, assessment of the place where errors in the system are likely, i.e. tax evasion, or incomplete tax returns. It is proposed to introduce a single deadline for submitting a VAT tax application and that will now be 15 days. The details that are also proposed, I would not now go into all the details, they are given in the bill and we can talk about it when there is a debate in particular or later today during the day. Law number two you've read is the Administrative Tax Act. This law proposes that all, i.e. the methodology for the determination of taxis as a compensation for the provision of state service, it is proposed to bring this law into line with matters relating to obligations, with files and actions which are in the jurisdiction of the authorities whose work is a Republic's administrative fee, i.e. regulations that have been passed over the last few years, evening with the rules imposing new taxes or repealing certain existing fees. The example is, for example, the elimination of taxis, to the issue of shipping and maritime traffic visas, which have been abolished by law. An example is the introduction of a taxi to detective activity and a whole series of other activities that have been passed by appropriate laws. I wouldn't bother you all, but let me just read this example. So, these are taxes on records and actions by the authorities under the Law on Private Security, the Law on Detective Activity, the Law on Fire Protection, the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Mining and Geological Research, the Law on Energy, the Law on Effective Use of Energy, the Law on Port Navigation, etc. So these are all those laws that have introduced new files and procedures to which taxes are now paid. In amendments and additions to the law, a certain level of determination of those taxis has also been set. The goal, for me, is very important, as finance minister, I would like to stress the importance that the state is charging a fee precisely at the level that covers the additional costs that the state has in providing these services, no less. So it's not going to cover fixed costs, it's just what economists would call variable costs due to the provision of these services. I wouldn't enter individual tariff numbers, it's all specified and explained, and we can talk about it in detail, but in each tariff number there's an explanation that a new tax is being introduced, or abolished. The third law we are discussing today is the Law that was recently before you, which we discussed here in early July and which entered, which was published on July 8th under number 60/15. Literally, nine days later, Constitutional Court decision No 63/15 was published, declaring some members of the law unconstitutional. Therefore, we have returned, to amend these members of the law, to carry out a certain terminology. So, this is unusual that we were not aware of unconstitutionalness, which the member said, practically about the right to appeal, or the trial, in Article 31, paragraph 7, which says, in the work that reads – against it; i.e. It was then written – a legal solution, no suit is allowed because it is a legal remedy. In the new formulation of the law, it will be not "legal" but "final" solutions and a lawsuit will be allowed, i.e. another legal remedy. It's the essence of changing this law, everything else is just so-called. Lecteral changes. Finally, the fourth law we are considering today is the ratification of the Bank's credit for the development of the Council of Europe, which has already been in the budgets of the Republic of Serbia several times, but has not been ratified for various reasons. This loan was signed on 15 June 2015, all documents for the case of implementation of this law have been prepared. It's to remind you of a loan that will be used to build prison facilities in Panchev, i.e. moving the prisons from the city center to the suburban area. This loan will finance 60% of the value of the facility, the remaining funds will be provided specifically from this grenade for the Western Balkans, from local budgets. This loan is granted under very favourable conditions, with a start of five years and a 20-year term. As you know, or I assume you know, this bank interest rate determines on the day of withdrawal. Since it is in debt on the financial market, then the interest will be established at a very favourable level, but relative to the interest on the day of withdrawal. We, as the country benefiting from this loan, will have the right to choose between fixed interest and variable interest. In the case of variable interest, of course, we take the risk of change. The variable interest is determined at Eurobor level and increased by certain percentages of the interest margin determined by the European Bank for Development. The fixed interest rate has a different formulaation rule and does not then contain interest risk, but contains naturally currency risk. The general terms of this loan are that it will be withdrawn in two tranches, of which the first tranche must not be less than 50%, in at least two tranches, can be more tranches. It's very important that you be aware of the facts, and that's very important for us, so we've been waiting for the project to prepare that the bank has the right to cancel the loan unless we withdraw the first tranche in 12 months. We have a problem with the delay in the realisation of the loan, and this is an opportunity to show that we can be prepared to use the funds we are in debt for. The deadline for withdrawing the tranche is 13th September 2019, but we must withdraw the first tranche within 12 months. This law shall enter into force by publication in the Official Journal. These are the brief notes of these laws. Note, the amendments to the law to which we comply with standards in Europe are the correction of the error that was undermined in the Mortgage Act and it is about the ratification of loans for the construction of modern facilities for the maintenance of penalties near the City of Panchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35327	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Do any of these reported reporters want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary group, want a word? The word is Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35328	Dear President, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to be the first MP to speak in principle after this summer's break. At the very beginning, I have to ask the Honorable Mr. Minister, and today we have amendments and additions to several laws. I will look back, of course, on the first two, and these are amendments to the VAT Act and amendments to the Administrative Tax Act. When we talk about amending the VAT Act, the Honorable Minister, does it seem to you, my impression is that if not today, then in some due time we have a new VAT law, because the existing law is on 250 sides, the existing law has more than 1,400 sides of different interpretations of the existing law, and now, if you have an ordinary entrepreneur who employs in Serbia one, two or three people, do you believe that he can get along in that forest of VAT regulations, that he can report, you say will be a term, unique, for 15 days, can now an entrepreneur who holds a kiosk can get along in the whole of that forest? What is commendable, Mr. Minister, in these changes, if you agree with me that in due course we have a consolidated text of the new law, that would be good, but in the opening part of the amendments you have already mentioned a few things that are good and that New Serbia's MPs will ally support. It is, above all, respected ministers, that according to clear criteria a single tax rate for accommodation and catering facilities is determined and that is good and we agree. What you did not mention in the opening part, which is why I, the Honorable Minister, and wrote a certain amendment, is the VAT refund for the diet and transport of workers. That, Your Honor, is something that is extremely problematic and I have to ask you to consider the amendment that I have submitted to Article 18(2), which is to delete point three. I'm asking the president for some peace. Please, it would really be appropriate to hear from each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35329	I will. Please, just as much in the microphone as you can talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35330	I try to speak as much as possible in the microphone, but because of the citizens of Serbia watching this transmission, I want to repeat that I have submitted an amendment to Article 18(2) of point 3), which is to delete the proposed proposal to abolish VAT return for food and transport of workers. To clarify because of fellow MPs, and also because of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so far it has been a practice for entrepreneurs who have a higher number of employees, who organise food or pay, which is now the right to rareness in Serbia, transport to their employees, to seek VAT returns at the end of the month for the service. Unfortunately, you are now predicting that it should be abolished. A little bit later, I'm going to talk about the proposal for administrative fees, what we're going to charge all private and private entrepreneurs and what kind of taxes they pay. And the question is, is there anything we've been saying in this conference, with previous stimuli, that it's going to be guillotine regulations, that we're going to try to cut taxes, allow entrepreneurs to make it easier... We're expecting the Foreign Investment Act soon. This Law on Foreign Investments needs to define how much we will give incentives to create new jobs, and now these amendments to the VAT Act are taking away certain rights. Now, if there is Mr. Feman, who sits here in front of me, 150 employees who, based on his 150 employees, could also ask for a state incentive, which is the return of VAT for a warm meal that he gives at the company or for the transport of his employees who are from Jagodina or from the surrounding area, he will not have it now. If he doesn't have the funds, he'll have to fire five employees. That's what this is about. Why are we bringing stuff like this? What's good, Mr. Minister, is that these changes will harmonize the tax rate for urban and suburban transport, when we mention the transportation of employees. It is very important, so far the tax rate, VAT for suburban transport was 20% and for local transport 10%. There have been huge abuses, and it's good, and we commend you, that you have decided to agree to this and that the unique VAT rate for urban and suburban transport is 10%. I ask you, what will the ministry do if the carriers do not reduce the fare, or price the ticket for end-users? We in practice, unfortunately, Mr. Minister, have been fueling on the global stock market all year long, and we have at the pumps the same fuel prices and now citizens are wondering whether it will be the same for transport prices when we vote in the National Assembly, in parliament to reduce VAT by 10%, and the price of the ticket remains the same. To return only to this previous part, where VAT returns for food and transportation of employees are abolished, you are in an explanation that I have carefully tried to find with all these explanations, mentioned in one section that certain abuses have been committed in that part. The abuses may be, we in the field see that someone simply doesn't pay workers a ride, and then asks because he has some kind of contract with wild carriers, throw up VAT. You know what, for that there are inspection bodies, there are tax police. You have mechanisms to contain it, but you don't need to now if there are certain abuses that we can end the possibility of those businessmen who work with honor and integrity and make it work, hire people to make things more difficult for them. I need something else, Mr. Minister, that since this is a principle debate, I don't know if you've met, we have a serious problem with local self-government. You know we have those transfer funds at the end of the month that we get as part of a VAT that's being collected on the territory of cities and municipalities. We received a warning from your co-workers at the Ministry of Finance that about 60 cities and municipalities will be in trouble and that they will be suspended or suspended transfer funds because they have violated a certain order from the Ministry of Finance to reduce earnings and the 10% profit mass at the beginning of the year. Dear Ministers, you need to understand one more thing and the cities are in written arguments as well as the municipalities sent to the ministry, so please also be familiar with this fact, which is that there are employees in municipal administrations and city administrations who have minimals. With these minimals, we couldn't legally cut them by 10%. When you add it together, you don't have a 10% reduction in the total mass, but you have 8.6%, 9.2%, 8.9%, and that's at an annual level of about 500 or 600 to a million dinars, and now because of the example. 500,000 dinars you say we suspend the transfer funds to cities and municipalities that are now at the end of the ninth month in the full course of the construction season and all other things, when we need every dinar. I only use this as a small depression, it's not direct, but it's tied because these funds are exactly from VAT being collected in the territories of cities and municipalities, and it's very important to know what it is and how it's done. As far as the first Return Act is concerned, it should be highly commendable that foreign companies dealing with goods and services on the Serbian market will enter the VAT system and that is something absolutely commendable. That will always support New Serbia's MPs. What I'm asking you, dear Minister, is this other law, new taxes. We can see in reason that you are someone who defends this law in the name of the Government, you have noted that these taxes are being introduced or harmonised on a proposal, so here there are different ministries, from the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management, Internal Affairs, Buildings, Urbanism, Ministry of Labour, Fight and Social Affairs, and I can understand their needs, everyone in this difficult time needs as much money as possible, and this is probably being done as their own incomes, and that's all right. But, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, we are MPs and we need to go to certain campaigns soon, do you, when you look at these items and when you see how many of these administrative fees on this right end here, do you honestly think that this is in certain parts too much? I'm going to tell you a specific example, the Ministry of Mining and Energy, as it is called, if anyone in your ministry could have seen these certain things that they've brought out and that are absolutely amazing to me. You're, like, you're... Allowed in this bill that tomorrow a small entrepreneur who somewhere in the Shumadi would, for example, be a small entrepreneur. From Mount Vencac, the stone, that only to seek consent with the reduction of the field of exploitation, I must explain to you what it means. This means that if he once took a larger piece of land earlier and could not solve property-legal relations, because it is private owners, he now wants to reduce that exploitation field so that he can take out that stone and further exploit it, he must invest 400 euros in the ministry. Is that what one of you ministers is looking at and saying to the gentlemen of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, do you know who can pay for it? Or let me ask you honestly, the MUP and these demands, we've talked a hundred times in the tide about these firefighters. Do you see how much taxes here are just for giving the most ordinary consent to fire consent? That's all 30, 40, 50,000 dinars. Your officials when they get consent and when they get a proposal from certain ministries, simply to see that these things people can't pay anymore. Not that someone won't or will, we're really coming into a very difficult situation to say that entrepreneurs can't pay for this kind of thing anymore. I sincerely ask you to look at and see first of all in the debate in particular because probably, apart from my smallness, a lot of MPs have submitted amendments to the heights themselves, both of these administrative taxis and above all on VAT vomit, and I have already said concrete examples before and I ask you to look at it a little bit. I know you're not an expert on the Ministry of Mining and Energy, not even for the Ministry of Energy, but their officials, when they send such requirements for administrative fees, have to agree with the Ministry of Finance that these things are not in this kind of domain and form right here in front of us, because you realize that people are really hard to live. That's it. I thank you, and I hope we get concrete answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35331	The People's Messenger Vesna Besarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35332	Madam President, distinguished guests, Mr Minister, I would like to refer to the proposed laws, the proposed VAT law, the Republic Tax Act and the Mortgage Act. I'd like to start with the proposed amendments to the mortgage law. According to the Mortgage Act, as we know in 2005 and since then, he has suffered significant changes in July of 2015, so that, as Mr Vujovic said several days after that, the Constitutional Court has made its decision published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", issue 63/15 of July 17th found that the provision of Article 31st position 7. The Mortgage Act – and against it is not allowed to sue or remedy, is not in agreement with the Constitution, and that the position ceases to be valid on the day of publication in the "Official Messenger". However, in the light of its decision, the Constitutional Court calls for the Law on the State Prime Minister and the Cataster, which was adopted after the entry into force of the Mortgage Act, which is provided for in Article 180, that administrative dispute may be conducted against the second-degreed settlements, and since the notice of mortgage sales by its legal nature is reflected in the observations governed by the Law on the Preferress and Cataster, the Constitutional Court does not dispute, nor can it dispute the second-degreed decision of the Administrative Authority to be final, because it is under the General Administrative Procedure Act and is thus enforceable. However, from the point of view of the constitutional principle establishing the unity of the legal order in the Republic and the judicial control of the work of the administrative authorities, the Administrative Court considers that such a second-degree solution of the administrative authority is also necessary for judicial protection. Therefore, Article 31(7) left out the second part of Article 7 that no action or legal remedy is allowed against a second-degree solution. The amendment required, of course, the appropriate changes in Articles 7, 31, 34, 35 and 36 where the expression of justice was replaced by the term finality, which is the legal consequence that the mortgage sale procedure is not completed by a second-degree decision of the administrative authority, but by a judicial decision of the administrative court. I, however, would not fully agree with Mr. Minister's presentation if it were cosmetic corrections. I think the replacement term "justice" with the term "fineness" is very serious. Namely, after 30 days of issuing a second-degree final solution, the trustee may access the sale of mortgaged immovableity in the out-of-court sale procedure, which of course does not compromise the idea of mortgage sales as such. However, if we know that the lawfulness of the verdict, which has been passed, is that it means the justice of the verdict, that it cannot be objected to by appeal or appeal. to apply the principle of no bis and I will go then we know that the protection of parties, which have acquired the right after the conduct of the administrative dispute, has been granted by a judicial dispute. That the judicial authority oversees the administrative authority, i.e. that management is not a judge in its own affairs. The possibility of starting a administrative dispute can deter public administration from possible illegal actions, and this position is generally defended and it is correct. On the other hand, the finality of the solution implies that the solution can no longer be attacked by a complaint in the administrative procedure. It was introduced by the ZUP in 1956 in the general administrative procedure, and it does not predict that when the solution finally becomes that regular legal medicine can be attacked. The next legal category is that the solution becomes executive by delivering a second-degree solution to the party. However, a very important question is now being raised – how will this new legal solution work in practice? The trustee bank will sell mortgage immovableity, and the debtor or previous owner will be entitled to current amendments to the Mortgage Law and will be able to initiate the case before the Administrative Court, and if he gets a judicial verdict in his favour at the end of a certain time, which we know on average how long it can take, that I am not prejudicing and not presenting the year, but we know that he can't be in a year, at least, what legal situation will be created? Namely, what legal certainty will the new owner, the one who buys mortgaged value from the bank as a trustee? Will he be in one legal uncertainty? Will the debtor succeed with his lawsuit in administrative proceedings? On the other hand, the uncertainty brought by the court for the trustee's bank will affect the reduction in the value of the mortgaged immovableity that the bank, or the trustee, is selling, since the third party, the new owner of that mortgaged value, will always have one dose of legal uncertainty - whether the administrative procedure may end up at its expense, that is, to the detriment of its seller. Of course, we must say that judicial protection provides additional protection for the debtor and that it is always generally viewed as good because it allows the control of an individual administrative act. However, due to the emerging situation caused by the Constitutional Court's decision in my opinion and by our party, it should be installed in this draft mortgage law on elements that would neutralise the negative consequences of the additional legal protection which he is now introducing for debtors. Namely, in the administrative procedure, or may delay the execution until the jurisprudence of the verdict, which rejects the complaint in the administrative dispute, or so on. A voluntary execution means that the trustee bank decides in this case whether to approach the sale of the mortgaged value as soon as the second-degree settlement becomes final and executive or to wait for the end of the debt-run administrative dispute. I would now like to make a few comments on the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value. Amendments and additions to the current law have been proposed in order to fully comply with EU rules and to remove individual solutions that are contrary to solutions with them, and above all, to Chapter 16, Chapter on Taxes. Namely, to say that this preceded a request at the bilateral screening in March of this year when it was set up as a request for this harmonisation of the rules. The goal is to equate the rights and obligations of all persons as taxpayers and prevent the non-taxation of traffic between foreign persons in Serbia's territory, to remove some abuses from the practice so far and to ensure VAT control by tax authorities. The most important requirement is for foreign persons in the territory of Serbia who are performing goods and services to be recorded in the future in the VAT system. Then, a new EU institute is being arranged, which is the Institute of the Tax Powers for the Transport of goods and services, which performs a foreign face on Serbia's territory. A foreign person carrying out goods and services shall be obliged to designate a tax attorney unless the Republic exclusively carries out the transport of services by electronic means, as well as in the case of transport services of passengers by bus when the average transport fee is calculated for each individual transport. Then, the third thing, at the tax rate of 10%, will be taxed traffic of accommodation services in all catering facilities, which means that the tax rate for hotels, motels, resorts, camps with tax rates for hostels, pensions, overnights, hunting villas, etc. The same tax rate is determined for the transport of passengers and following baggage not only in the city, suburban, inter-urban, but also in international traffic. Furthermore, what I believe may be a somewhat technical but essential issue, as it should produce good consequences, is that the tax returns must also be subject to a review of the tax administration's tax returns. Finally, it is specified that the food and transport costs of employees have the same tax burden regardless of whether they are secured in money or in services or in goods. As SDPS, we believe that this solution is not entirely in line with the basic energy maintenance, free transport and nutrition, and we think and suggest that this solution should be reviewed once again. As for construction work, there is also a significant change. The tax debtor in construction work and now becomes a recipient of goods and services regardless of whether or not he is a taxpayer of VAT. It's a traffic person, as well as a performer's status, and the recipient gets investor status. The tax debtor shall be considered as an asset or part of the asset if, after the transfer has been carried out, the conditions cease if, within three years, the non-taxation that existed at the time of transfer of the assets. Finally, the advantages this law carries with it are unquestionable. The advantage is that it will cover a far wider number of taxpayers by including foreign persons, categories of foreign persons. Then, the Institute of Tax Powers is introduced which is a very practical and well-checked thing and is finally equating the VAT rate in various types of traffic, which was also one of the issues that had to be addressed. And, finally, we have the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes. Namely, the Republic's administrative fees represent the public revenue that the Republic of Serbia charges for records and actions in administrative matters, as well as for other files and actions that its authorities bring, i.e. they make for natural and legal persons at their request. They are determined exclusively by law and the level of taxis cannot be changed without changing the legal rules. This bill comes as a kind of necessary technical correction, since the laws have been passed: the Law on travel documents, on traffic security, on private security, on detective activity, on fire protection, on planning, etc., which provides for new taxes and therefore must be harmonised by the Law on administrative fees with the provisions of these specific laws, and they have all been adopted after the amendments and addition of the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes of 2011, 2012 and 2013. Finally, to say that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the adoption of the Value Added Tax Act, the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, the Law amending the Mortgage Act and the Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Loan Agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, and that it would be particularly looking forward to taking into account these suggestions that I have just made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35333	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35334	I thank you, President. Dear Ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Value Added Tax are made, in addition to the reasons set out in the material which we MPs have received, and these reasons are clear: compliance with EU rules governing fiscal policy, creating more favourable conditions for business operators, preventing abuse and ensuring improvement of value added tax control. These are all reasons that are normally acceptable. In addition to these reasons, however, the SPS parliamentary group points out another very important one, which could sublime all these reasons into one, which is an increase in tax discipline in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think this is the fundamental objective of this law, which is why the SPS parliamentary group supports amendments and additions to the proposed Value Added Tax Act. We will undoubtedly vote in the voting day and vote in favour of this law. What should be pointed out in any case is both good and some provisions that draw attention from the point of view of certain dilemmas, which I hope today through asked questions and your answer will eventually be removed. What could be pointed out as good is, above all, one of the newspapers in the proposed legislative changes is the expansion of a person's body that has the identity of a taxpayer. The legislation under these proposed changes now has a foreign person or person who has no seat or residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That is good, given the number of such persons doing goods and services in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so it would be absurd for such persons not to be covered by system solutions, in which multiple effects are achieved. The first effect is undoubtedly tax collection, i.e. fiscal obligations, and the second effect caused by this is the complete budget of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, these effects achieve the ultimate goal, and it avoids the danger of the Republic of Serbia being denied to collect claims on the basis of fiscal obligations from foreign people. Also, one of the newspapers is the introduction of a new institute, we can call it a tax-law institute, and that's the tax attorney institute. Indeed, this institute achieves what is, in the right sense, the alignment of our legislation in the field of fiscal policy with EU legislation, because this tax authority institution exists in all EU member states and systemic solutions. Here, however, something that causes certain dilemmas should be pointed out, i.e. it encourages certain thinking. First of all, the legislator, that is, I apologize, we are the legislator, the promoter here has stated that the tax attorney and the foreign person have so-called. a solidarity of responsibility, i.e. that they are in solidarity with the State in terms of payment of fiscal obligations, or value added tax. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Minister, to pay attention now to this part that I'm about to point out when it comes to the tax attorney. It is not disputed that it is an institution that contributes to the security of charge. The solidarity of the obligation between the tax attorney and the foreign person or person who has no seat and residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia is undeniable and it deserves attention as a qualitative solution to this law. But, given that the tax attorney is the one who meets certain requirements here, that 12 months, to say, is solvable, that there is no unpaid commitment to the state, that has the appropriate credit and business credibility, that is normal, in the tax world, that in this case there is no situation, besides the tax attorney taking the risk of the tax authority, that it is not always the burden of paying obligations. Why am I saying this? Because foreign persons on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, at least so far we have been witnesses, have often been out of the reach of paying tax obligations. If solidarity is now viewed this way, we can come to a situation where tax attorneys are destabilised, that they lose motive to gain tax power. In this way we come into another potential danger, that it is those who are credible, who have a bonity that is exclusively under the burden of tax obligations, thus automatically creating an ambience of one skepticism, one skepticism towards the institution of the tax attorney. Therefore, it is an appeal to the Ministry to consider opportunities, i.e. i would like to say, better discipline of a foreign person when it comes to the collection of the tax liability, although solidarity as a legal category must exist as well as that institution of the Law on Liabilities and, of course, it implies that there is support here. What is also a good solution to this bill, and what we support unreservedly, is to systemify the legitimacy of the tax debtor in the area of construction as a recipient of goods and services, regardless of whether a VAT debtor performing goods and services in the area of construction has the status of contractors or has investor status. To be completely open and honest, until recently, until this system solution appeared in the legislative procedure, we had a situation that the contractor was mostly placed in an inferior position. Why the inferior position? Because he was facing problems with the investor. Therefore, all thanks to you for making a proposal for a systemic solution that the investor and the performer, unless they are the same person, have the status of the taxpayer precisely because investors once avoided obligations even when the performer at the end of the situation or by temporary situations or by invoices where VAT values are shown are not paid. Now, overturning the burden of the taxpayer and on the investor in any case, such a situation will be eliminated, or the contractor will be protected. What might cause attention with you, dear ministers, is one of our suggestions, to consider whether the solution you have provided for in this Bill proposal, which refers to the norm, that the recipient is a tax debtor for goods and services to be executed in the executive procedure. Please pay attention here, to pay attention because such a norm could exist in the law only on condition that the provisions of the law on enforcement and security should be amended, but even if those provisions of the law on enforcement and security of changes are not discussed. Why am I saying this? The execution, and that is the aim of the trustees, to collect, implies a forced payment from the asset of the executive debtor. So this isn't about the transport of goods and services, how it treats any provision of any fiscal law. This is one specially established system procedure for the sale of assets, either mobile or immovable, owned by an executive debtor. You said here that those goods that are the subject of execution or the means of execution are subject to the obligation of VAT. I ask the question - and then who's going to issue a fiscal slice? Will the executive be in debt? He won't. Will the court? He won't. Will the public executioner be? Well, the public executioner can, but only for those services he provides and where the VAT is shown and where that VAT bill is and which is later to be paid. We have a problem here, which in this situation, if the provisions of the law on enforcement and security are strictly applied, we must have the protection of property, not goods and services, property similar to the means of execution to carry out the mandatory collection procedure. In most cases, it's mobile or immovable property. The question arises – what will be the basis for VAT calculation? Mr. Minister, in the law on enforcement and security of enforcement procedures, it is carried out by never being found at first public sale as the initial price of the market value of immovableity, or even movable things, but 60% of it, so if it does not come to that sale, then it goes to 30%. Then what is the basis for tax returns in this situation? So we have a series of dilemmas, a series of issues that should be far more precise, clearer, so that in practice, or in the practical sense of words, we can avoid problems. We in the SPS parliamentary group suggest something else. We suggest that the Resort Ministry, whose head you are on, and according to us, you successfully lead and work, takes a stand to prevent butchers from making enormous incomes in executive procedures, and are not taxed, have no tax obligations. Mixers are those who wait for the value of the immovable property that is the means of execution to fall to 30%, do not participate in the first bidding, wait, come to the second, then buy and resell at a higher price and resell incomes that are not taxed, where the state remains deprived of certain budgets. Therefore, these are problems that must be paid attention, both from the government and from the resolution ministry, in order to avoid the adverse effects predominantly on the state. Of course, in addition to these dilemmas that I have pointed out to you, there is another dilemma, you did not include it here with the law, but analoguely, if we are talking about the executive procedure and the means of enforcement that should be covered by this law, the question arises – why is it not qualified as the sale of property in bankruptcy? We have a settlement of creditors through the sale of bankruptcy and it is carried out also through public bidding, or public competition, regardless of whether offers are collected as closed or open. It is then that parts of the property of the bankruptcy are alienated. If there is an analogy, then there is also a question of the existence of VAT in relation to bankruptcy, which, according to us and from the point of view of those who deal with this matter, is unacceptable. So, in this direction, you still need to think about how to set certain standards. Of course, these are only suggestions that mean that in the most quality way certain issues are addressed and that the best law, which will have support, as I said, by the MPs of the SPS, is being dealt with. The next law I'm going to look back on is the law on amendments and additions to the Mortgage Act. Dear Ministers, and this law no doubt respects our support, but I must draw your attention. It is true that the Constitutional Court has decided with its own decision how to resolve certain issues. Where good luck is that when we discussed the Mortgage Act, you accepted the SPS amendment, which just pointed to what the Constitutional Court cut off by its decision, which is the obligation to conduct a legal remedy, i.e. appeal and the permission of a lawsuit, so that in the second degree any decision could be reconsidered when it comes to the sale of mortgaged immovableity. The reminders are done by the amendment, which I personally signed, for many things, and most of what literally from the decimal point to the point in the amendment is confirmed by the Constitutional Court by its decision now. In view of this, I think that only a little more and more precisely should be considered the amendments and the text of the amendments in order to avoid these phenomena because that amendment provided for everything, and the deadline for filing the complaint and the time limit for deciding and what is related to the possibility of making a complaint when it comes to initiating the administrative dispute. Of course, this is just one recession, given that there is no need for any specific comment regarding amendments and additions to the Law on Mortgage Amendments and Supplements. Why is there no need? Well, because the Constitutional Court said everything that was to be said. Thank you for your sincere attitude that you have accepted the fact that the failure that was then made should not have been done, which is doubtless, but that it has been corrected by the Constitutional Court decision, which is good and that the SPS Group is now in favour. As far as the other laws are concerned, when it comes to the Republic taxes and the loan you spoke of, I would really not be very qualified or commentary about it, given that it is a matter of clear and precise norms when it comes to the Republic's taxes. The only thing that should come out of this building where we make laws is that citizens understand that it is not a burden for citizens and that citizens do not accept it as a ballast, that they do not welcome these amendments and the additions of the law to the knife, but that they accept only the fact that it is a matter of harmonising the republican taxis where they really do and must be harmonised in respect of certain areas of which you have spoken, such as private security, where the Ministry of the Interior has responded. All in all, these laws need to be passed. These laws should be supported by MPs, all MPs of the Republic's parliament, because they are necessary. Therefore, they will be supported by the SPS parliamentary group, but I ask that all of this I have put forward, through dilemmas and through questions, be in mind because there is a possibility that, possibly through amendments in an individual debate, we will complement, correct and make this even better. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35335	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35336	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, here is another set of laws by emergency procedure. Today, by emergency procedure, we are deciding on the draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, the Proposal for a Law amending the Mortgage Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. When I saw today's call, when I got it on the e-mail, and I saw changes and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, I thought the minister would keep his promise, and let's just say, the VAT from 20 is going to be reduced to 15%, but there's nothing from it. It seems, whenever the finance minister comes, then we, the MPs, support our votes. The congregation's majority, the vast congregation's majority, the dry draining. There is no problem at all, Mr. Minister, respecting the law, aligning with the EU, taxing everything that needs to be taxed, the state must be financed from something, public services must be financed. But what you ministers needed to take care of, which you promised me, if I'm not mistaken, a few months ago when we discussed the extension of the privatisation deadline for those firms in restructuring, when I was talking about shutting down Nis and those two or three companies that had a chance to survive. I expected you to at least ease the tax by imposing and make it easier for citizens, isn't it a problem to pay for all this when people do, but there's a serious problem, a state problem, when people don't work when they don't have the privileges, when they have nothing to pay for naked existence, let alone pay for all the taxes and taxes you prescribed? That's where we differ and not because I'm an opposition MP, but because you and your co-workers on the Ministry's proposal solve it in a cabinet, and the real life and the people is something completely different. Life has no mercy, life is quite cruel and ours here in the Assembly to make that life easier to bear, more certain, with some perspective and I only see taxes. I don't understand your rates, I'm a dentist, I'm a prosthetic, there are people who have given suggestions on what needs to be changed in these laws, but I'm telling you as a citizen, someone who lives in this country, who pays anything to make less and fewer people, south of Sava and Danube, I repeat -- south of Sava and Danube, there's nothing to pay from. During this congregation majority in any aggregate state, tell me what's open south of Sava and Danube? It's not that it's sour grapes, that I'm envious, and that I hate someone, but everything that opens, opens in Vojvodina and Belgrade, nothing under Sava and Danube, or a slow 200-300 jobs, and that's the end and promise that in the next four years it will be open in Nis 4,000 jobs. Who will welcome the next four years? That's the essence of my discussion. I'll say a few words about these laws, but the bottom line is that you as finance minister have to make it easier for the people to live, to pay their commitments to the state. It's okay, the wider the grip, I mean, the more people pay, the less they pay, the easier it's gonna be for everyone. But here the problem is that it comes down to a smaller and smaller number of people who work, and a handful of those who work are working on the budget: the military, the police, the judiciary, health care, education, real economy – there is no. There are no ministers, 40% of the people in Nis, 40,000 workers in Nislji sits at home, 80 to 100,000 people do not have bread. Where does he pay from? Where does he pay the administrative fee? You're talking about how full the Republic of Serbia's budget is. Everything's great. Do you know that your city budgets are being charged with 60-65% and there's been a shooting? It's your duty, you've been given the trust of this assembly to make a proposal for a solution. That's why you're a minister, that's why we listen to you, and that's why people trust you when you tell them, and I'm not telling you about the law right now, I'm telling you about the real life that's due to these laws. Unquestionably, we must harmonise all EU documents, but we have not yet entered the EU. Where do we run, what do we prove, who we prove? So that you may say, we have a budget, I don't know, a deficit reduced three times, eight times, God forbid it's gone, it has a surplus. Come to Nis and tell those people about the surplus of the Republic budget. Come and tell our mayor if he doesn't have a chance to get more than 65%, there's no where, no one to pay. That's what you tell people who get knocked out by the bailiffs. They don't settle their communal obligations. That's what you tell the citizens who are heating up over the heat, and they want to shut down at the beginning of the heating season, but I'm talking about people who don't have an alternative to heating. They don't have the money to pay. This is where the Ministers need you to give a solution. Now let me go back to this subject that you invited us to the congregation for. As far as VAT added tax is concerned, I told you that I expected it to decrease, but that, as far as I can see, there are no indications that you will reduce the amount of 20%. We, although we have this much unemployment rate in all of Serbia, have one of the higher VAT rates in Europe, to be somewhere at the top, to be a little ahead. I wouldn't comment on what my colleagues are, that's what you'll get through the amendments. What I would like to comment on is the Mortgage Act and here we are asking why these amendments were not met with amendments to the law in July of the month because it was obvious that the Constitutional Court had postponed the publication of a decision on the unconstitutional nature of Article 31. The mortgage law, thus leaving the possibility to amend the law in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision in the framework of those amendments in July. Since, Mr. Minister, that didn't happen then the Constitutional Court made a decision, and we're here for the second time in this room, we're discussing the Mortgage Act. I think it goes to your soul because, in addition to being a kind of economist, you have in your ministry and lawyers who need to suggest whether something is in accordance with the law, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or not, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about this Law on Administrative Taxes, you say that the law changes to the initiative of the MUP, the Ministry of Mining and Energy, the Ministry of Construction, Transport, Infrastructure, Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour. The fact is that a certain number of taxis is abolished due to the legal suspension of certain traffic grounds, for example, but that most of these taxis are introduced for requirements for the issue of certain licences. The example is working on a licence application in the area of fire protection, which we do not support, all of which is a new imposition of businesses that can't pay for an ever-increasing procedure anyway. In our opinion, Mr. Minister, it's unacceptable, extra taxation of those who already pay a lot of taxes and taxis. In some areas, you have replaced the nominal amount of taxis with a percentage, so I would ask you, since that first part I don't believe you're going to answer me, to tell me in the mining area on a specific case, to convince me that it's more favourable for miners to go to a percentage than to a nominal amount when we talk about mining. Another question, how do you think you are developing entrepreneurship, private initiative, employment and self-employment of young people in Serbia when you impose a duty in heading number two, to pay a tax of 12,000 dinars on application for interpretation of the rules. I'm just wondering if you Ministry ever get in line and pay a tax, do you ever feel what it looks like for what's called paying for a citizen's service is paid this much? What do you want to cover with these constraints? Requests to interpret regulations, a fee of 12,000 dinars. For what? What's it cost, Minister, 12,000 dinars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35337	Thank you. I take it no one's answering any more MPs? Do you want to answer the Minister's question? I see you've reached out, but I'm asking the heads of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to report that they're speaking, because I'm going to move on to the list of MPs, because that allows me to do so by the Rules of Procedure. So, don't calculate, but get in touch with your speech, because you're only registered here in writing, but I can't make someone talk if they don't want to at this point. Dr. Dusan Vujovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35338	I thank you, for some of the very precise and interpretations of what is being passed in these laws, which is good. I mean, if it were very good to confirm that we're on the same wavelength, on the same side, which they would say, too, on very useful suggestions what to do. I expect these suggestions to be found in the amendments, which are proposed. Obviously, we don't have a perfect, no billing system, no checking out what's good in these laws, and I can see, I don't think I'd be opening this topic any deeper today, maybe some committee to make a special appointment, that there's a deep correlation between some of the solutions that we take from market economies, some instruments and some of the institutions of our right that look at it differently. I think it would be worth a more serious debate, because I see here that the laws are aimed at the protection of individual rights, which is very good, but there are some market institutes that lift the right to protect ownership and the right of creditors above individual rights and say if an individual enters certain bond relations, or mortgage relations, then accepts some rules that are different. I'd also like to ask the lawyers to help us figure out how to apply the concept outside of the court execution, which is everywhere there, on which some key elements are based, to apply to us. I understand that it's perfectly logical, that you expect some process, but it's not practical. In the coming years, we won't have competitive creditors financing mortgage loans, where he can't be charged in case someone breaks contract members. The essence of the debate is that what is a violation that can trigger that mortgage user reaching out for a mortgage. The situation we have today, which we looked at at at the Privatisation Agency, where you have billions of covered mortgages that don't come true, it's not normal, it's a mortgage that's a piece of paper that we called a mortgage, and then when we tolerate it for ten years, we get into a situation that no one can solve right now. We now have "empiles" four billion euros and this is not an individual responsibility, this is something that we in our system, legally and economically, have not integrated to the end. So, then you have a paradox on the other hand, that someone on the most ordinary trade finance loans is looking for additional mortgage security, because they don't trust anything else, it's a complete paradox, because it spreads to an area that nowhere in the world is about commercial loans that are guaranteed by themselves looking for a mortgage. You will find a paradox in Serbia, that the company has split up, and that there is a mortgage left in a building of a company that has left, means a completely one legal absurdity, that there is a mortgage, and now this one cannot have the property that has been allocated to him in the process. So we have, we've made such a mess of economic-legal law, that we should all try very hard to get in the way of it. I accept, the mistake was, that's what I said in the first sentence, so we overlooked it, because the formulation was such that it didn't ultimately reflect the essence of this instrument and security. The Constitutional Court made a complaint and we acted on that remark. Could we have known earlier, if we could follow the suggestion of colleague Nedja Jovanovic, we probably have, but we are also working on suggestions, therefore this is an opportunity to correct it. I learned from this that we should check it out and watch it carefully and do it. We're correcting what we missed last time, but I'm not sure after this either, and you colleagues said very well, I'm not sure it'll satisfy the creditors. Creditors expect that according to a different procedure than normal court proceedings, they will come up with assets on which they have mortgaged, since it was a condition for them to lend credit to someone. So there's no one to cheat on, it was a condition, he said – I'll give you a loan; so the house is credited three times cheaper, three times the interest rate has because it's secured by mortgage. So, you don't give home loans there for 30 years with 2% if you take a non-secured loan, it's going to be 6% every five years, and this is 2% per 30 years. So there should be an economy and a right understanding of why someone gives you privileged conditions. In Switzerland, he allows you to pay interest, and the principal will not be paid until you sell real estate. So you're just going to pay the interest at 1%, but it's secured by a mortgage and it's known how it's being realized. If he couldn't get to the building, whatever the mortgage is on in the process, then the whole deal, that deal, that legal relationship would be void. So we need to understand that and realize that we haven't integrated it to the end. Given that, I fully agree with your suggestions and we will incorporate that. Just one note. I agree in principle with the fact that we have levels of amending laws where no one can handle it. This is precisely why we are preparing these VAT changes, firstly the text of the law will be cleansed as soon as this law is passed, and secondly, we are preparing a single rule that will unite all procedures, all forms, all processes, and it will be done as soon as possible. So we get it, and it's in co-operation with the Ministry of Finance and the IRS, we deliver it to everyone, it'll be on the site, it'll be everywhere. I suggest they be active electronic tables, so anyone can use it. We're moving on to an electronic tax system, which is what we should offer to everyone. Only in such a system can we be more efficient, expand the base and more evenly deploy the tax burden. As for the gross net amount in these forms of our specific, warm meal, transportation, etc., we're just trying to explain what was before and it was partially unclear. We're saying now - gross for gross. The employer gives the gross amount as the final consumption of what it gives to workers. They spend it as gross consumption, they have no right to seek vomit. If the employer buys a stamp for transportation or a transport ticket, they also pay a gross amount, so we want to make it simple to know exactly. Otherwise, an earlier concept in which he was giving, so he had the right to report it as vomit and not as a final consumption, it's too complicated. We have very many things that are small at value and very much complicate the processes, very much complicate the tax inspection process and everything else, and we don't want to make 600 dinars per person per month into tax offences. We want it to be simple, direct and simple. Nothing's going to change, just by law, we codify what happens in practice. As far as tax equality is concerned, so we're not introducing new taxes here, we're reducing. So we're reducing in transport, avoiding that difference between city and city. We're reducing by 20, those who were at 20 now are all going to be at 10. Why does it matter? They've turned our attention that there are some border cases where some bus may be trafficling and intercity, but part of it is being treated locally, so people are driving to the periphery on that bus. We're trying to avoid these bumps where it's not clear what's going on. I don't know, we make it slow to one place and then to another place, but our intention here is to clean it up, simplify it, and where we can cut it down. It's not about large amounts, but it's about us trying to simplify. Will the transporters ask for it at the price? Where there's competition, I think they will, and there's competition. It seems to me, if there are some areas with us where there is competition, it's competition with these little buses, mini basses, etc. So that's where I assume the cost reduction will have an effect. As for the question of rates, percentages and values, I agree that it would be good to set values, but in some situations, such as these construction and energy facilities, you have de facto complexity of work. So, the tax pays papers, paperwork, but also some favors. The complexity of the project is proportional to the value of the project. Therefore, our ministry colleagues have proposed and we have adopted the view that the percentage of 0.03% of the project's pre-account value is something that is realistic. So if the facility is five million dinars, it's not the same business administration that gives some permits, it's when it's worth 100 million. That's why we left an unchanged rate of 0.03% for the first issue, but we dropped from 0.03% to 0.01% for the extension, because there's less work to do. So, the fixed part of the job, etc. It's supposed to be preserved in the case, and that's why we cut it down. Our intention was good. Can we transfer that to a fixed amount? We can ask, but I think the situation is such that more complex projects require more work. Our goal is not to impose force on the villa, our goal is for the state administration at all levels to cover the cost of providing real services. Now, it's true that people are poor. But poor people don't usually ask for services that are so expensive and to which taxes are high. You see, from 0.3%, 0.03% is pre-account value, whoever's looking for a project like that has money because they're doing a project. Finally, the question of execution. So in execution, this isn't the first time we've come back to having a concept of just one kind of execution. There are various concepts of execution in the world. We can't change that with these little changes, but it would be good to consider once that there are private executions. Our concept of mortgages and especially lising will never break if we don't have an execution that's different, which isn't about a trial that's been going on for months, for years. No one will give you a lick when he realizes that in Serbia he can't actually return the car he gave someone to, even though he stopped paying the monthly war. Everywhere in the world he has private perpetrators who say – you have signed. So it's very important that this document based on which legal work was done is written that he agrees that Mercedes can be taken from him if he doesn't pay for the monthly war. There, that's the point. So that's where we're supposed to go from, and not from it, it's not, it's not... It doesn't protect poor people. It protects wealthy people who may be out of trouble, and sometimes in situations that are not under their control. I'm just saying, there's interpolated insurance everywhere in the world. So, if something happened out of trouble, let's say, someone rented a bus, so something happened, then insurance in such situations comes in and covers the difference, there's a secure case, or his business goes bankrupt, then he stops his house from being taken away, insurance covers it. Lastly, very important, I have not seen with us the concept of mortgage insurance and all the legal institutes on which it is based. Nice fellow Jovanovic said what was going on in charge. Just to point out, the tax is paid by the buyer, the bank is charged from that income and the rest is paid back to the original owner. So if someone bought an apartment for 100 million, so they don't pay, the bank sells it for 80, charges their 75, and the remaining five to the owner. So that system is very simple. It's such a system of billing. A man has the right to appear at that auction when the bank sells, although he did, in the meantime, enters a conflict with the bank, another financier, or is offered to him by a friend, a brother, a wife, etc. to buy that right, that he actually gets the benefit of falling to the value of the mortgage. That's what happened in America. So when the value of the property fell, then the bank has a loss. A bank with a loss of sale of real estate to collect, since it will include it in its profits, or loss, buys at a lower price and at least a part of the loss has passed on to the process, but with us it is as if someone has asked the question – what happens when it is sold at a lower price. Everywhere in the world, from the most common sale to the loss, to the NPL solution, there is a clearly defined process everywhere that the reduced value is reflected and that, in the manner and by the procedure acceptable to the tax administration, a lower value is reported, i.e. loss is rejected from profit. We are working to make this all clear, but we need more effort and there will be more laws in the coming months that we will implement in realisation, especially when we talk about the implementation of the NPL Resolution Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35339	Dear People's MPs, you have accepted the resignation of Jane Ljubicic as Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, in accordance with Article 33(4) and Article 35(1). The Law on the National Assembly, I realize that Jani Ljubic has ceased to serve as Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the day and hour of his resignation. I thank you, Miss Ljubic. The word has been given by MP Mirko Chikiriz, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35340	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, you have just said in this previous presentation what I wanted to ask, and that is whether there will be a consolidated text of the VAT Act and whether it will be that unique regulation, because what Mr. Jovanovic said, that is what I think, businessmen, especially those who have small businesses, are very difficult to manage in all of this, because the dynamics of changing regulations are the way it is. As far as VAT law and amendments and additions are concerned, you have achieved several goals with this law that our political party has always advocated. One broader tax base is created and one lower interest rate for areas that treat these changes. What good is that for? It's good that we tax those who do business, trade, provide services to our country, and above all I mean foreign natural persons, whether they have a residence or not, and on the side of legal persons, whether they have a seat or not, because they're de facto doing business, and so far they haven't been in the VAT system. On the other hand, it is good that in the era of the acquisition of everything and everything, I hope that it will cheapen transport services, as well as the unique tax rate for suburban, urban and international transport is something that will certainly work stimulatingly on carriers, because the tax rate of 10% compared to VAT is certainly something that can stimulate businesses to deliver their services in a better way. In addition to this, I would say that these changes are one soft way to regulate and improve tax discipline and it is a good thing that a new Institute of Tax Powers is being introduced that exists everywhere in the world and that it will be fully committed to the person who represents it in front of the tax authorities of our country. What's also good is that 10% accommodation services are charged according to unique criteria, regardless of whether accommodation services are provided by hotels, motels, hostels, private persons in their facilities, etc. And that's something the SPO will absolutely support. As for the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, two conclusions are immediately imposed. The first conclusion is that some fees are abolished, but it is such a more insignificant part and will not affect the vast majority of Serbian citizens. The second is the introduction of fees for the provision of certain services by state authorities which were not now covered by the Republic's administrative fees, as well as the third to increase some taxes. I have carefully read the law, the reasoning and listened to what Mr. Minister said and what my fellow MPs have said and it seems to me that without any special entry into the essence, because many areas treated by the Republic's administrative tax, we will, in particular, have a lot of amendments, they are mostly going in two directions: either to reduce the tax or to abolish for certain categories of service provision, declare and each MP, each minister would like to see taxes lower and not be taxis, but I think that they are really in some segments of tax too high. No one here mentioned the security of public gatherings in terms of, say, the game, so there's a fee of 12 grand and some dinars, and then at least three cops, 800 and close to 900 dinars per hour, etc. It's something that was previously tried to introduce, however, was a major resistance to clubs, sports alliances, associations quite established, because simply a special amateur sport itself funded itself. Mostly people who deal with this sport buy their own uniforms, even maintain sports grounds. The parents are here to help the children and I think this is something that will negatively affect the development of our sport and that many clubs will choke. I think there should have been a certain rank here, so it's not the same if some first-class club is going to pay this to the MUP, sure there's going to be a bigger number of faces and a bigger number of members of the Ministry of the Interior, but for some clubs that really don't have any training to pay this kind of tax, I don't think it's going to speed up the development of sports, because we live in the time of a minister that's really very hard. The nation goes crazy every day with very negative messages from television, first of all with national frequencies, with these reality shows, where, unfortunately, many individuals may be in doubt that they are in a more advanced phase of mental illness. They promote certain values that the Serbian Renewal Movement says are a system of donkey values. We need in every way to speed up the development of sports and speed up the development of each other's values for which SPO has always stood. That is why we bear the name of this, the restoration of the traditional values of the Serbian people. On the other hand, it's good to say that there are no taxes for victims of domestic violence and there is no political party that will not support it. However, I think disabled persons should have been added here, especially disabled persons with 100% disability or above a certain percentage of disability. I think their position is much more difficult with respect to the situation of victims of domestic violence compared to victims of domestic violence. On the other hand, you and the ministers, and I think every minister in this category of persons needs to pay special attention to the rules. For what? For two things. The first thing is that we as a state are signatories to all international conventions on respect for the rights of disabled persons, and the second is that in practice this is very rarely applied and that persons with special needs, disabled persons, besides being prevented from having their regular activities, life activities carried out daily in a very difficult way, with very large family denials and engagements. I think any law that exempts certain obligations or citizens of a particular category, first of all, should focus on the attention of each ministry of disabled persons. We will thus show that we are not only human in words, but that we are human and in action. I absolutely understood that when giving some consent, of course, many employees in the state authorities have a lot of work to do, it's especially with large investments in building large objects, when it's not just a matter of administrative nature to stamp and sign, but when you really need to study the project and carry out and give some consent, but I say, in particular, we're going to get closer to saying about each of the taxis that are subject to amendment intervention. You ministers were very correct about amending the Mortgage Act, which is why this change is taking place. Like Mr Neđo Jovanovic and I am one of the MPs who then pointed to the basic postulates of the legal system of the institute, it is the right to appeal, the right to the two-stage procedure. There was no hearing at the time, and I'm not going to stand in your misery any further, and I thank you very correctly for saying that it was obviously the Ministry's fault. Of course, you deal primarily with finance, that you don't have in your ranks probably lawyers who deal with other branches of law, but in any case there are other ministries and professional services to give certain advice, so that we don't come into this situation anymore. As far as the law on confirming a framework loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and Serbia is concerned, very few MPs have even talked about this at all, so I am someone who has been in this county prison in Pancheva, which is probably the only one in Europe, certainly the only one in Serbia in the city center, of course it is extremely unpopular in the pedestrian zone, around where the catering facilities are and where is the Pančevaca promenade, is the County Prison. It's a good thing we get this loan on very favourable terms, a grace period of five years, a 20-year payment deadline. There are also provisions for not withdrawing funds because if we are late with the projects and I know the ministers that you know, our public knows, the MPs know that because we did not have adequate projects in some recent past we suffered great damage. First of all, it concerns that loan for the Railways and some other loans when our designers from the Ministry who were supposed to control the deadlines for project making were simply scheduled, and when we as a state and lost funds and paid for certain foams. I hope this doesn't happen with the construction of a new prison, a semi-open type in Panchev, which will be provided for the housing of 500 persons, of which 200 persons in custody in the investigation procedure, 300 persons with a judicial sentence of over five years in prison. It will be a prison done according to European standards. We know the analysis of the situation in our prisons, it's what it is, the prisons are pretty shabby, overcrowded, here will be a three-story prison, on the economy of the current county court in Pancheva, seven kilometers from the city, which in any case is the final solution to one big problem that burdened the Pancecs. For all the reasons I put out the SPO and the DHSS will vote for all these laws in the day of voting, with one assessment that you ministers, without any intention of advocacy, are a very pleasant surprise. We knew you had a great biography, but we didn't know how you'd manage in this place. You've found a great number of problems, a huge complexity of work, but for now you're a good swimmer, and as long as that happens, you'll have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35341	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35342	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will go in a different order. I'll start with the loan agreement first, where I won't say it's bad to be in debt. It's a good thing we're in charge of resolving the issue of prison in Panchev, and it's a good thing it's a grace period of five years. However, it bothers me when the current governor comes to the Finance Committee and then criticises some previous government that it allegedly owes itself to those who have come to power now to return those loans. That's total nonsense, and we heard it last week on the Finance Committee. What's also indisputable for us from the DS is to amend the Mortgage Act. I think the only problem that has not been seen in time in the communication between the state authorities and the Constitutional Court is that it will be certain that such a decision will be announced, so nine days after the entry into force, the amendments and the additions to force, a decision of the Constitutional Court confirming the constitutional right of every citizen to appeal and press charges, if he considers that his right is not legally respected. It's something that should have been our priority and is a big problem for 20% of the non-refundable loans of the banking system, but I still think that in Serbia the life of every citizen is a priority, and it's known how much someone is in a big problem when they need to lose the only real estate they have. As for the Law on Administrative Taxes, it was said that changes were being prepared and that they should come as soon as possible in the congregation procedure. They came, but we expected, we, the MPs, to be more comprehensive and not only to include those changes concerning the direct revenues of the state, not only to include changes that were necessary, in order for the system to function, because it did not work precisely because there was no solution for certain procedures. We also expected to change the part about the evidence for payment, especially when it comes to electronic payments, to fix the information system, to reduce the abuse and loss of the state on false payments, non-existent payments, especially when it comes to payments for motor vehicles, you are certainly informed of that. I think it could have been seen by some state authorities who introduced modern information systems and made it possible for certain procedures and software solutions to have precise records and to know whether or not the payment was made. I think we should have changed the whole law, not just this part, and that would certainly be better. We support the elimination of taxes on victims of domestic violence and support the overall and comprehensive amendment of the law, simply so that we can see the ratio of taxi heights. We couldn't properly look at all the fees with these changes, simply because this change treats only individual members and we couldn't deal with other members, so that these proposed cab heights would change. I suggest you consider these parts that aren't covered by changes as soon as possible on the agenda. In that sense, I've also spoken to your assistant, and I think that's where we need to find agreement. The law for which we will not give support is an amendment to the VAT Act. This law primarily concerns businesses, businesses, and I also think that it should have been comprehensive, so the change should have been comprehensive, that the entire VAT law should have been passed in a new form, because I think we have a big problem, precisely because we are passing laws and they are not in line with the possibilities of the system. It shows, say, today, when we talk about company financial reports, where we and today don't have complete reports for the previous year, and we can't see what impact these changes will have on the existing companies. The Bilten Agency for Business Registers has appeared, based on the mandatory statistics they had and it is talking about increasing the net loss of the economy from nearly 550 billion in last year compared to 478 billion losses in 2013 and lower profits achieved by successful companies than in 2013 and it is 417 billion in last year compared to 447 billion in 2013. These data speak of the link between the problem, the link between the laws we bring and their impact on the economy that can be bad. In the situation where our economy is, we can't make these mistakes, because then we simply can't react in time and it happens that we have a situation where we can't realistically look at the problems that the subjects are in. Also, what is said in Bilten and what we can't see yet – the number of employees in large enterprises in 2014 has been reduced by a total of 126 thousand, as it was 430 thousand in 2013, and in the past 304 thousand, while in the medium-sized societies, the decline is somewhat smaller and measured by a 96 index or absolute figures compared to 199,000 workers in the past year and 207 thousand in the previous year. I think this clearly says that medium and large enterprises are in trouble, and we are in additional procedures and additional bureaucracy that we are proposing to amend the VAT Act will not help, and I will explain later why I think so, and you can answer me if you think maybe otherwise. But, of course, what's a fact, is that we had a total reduction in the number of workers for the whole 19 thousand 2014 compared to 2013 in the real sector, and that should be the only indicator for the level of success of the reforms being conducted in Serbia, not statistics relating above all to how the records are kept. And that's something we should pay attention to. The number of companies decreased by 2,000. That's an alarming piece of information. What is good in these proposed changes is to comply with EU rules, define a foreign person as a taxpayer and specify transport in terms of energy for heating, cooling, electricity, which I believe was necessary to bring into line. Also, intercity transport, catering facilities, is also a good and expected change. But I don't share optimism that it will significantly contribute to price reductions, simply because this sector generates one bigger tax ejaculation and I think there's already serious evasion. In that sense, I don't think it will have a significant impact on prices. This tax indiscipline should be resolved in another way. What I think is bad, and in that sense I submitted the amendment, you were talking about electronic records and the need to provide, first of all, one quality database at the level of the tax administration, so that the tax inspector could exercise insight and control, preventive, and not ask businesses to prepare records for the tax administration to exercise control. Why would it be an obligation for a taxpayer to make state checks on which the tax administration will make tax control easier? I think that's wrong. The tax administration should primarily provide a system that will enable it based on the existing data the Tax Administration has and may have to ensure a smooth tax charge in one large amount, and this solution that you have proposed could wait for the completion of that procedure that you have spoken of, and it is done by electronic records that will undoubtedly allow far better collection and far greater, but what I really resent is the unwarranted burden on businesses by additional procedures, additional bureaucracy, because now the taxpayer is obliged to, with the tax application of preparation and records. Imagine a commercial company that has like a thousand invoices, a small commercial company that has to pay bookkeeping services, and has a thousand invoices a month, so it takes for a tax period to prepare that special form that you will bring. I don't think it's going to be easy and it won't be cost-free, and in that sense I don't agree with the argument that it's not going to produce any additional costs for economic operators because it's quite clear that it's going to have additional bureaucratic and accounting costs and obligations and most of them are probably going to be in trouble to file tax returns on time because it's kind of binding now that, with the tax application, you hand over and review the VAT billing, which is really going to be a big challenge for some companies. I think we should help small businesses, we should help medium-sized enterprises that don't have the kind of bookkeeping capacity they're expected to do in this way for the state, because this is a real service for the state. If the state wants to control something, it should first create conditions and secure on its own side a system that can be implemented based on existing tax returns. It's very simple to carry out control of the parallel data and then we can get to the data where the problem arises and where the greatest risk of tax ejaculation is. But no, we don't decide to change the situation ourselves, to strengthen the capacity of the tax administration. Therefore, the tax administration does not have adequate capacity. New professional capacities and new people in the tax administration are needed in order to achieve the plan when it comes to tax collection, but in some ways this is being taken aside. We have, let's say, on the one hand, a state administration that employs too many unnecessarily unnecessarily personnel, and on the other hand, we have a great need for, say, tax administration personnel to control, but it can't be done simply because the state administration can't take employees with that dynamic. Then we come up with the worst possible solution, then we'll tell the businessmen -- let's do the software, let's do whatever it takes, just make it transparent, make them good tables, and then we'll see if there's a possibility that you're tax evasion. Well, no, I think the businessmen are just fulfilling their obligations to the state so that the state can take these unnecessary things off them, that they don't have to do this, because, I say, there's a big problem with liquidity, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and the additional costs they're going to have on accounting and paying unnecessary bureaucracy certainly won't help them. For this reason, we will not support this law, although we believe that certain changes are necessary and adequate. Also, I repeat once again, a comprehensive VAT law should be passed, a completely new law should be brought, that the whole text should then simply be cleansed and we should come up with solutions that are most effective for our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35343	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (Yes) The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I am going to take the reverse turn and commend the confirmation of the Loan Agreement. It's true that we were on the Finance Committee talking about a lot. It's just that a colleague who spoke before me avoided saying all the details of what the Finance Committee was discussing. One question was, let's look at the budgets of the Republic of Serbia 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, how much of the budget of the Republic of Serbia provided for the funds for payment of penalty foams on the basis of approved loans rather than withdrawn loans? Let's talk about it. So, we were withdrawing software loans that affected the country's credit rating, on its credit rating, which we never realised, which is why we paid fines to financial institutions that reserved funds for those loans. We of the SNS don't act as winners of the five-octobarian revolutions, as if the world began our coming to power. Well, please also those who would like to show that they realize that this government and the previous government have to solve the problems of the old governments, some have been inherited, some have been made during the old governments, so that they can begin to solve and solve the problems that this country has. The issue of public debt is, of course, one of the problems Serbia has. The issue of public debt that this government is not guilty of, the austerity measures that this government is carrying out for which it is not guilty, tax and reform processes that have to be implemented, and not implemented for years, and some parties have boasted that only have a monopoly over the EU, and we have seen the results. It is the Mortgage Act that one of the laws that I can say is one misunderstanding of our legal system with the EU legal system, which is that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to judicial protection and it is not disputed that the Constitutional Court has made that decision. We will respect any decision of the Constitutional Court, even this one. Just as you should respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court which said that the Law on restricting salaries of public sector employees and pensions is in accordance with the Constitution, and this same Constitutional Court has been constantly threatened by the National Assembly in order to create cheap political problems, which this government must carry out due to the problems it did not cause. The value added tax law. So far, there have been criticisms that the value added tax has increased. It is in one part of the economy, in one part of the business, but now it's reducing the value added tax. We don't expect you to commend it, but at least don't talk anymore about how we keep raising taxes. That's not true. Every tax raise, why don't you tell me where that money's going? Does anyone really think that this government really loves and really wants to, like, make mistakes to the people and raise taxes that way? Why don't you say those taxes make roads? Why don't you say that these taxes provide health care for our citizens, to provide means of education, for the military, for the police? The only thing I regret is providing funds for both loans and loans for which this government has no responsibility at all. That's our biggest problem. You can imagine what it looks like when a state in 2015 is supposed to pay 130 billion dinars in the name of interest loans that this government hasn't raised. That's a billion euros. That's 3% of our gross income. That's why we have to keep doing tax reform all the time. The very reform of this law is finally to determine how the value added tax is regulated when the property is acquired. There was too much interpretation. Each tax administration carried out according to its own intent and some of its estimates how to implement it in the tax procedure and tax administration. I don't see what's going on here. Also, when it comes to energy distribution, we have to solve that question. As you know, at present, one major reform is perhaps the most important business branch in Serbia, still healthy, which has managed to preserve itself next to everyone who has seen it as a chicken to be harvested, which is the Elektroprivreda of Serbia where one serious reform is done. So it will be defined exactly who produces electricity, who produces heat energy, where distribution is done, and therefore we should have this value added tax law to bring one of our perhaps vital and most important systems that Serbia has. So, the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes itself also regulates certain areas that were caused by the adoption of previous laws, how and how to implement the tax on the service provided by the State, but those charges concern those who carry out certain activities, not citizens, and you should have said that. No fiscal basis for citizens is being extended, and of these amendments and the addition of the law, we will only have a more orderly area on public income and nothing more. But I would like each and every one of us, at least when discussing, to accept that part of responsibility for what he supported in the National Assembly, to exercise power, not to prescribe his merits to others. We have our own, both good and bad, and we don't give them up, but that's not how you need your bad and don't move on us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35345	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. We move to the order of the MPs according to the application for a joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 4. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35346	I thought I was second, Mr. Chairman, but fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35347	You're right, it is after Mr Marinkovic, but Marinkovic is not present right now, so he switched with another MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35348	Okay. Thank you. My esteemed colleague Jovanovic has already said a lot. I think it's always good and I'm sorry, maybe Mr. Arsic didn't hear that part of the exposure, it's always good when the VAT is reduced, especially for these categories that are proposed in the amendment of the VAT Act. I think that segment should be supported anyway. Our criticism has gone and will go towards criticism, therefore, this criticism applies first of all to increasing red tape, increasing paperwork for small and medium-sized enterprises, for entrepreneurs who will have to submit additional reports, stressing two things. First of all, they have higher costs and secondly, that the Administration of the Republic's income is not at this moment able to respond to the challenges that time imposes and that we know both you and I and Minister Vujovic that not only should everything be placed under electronic application, but should be introduced as soon as possible by both tax control and VAT through the so-called so-called. “il time” and through the website, through an increase in the number of professional contractors, through the computing of the Administration of Revenue and all that includes a unique record of income, property, social giving, wages and everything else that applies to our citizens, as people say, by clicking on a single click to obtain a complete record for each citizen. That's the goal to pursue. That's what we're proposing. Until it's done, we won't know what citizens' incomes are, or whether they have any additional income, or what their specific property is, or whether someone who has too much property and too much income gets both social assistance, as you know, it happens in Serbia. That's where our savings are. And not just paying the interest on the loans they took earlier. I accept that argument only in the sense that your government has done absolutely nothing in a strong conversation with international financial institutions, with Kristin Lagarde and other people who are and how it is competent to talk to them about the moratorium on paying off external debt or some other kind of delaying this obligation, which would bring the state of Serbia over a billion euros a year for reforms to be implemented, which citizens would feel less on their backs, when you already don't feel, not you personally, but your authority, on your back. Why didn't the prime minister try it, but he said I'm bigger than you? Why didn't he tell Mrs. Lagarde, but he said – press us even harder, we can give in even more, I love it? That's what kills the future of our people and that's what kills the Serbian economy, and that's what kills the standard of living of Serbian citizens. In any case, as Mr Jovanovic said, an esteemed colleague, in the never-published APR bulletin, the figures to be repeated have been published. The net economic loss of nearly 550 billion last year, compared to 478 billion in 2013, increased economic losses, while the profits made by successful firms were about 417 billion, compared to 447.5 billion in the previous year. Today as we speak, official data from the Republic Statistics Institute has been released, today, that the average salary in Serbia has fallen by 4% compared to the same month last year. The average salary in Serbia is lower. We can shoot ourselves with statistics by tomorrow, it's a well-known thing that the prime minister loves to do, but it doesn't mean anything because Serbian citizens, unfortunately, are getting poorer, prices are increasing, you've raised all taxes and reduced revenues. You explain to me this phenomenon that you've increased both property tax and VAT tax, you've increased, and incomes are lower. Your contributions have dropped, and you say that employment has increased in Serbia. That alchemy your authority is dealing with is inexplicable. That's inexplicable. Who's gonna listen to that now? I don't rely much on statistics. It's enough to ask the citizens of Serbia what they think and they say, they feel on their skin -- imperceptibility, poverty, poverty, unemployment. Imagine you, dear colleague, as long as you will have to return one day, I hope as soon as possible, that you have reduced wages and pensions illegally and unconstitutionally, no matter what the Constitutional Court has said. It's my right to say it. It's my right to say it. (Marco Atlagic, from the post: You are an MP, you can't say that. It doesn't matter that I'm an MP. Their decision is disastrous, that's what Strasbourg will confirm, so we'll have to go back. You'll see I'm right. You'll see I'm right. The government that comes after you will have to pay back the pensions you illegally took off the pensioners in Serbia. The government that comes after you, you say, interest, you're right, for loans taken earlier. Imagine what we will have to pay for "Belgrade on Water". Imagine what we're going to have to do for 20 years, we have no control at all. Here is the amendment to the Mortgage Act. In this law, which has been amended twice this year, you did not find it appropriate, as you are calling on the Constitutional Court to imitate what is clearly contrary to the bill itself, and now you are making it, which is that against the Mortgage Act, in the act that reads, it is not allowed to press charges or legal remedy, these are amendments to the laws that you have passed to Serbia. Do you know why I'm bringing this up today? Because in the contract and the Lex specialise on "Belgrade on Water" you have a similar provision, which says no court decision, no decision by the administrative authority, any state body of the Republic of Serbia, can stop any regulation from carrying out this legal work. Here, lawyers, distinguished colleagues. Is it the same as what you're correcting today? Well, it is. So how can any of you who has a gram of justice, professions inside you and have to say it's not the same? It's the same. Why would you allow that? Who's gonna fix that? Power after you. Who will stop this kidnapping of Belgrade? Arbitrage? He won't. We're gonna lose again. You've set up laws to confiscate property. We're gonna have to nationalize what you're doing. Yes, yes, let's nationalize, gentlemen, and I'm not afraid to tell you, as we will have to from the citizens of Serbia to return what you have taken from them today, wages and pensions, one day. In the end, since there's no one else because you've provided yourself with laws, you've set up your business, you've made a Lex special, you've done everything, there's no other. There's no other way. We'll pay the damages. We'll pay compensation to a famous investor who didn't bring the stamp when he signed the contract. He didn't bring the seal. So let the citizens come on Sunday at five to twelve to ask them what they're doing in this Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35349	Mr. Stefanovic, can you come back to the topic a little bit, since what you're saying and exposing has nothing to do with the subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35350	Yeah, same as Mr. Arsic, but I don't really want to fight. What is certain is that we have some good provisions relating to equality in VAT – for hostels, for hotels and accommodation facilities, which will contribute to the development of tourism, that is good. We have a good thing about bus transport, city and city transport, that's good. That's good stuff. Well, no one in their right mind would criticise that. But this submission of the report, this additional administration, this additional paperwork of people who can't end up putting together, the additional cost of inexplicably, except, I repeat, if it's a public recognition that the Tax Administration of Serbia cannot, we know that it can't function independently, we know that it can't financially endure human beings and that there's no possibility of carrying out reforms that are necessary, and the minister also agrees with the electronic application and the possibility that the tax administration, one day after the advance, will be an independent body in this country, an independent body. And that they can control tax revenues and tax property and the origin of property in a way that doesn't apply, gentlemen, we'll introduce it when you leave. Now, I hope we don't wait, but that's what the citizens will decide. I think it's clear that the loan agreement that we from the Democratic Party are going to vote on certainly, which is being borrowed from the Council of Europe Development Bank to rebuild the prison in Mitrovica, you'll agree that how you run this power, I think there will be plenty of consummations and it is time to provide them with a brighter future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35351	According to the Rules of Procedure? Alexander Jovicic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35352	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm advertising Article 106. Rules of Procedure, the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. We have heard here that a respected colleague, a former regime representative, talked about everything but the agenda, among other things, talked about the project "Belgrade on Water", and I don't think he has any information, nor has he asked enough about what this project represents for Serbia for Belgrade, and they only know that they are attacking him for the reason that Mr. Aleksandar Vukic and this government are conducting it. I want to say one thing to the citizens of Serbia, why does the Democratic Party attack the "Belgrade on Water" project so much? I've been thinking for nights, and I've come to the conclusion, and that's only for one reason, that Mr. Sutanovac won't be able to build buildings like he built on meadows in Vrakar, during their power, just because they won't be able to put money in their pockets anymore, because they say the contract is harmful. Excuse me, gentlemen, we also have a contract when we talk about "Belgrade on Water", and also when we talk about "ER Serbia" we published on the site and is available to every citizen in our country. Unlike you, hiding all possible contracts in this country, putting them in drawers and waiting for it to be forgotten, and putting the money in your pockets. It's not happening anymore. You've had all the time in the world to at least clean up something in a location that's the most attractive in Serbia for investors to make a profit in our budget. You didn't know, incompetence is a word that describes your rule and I hope that this incompetence will never again be in a position to decide anything about Serbia or God forbid it leads Serbia. This is what I end up with. You left us the ladies, you left us the dump and everything you didn't know to clean up, and today we're building on a location that you've completely forgotten.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35353	Thank you, Mr. Jovicevic. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure, because I warned Mr. Stefanovic not to talk about the agenda. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35354	Yes, a member of the 107th Dignity of Parliament, the dignity of the people is ultimately injured here, someone here has cited nationalization. You know, the ones who ran it here and had the least democratic capacity. You've had more than a few dishes, you know. And here someone wants to introduce it to us now, to scare investors to come here, and since they've been so brave that you haven't nationalized the property you sold, let's say Darka Saric, you've sold him our agricultural combinations. Why weren't you so brave to nationalize his property when he destroyed the combination or Milet Jerkovic, and some similar tycoon of yours, to whom you so squandered our property, or put it into debauchery. You announce nationalization, you announce something common sense cannot accept in the 21st century. Well, is it possible that these European values you've advocated? You're telling us that when you come to power, you'll confiscate people's property. I thought that time had passed, I believe that perhaps according to some of your understandings we will soon have an announcement on your part, perhaps and some new Google Island don't give God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35355	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The same explanation, I warned Mr Stefanovic at one point, that he was not talking about the agenda, so I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. I thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35356	Article 108, Mr. Chairman. I am truly surprised, I believe, as most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and will not ask for a statement by the Parliament on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but also from Mr Stefanovic, who was on an independent basis, on the independence of journalism and the media in Serbia, announced eggs and stones, now announces the abolition of the Constitutional Court and the abolition of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. (Borko Stefanovic, from the place: No pebbles... ) It is likely that, after the Constitutional Court was abolished, a proposal to form some of the short courts that at some point in Serbia knew that these decisions were being implemented, probably somewhere against the wall, as our people would say. These are those solutions that are being promoted to the 21st century by MPs who have me shocked by what a blow this is to an independent branch of government such as the judiciary. Well, then it goes on and on, and then it's threatened that many will end up in Sremska Mitrovica, probably making company for Oliver, Dragina and other senior DS officials who were prosecuted based on an independent trial and for what they did with state money and with the budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, now where they are. But I do not want to comment, nor to order judgments, nor to abolish judgments, as Mr Stefanovic did earlier, but to point to both the Serbian public and all of us MPs that such behaviour is and that such bombistic announcements of the abolition of independence and the media, eggs on RTS or the abolition of Serbia's Constitutional Court, are a step back in democratisation of our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35357	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The same explanation, I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure, because I warned Mr. Stefanovic not to talk about the agenda. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. You have the right to a replica, Mr Arsic, before that, Mr Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35358	Mr. Chairman, article 106, 107, has been broken more than once. You have rightly noticed that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken because you have warned me about keeping the topic or agenda item, however, none of the previous SNS speakers who have advertised the Rules of Procedure, you have not warned me at any time, and they have used and abused the Rules of Procedure all the time, to spite the bride and very, very thin replicas point to me. So, I don't think that's good. Here, this was one example when three great heroes jump to advertise the Rules of Procedure using lies and lies and talking about stones where there were none. I know you and the eggs see the stones, I understand that, but in this case you're wrong, as you're wrong that someone wants to abolish the Constitutional Court, as you're wrong when you say nationalization that we're going to pay compensation. You know very well what that means. It's a message that means essentially, people be careful what you do, because citizens will have to pay for it, nothing else. There's no hate, there's no big things that come to you all the time. Use the Rules of Procedure to show something that does not exist. You keep making tigers out of paper that scare the people. No, I simply ask you, Mr. Chairman, to me you have properly applied the Rules of Procedure, I think you have missed more opportunities in the last ten minutes to do the same to people on the other side, because these people simply don't know what to say, so now they're pulling out rocks and eggs and abolishing the Constitutional Court and the Goli Island, we even heard. You know, I think it's a little unserious. We're a long way from VAT, that's what I'm trying to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35359	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. I had to listen to the MPs who advertised the Rules of Procedure as I heard you, as you're now challenging someone, and you're doing the same thing, so you explain why you think the Rules of Procedure has been broken. As I understand that the MPs who commented on the violation of the Rules of Procedure have just quoted you from your presentation, so I had to listen to it. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35360	Again, Mr. Chairman, I will not ask the Assembly to declare, again item 107, and again Mr. Stefanovic, without you noticing that you did not warn him, insulted the MPs. First, because he was adhering to some of his statements. All right, that's good. The second thing he said: People's messengers from the other side. On the other side of what? What's here between us, so it's on the other side? Usually in Serbia when it is said "on the other side", it is thought on the other side of the law. I think it is an insult because an excellent lawyer, such as Mr. Stefanovic, would have to know that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final, executive and binding. As he would have to know, the Constitutional Court Act was brought in when his regime, his former regime, his colleagues from his DS, when they passed that law, and he must know that those people were the ones who chose. It's up to us to respect the institutions of this country. It's up to us to respect the laws, it's up to us to respect the courts, it's up to us to respect the decisions of these courts, and then when we like them and when we don't like them, but it's been a long time since the politicians, right from these benches, ordered both lawsuits and indictments, but also judgments. For this reformed judiciary directed by the DS and the former regime, we only got pucks, and this announcement by the Constitutional Court, cutting into constitutional court decisions and any other court, I think they're a step back in democratisation of our society and sending a very bad picture of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35361	I thank you, Mr. Granny. Before I give my word to you, Mr Arsic, the honourable MPs agree to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Replica, MP Veroljub Arsic, authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35362	Mr. Chairman, as chairman of the Finance Committee, I will address you, as I cannot speak to the Rules of Procedure Mr. Stefanovic personally, but tell him that Serbia, and he has economic and essential sovereignty, and the one you led was the Greek scenario. When it comes to stories about the IMF and its arrangement with Serbia, because we are a fundamentally and economically independent country, we did not need it, and we invited them to help just so that not some MP who cares about Serbia, said that prices are growing and not growing, said that tax revenues are falling, rather than falling, saying that the unemployment rate is growing and not growing. This is confirmed by international institutions, unlike those in February 2012, those same international institutions expelled from Serbia because they were not allowed to say how much they owed Serbia over the election campaign. They talk about how they scare all investors if they say the verdicts will fall in Strasbourg at the expense of the state, the citizens and the economy. They talked like that about the Constitution, so why didn't they fall? Well, these are the Constitutional Court judges you've chosen, so there's nothing you can object to for their work. You have no right to do that. The story of nationalization. So are we back in the '40s? What kind of nationalisation are we talking about? Are you threatening someone? I'd love to know who? Talking about heavy accounting records...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35363	Time, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35364	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. Two more sentences. We live in the 21st century. Any director of a small company, micro-enterprises, at any time and press one button can come up with that data.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35365	You must conclude the presentation, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35366	Mr. Chairman, since they're so threatening all of us, let's let the DS gentlemen go to the election in the province and the Republic right now, tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35367	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The thirty seconds you have exceeded will be taken away from the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you. (Ivan Jovanovic, from town: Replica. ) Replication of Mr Arsic's exposure to Mr Stefanovic's exposure. Why do you think you have the right to a replica, Mr. Jovanovic? (Ivan Jovanovic, from town: Replica, DS. What? (Ivan Jovanovic, from the post: Because I am an authorised representative. () Yes, but why, for what sentence? (Ivan Jovanovic, from the place: The mention of DS. ) Please, you are formally entitled if the DS is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35368	As far as the election is concerned, it's the only thing you know you're talking about, especially when you control all the media and when nothing independent can be heard, as is the Agency's business register bulletin removed, it's simply not published on the site, so nothing that doesn't correspond to the authorities and no voice from the opposition can be heard except from this pay phone occasionally. In that sense, it is clear to me that the government has lost all the strings, that the economic system is falling apart, that the financial system is falling apart, that there is only a deficit on the citizens' account, that this is all that exists, that the system is not working and that the government can only now reach the elections, because the new order of lies will cover all that incompetence that has been shown in the previous four years. I don't understand how you can comment on anyone's talk from these benches when you're not listening to what we're talking about? If any small businessman can have a key where, as you say, software, where he can display everything he had from his tax obligations, how is it possible that this same key has no Tax Administration, but is forcing that small businessman to pay for software, to pay for new employees, to pay new accounting costs? Explain to us how it is possible that everything that is the obligation of the state in this country is being brought down today to an ordinary citizen? We have an objection here, and here we want to show how much government has no regard for both citizens and businesses. That's what we tried to talk about in a civilized way. We talked about what we resented about these laws, but since you have no arguments and since it's perfectly clear what the situation is in this country, you've moved on to a well-tapped language.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35369	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. I assume you've made a lapus. This government has only been in office for a year, not four years. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Replica, please. Authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35370	Who said anything about Arsic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35371	You mentioned the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35372	Government? What does Arsic have to do with the government?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35373	You mentioned the government, the Prime Minister. Sir, an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35374	A very interesting question, only I would return it when Finance Minister Mirko Cvetkovic was, why each tax administration specifically bought software for itself and how much money was spent. Are we going to check out whose companies it was? Mr. Chairman, that's the app I've watched since 1994, but you don't expect the state to monitor analyticalally what an economic operator is doing? It's sick, it's spying already. The state is in the interest of tax obligations only, so reports are filed. You expect the finance minister to be connected to software in a legal person and control what he does, get into business secrets? That's what you're saying right now. What are you surprised at? That's what you said. Have you ever run a company, you know anything about it? Do you know how to fill out a virtual warrant? But you do know how to talk. Big problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35375	Please, Mr. Arsic, just a little respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35376	As for the election, the order of lies, let's count it in the newspaper, there are archives of how many negative articles about the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, how many negative articles about the Government of Aleksandr Vukic, to see how much independence the media is today, how much it was while you were in power. No one could say anything against Boris Tadic or Mirko Cvetkovic. Now you're talking about media darkness. You know what, election stories, no politician should be afraid of choices, and no politician should at all costs and not have to hold power. You held up power until 2012 and now you defend the interests of pensioners and employees, and while you ruled by force, you were working against the interests of these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35377	Mr. Boris Tadic is no longer your president, so that is not the basis for a word, Mr. Jovanovic. There's no mention of DS. Mr. Tonchev has the word. Since we only have five minutes to break, is that enough or will you take a break? The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35378	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow Members of Parliament, honourable Minister Vujovic, stands before us today on the agenda of amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax, which I will talk about, which will also be supported by the SPS parliamentary group, as it is one of the most important laws in the tax and economic system, on which the scope and possibility of budgetary financing of all state and constitutional competences in the course of a fiscal year depends. I, as a privateer for more than 25 years in the construction sector, as the owner of enterprises that today provide the survival of more than 100 families in Serbia, am particularly motivated to ensure sharp tax discipline in the state. You, Mr. Vujovic, as Minister of Finance, can in the IRS check that my firm regularly settles all its obligations to the state. It even happened that during the period of the biggest economic crisis and stagnation of the construction industry, we had a payment of VAT, more than 30 million dinars, and it best confirms how personally, as a privateer, as a socialist and as a national MP, I contribute to the construction of the tax system of this country. The text of the arguments received by all MPs states that these amendments to the law are being carried out in order to create more favourable conditions for business operators to continue to comply with EU rules governing the area of VAT taxation. The second reason for amending the law is to prevent possible abuses and improve VAT collection control and the obligation to draw up a VAT accounting review to be delivered with a tax application is proposed. You have proposed very good solutions and we will support this law in the voting day. Regardless of the amendments to the law, what I still see as a major problem is an unequal interpretation of the VAT law on the ground by various tax inspectors. I'm going to give you a concrete example that will probably be very interesting to you as a minister, but I'd like it not to be to think, but I'd like you, Mr. Minister, to solve this problem. Namely, tax control at the Civil Land Directorate in Surdulica, which was carried out in March 2009, confirmed that this authority is not in the VAT system because it is in Article 9. The VAT law stipulates that legal persons established by the Act of Local Self-Government are not VAT bonds in order to carry out transactions in the jurisdiction of the State Administration and local self-government. After that, in July of this year, field tax control was re-run in the Directorate and it is now established that the VAT debtor's Directorate, although in the last six years this company has been operating in the same way, is performing the same tasks and competencies and is applying the same laws. The Directorate for Building Land in Surdulica does not provide services and does not sell goods on the market, does not perform a communal activity for end-users, but performs that activity of general interest which is why the company is founded and financed by the budget of the municipality of Surdulica. The tax inspector argues that the Directorate is obliged to pay VAT on the revenue received from the Republic under the contract on the co-financing of Vlasina as the area of exceptional forms, as well as the VAT on the revenue obtained on the basis of the non-payment of compensation for the use of the Vlasina area. No one escapes from paying the VAT into the state budget, but the interpretation of the law is contrary to Article 9. VAT law, Article 70. Nature Protection Act and Article 14. The law on the budgetary system, which is prescribed to be treated as public revenue, and thus non-tax revenue. That is why it is necessary for the Ministry of Finance to be actively involved in solving this problem, because such a strange change in the opinion of tax inspectors occurred suddenly six years later on the basis of applications and some incurable individuals who are in every way trying to degrade everything that is good in Surdulica. If you, Minister Vujović, as a world finance expert, confirm today that income from the Republic's budget and the non-tax revenue of the Directorate on the basis of the fees charged are subject to the obligation to pay VAT, as the Tax Administration of Vranje claims, then such interpretation should have been introduced today into these amendments and additions to the VAT Act and that such a rule is applied to all directives in Serbia, not only in Surdulica. I'm going to give you another principled interpretation of the tax inspectors' laws, and then, since I don't have much time, I'm going to make a suggestion. Just now, one of my colleagues said we should be helping sports. We're at a sports club, like the Worker football club, had three checks. The Nish tax police found that the football worker didn't pay the tax six million, one field control found three million, the other found two million, I don't know how much he's going to find the fourth now, etc. But this is the problem, that two people ended up in prison because various tax inspectors interpreted the law and regulations differently. I think, personally, that in practice, we need to change some solutions. For example, professional control practice should be ensured and to avoid different interpretations of the laws by taxpayers, it would be good for the ministry to organise the permanent training of law enforcement inspectors, and an increase in the number of inspectors would be necessary, as frequent controls would be done and would be a greater coverage of taxpayers. I'll give you an example. We in the Pcinj County sometimes wait 20 days so they can find some free inspector to come to a company that is looking for VAT returns, and then we wait for 10 days of solutions, and then they tell us that all the solutions are going to Belgrade for signature. Do you know how long it's been waiting for the businessmen to get their VAT refund? I'll tell you what, I've heard it from my colleagues from both the position and the opposition, about paying for a loan pen. Mr. Minister, you need to check, the school's implementation and development unit, which was formed at the Ministry of Education, got a loan a few years ago, 10 businessmen suing the ministry for unpaid bills for executed facilities in different schools. Now the court will make a decision to pay it out of the budget, and there's money in the unit that we got from the loan and on which we pay the penalty. I was talking about you and your expertise and qualifications when we chose you as minister and I still think you're doing a great job. That's why I brought up these problems. I hope you get rid of them, just like you've done so far. I thank and say that the SPS and all MPs in voting day will support all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35379	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35380	We have to get started, the minister will probably see us start, so he'll hurry. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Does anyone from the Democratic Party change it? (No) The word of the messenger of the people is Kovačević Goran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35381	Ladies and gentlemen, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax certainly represents one of the economic laws that we at least discussed. The debate in parliament certainly says that it is the harmonisation of the VAT law with a number of directives in the EU that regulate this area. When we went on screening chapter 16 – taxes, regarding EU accession, then we realized that our law on value added tax is different from the laws applicable to the EU. Therefore, the amendment and addition of the Value Added Tax Act is purely technical and is concerning the harmonisation of the law, and the value added tax is system law and is not, at this point, changing. It was set about ten years ago and the value added tax itself is the highest tax income that exists in the Republic of Serbia. If you look at the 2015 budget, the state of Serbia has planned revenue based on value added tax of 390 billion dinars. Somewhere in mid-2015, we knew that VAT-based incomes on the economic classification of 7.1.4.1 were higher than we planned. How? On the basis of the VAT originating from the country, and on the basis of VAT originating from imports. If you charge 43.26% of total budget revenues in one country based on value added tax, then it's certainly a law that you have to take care of. We were able to hear different political interpretations in the principle debate today. First of all, today it wasn't about the Law that's on the agenda, but about the different macroeconomic parameters that can be presented in a different way, but the essence is one of the people in power, the people who run the government must understand that many in Serbia have not learned about such macroeconomic parameters. It is hard to understand that Serbia today has a deficit of 1.17, that the social gross product, as we said, Mr. Minister, is approximately 6-7 months ago already close to 1%, that inflation is never lower. You can't blame them for why they don't understand it, because they never had a chance to understand it. We functioned in an environment where regular inflation was ten percent, social gross product almost didn't grow, and what we can agree on is indisputable that the state of Serbia is expensive. If you only have 3% interest in social gross product in 2015, then you have to understand that for so much of our budget revenue, we have to make a bigger GDP intervention. The problem of the proposed amendments to the law are certainly changes that are of a technical nature, but at the same time these changes also talk about the perceived shortcomings, inconsistencies, which occurred in the 10-year application of value added tax. A significant and only perhaps key newspaper is the introduction of a foreign person who does not have a seat, or who does not have a residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so that through the tax authority he can enter into the value added tax system. Usually, value added tax is understood as a liability. At the same time, it also implies certain rights. So it's a complex matter that doesn't just mean the system of giving, but also the system of vomiting, so foreign persons for companies, that part of the company that owns and operates in Serbia, it's certainly normal to be in the value added tax system. If you move forward, from Article 11, practically, there are only technical changes in function, clarifications of the functioning of value added tax. In today's debate, we didn't talk about subsidies. This is Article 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on value added tax, i.e. Article 17 of the Code of origin on value added tax. For the first time, it is explicitly interpreted that all subsidies, i.e. the whole transfer, resulting from the turnover of goods and services, are in fact tax bases, except in the case where the subsidy is granted by the State. This implies that an economic policy based on subsidies can function more efficiently and betrayed than it has ever been. I think he's a member of 13. The bill is one of the essentials, because this member actually led to the full commercial injustice that existed on that market, which was caused, above all, by tax inequalities. It's two categories, first of all the accommodations and transportation. So, at the accommodations, it was practically amazing that you had the same type of services that were provided by different taxpayers, where the tax rate was different. This created tax indemnity, which directly reflected the competitive capacity of taxpayers on the market, who provided the same type of services. We are today equating all taxpayers and saying that, regardless of whether it is hotels, hostels, hunting homes, all those who provide catering services, the tax rate is special and 10%, respectively. It's not a general rate like we had 20 or 10. This will allow all those providing accommodation services to adapt practically their price depending on their competitive capacity, and the price and the amount of tax they pay will not be the reason for market disunity. Why is it important when you talk about transportation? There we had two groups, where we had a tax rate of 10% in urban and suburban transport, and in urban and international transport, we also had an important category of tax rate of 20%. This did not lead to the tax indemnity of taxpayers, but certainly means that the tax rate will be lower. Today, except in rare cases, we could hear that the tax burden at the Serbian state level will be higher. These are all decisions, the whole law, essentially means a reduction in value added tax. There are no members of the law, there is no economic category that comes into the category that value added tax is higher. In Article 19, there was also a debate, talking about categories of deductible items, where there is a change in deductible items. One significant part of the deductible items that have not been on those categories so far, which means compliance with EU laws, is equipment that serves to equip the business space, and it is not such a small category. The alignment of these categories certainly implies a different position than the current situation, but this situation will also benefit everyone. I'm happy because it precisely defines how the team works. It is precisely taxing what is meant by representation, and that is important because we thus define the possibility of abuse in deductible items. When we talk about a new category – a review of VAT accounts, I can agree to some of the discussions that say it is a new category. She is new. It is in line with EU rules. They're right, everything that's already been given should be in the IRS. As a MP, I have no idea that I should defend a single institution in the state of Serbia, which I personally think is not working properly. The ruling party, Minister Vujovic has shown countless times over the past year by making difficult decisions, heavy laws that he has primarily tried to change the system of institutions that have misfunctioned there for decades. Tax administration is an indisputable thing that needs to survive the changes. The unity of tax law is the essence of good tax law. The clarity that anyone can understand how it works is security in tax revenues. Not everyone who deals with different types of work, from small taxpayers to agricultural households, who are also VAT bonds, trained, are taught to be tax experts. A vague interpretation creates a problem that is defined as a reduction either in the budget or consequences for the taxpayer. Another important thing is the unity of application of principles and laws that function. If you don't have that unity, then you have different actions in the same cases, which all leads to a different market position, and that's the point. The tax policy implemented by the state of Serbia, for the end, has a different market position for individual companies, if they have different tax treatment by the state. That's why this law that we are proposing today, which we all agree on more, implies, first of all, a few things, removes ambiguity, becomes clearer and, of course, that we all expect Mr Vujovic to come out very quickly with a more comprehensive system of functioning, both the tax administration and the tax system. My personal commitment, to the end, Mr. Minister, is that we must change a system that does not work, that it must be better, that is what the mission and idea are entrusted to us by the citizens of Serbia. We have to keep, indisputable labour taxes and general consumption taxes, like VAT, but I think it's time we start thinking about more generous property taxes and profit taxes. The proposal to amend and supplement the Tax Act on Additional Value is certainly a fully transparently clear law that leads to a reduction in tax revenues, because tax rates will be less and that is the second phase we talked about, when we come to a situation that we can stabilise budget revenues and that we can respond to IMF requirements. These requirements stem from our obligations and from the credit obligations that exist, this is the next step to, indeed, 46.7% of the state of Serbia taking from the social gross product in the next period being smaller.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35382	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Have Alexander Jovic get ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35383	I thank the presidents of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers and respected citizens, above all when we talk about amendments to the VAT Act, on the one hand, it is about harmonising with EU regulations and allegedly strengthening control by the Tax Administration, which, as you have told us today, will lead to a reduction in various abuses. This law will have an impact, primarily on Serbia's economy and that is what, as well as the minister, must be clear. One of the most interesting figures from the mentioned, as of today, the Business Registers Agency's newsletter, was a very funny situation, that this bulletin was first published on the Agency for Business Registers, and was then quickly withdrawn. Obviously, by asking the government's opinion, are these figures true, are these figures allowed to go public at all, so that citizens can see a scandalous situation in the Serbian economy? What is doubtless, at least during a certain period of time, is to increase the loss of the economy of nearly 550 billion in last year,478 billion in 2013. Profits that have achieved successful companies are smaller last year than in 2013. From a series of other data that have disappeared from the Agency's Business Registers site, this suggests that we have an obvious problem, not only can citizens not face scandalous data, but we have an obvious problem called asphyxiation of the Serbian economy and in times of crisis Serbia has not responded to the need over the past few years, as these data do about it. The number of employees in Serbia's largest economic players is constantly dropping. These are not measures that will help these big players, who are also the biggest employers in Serbia. They're going to shut down these companies, the economy and these companies. They will be imposed on them new imposes, new administrative fees will be imposed on them, all in order to better control and prevent abuses such as your original explanation. This proposal lowers the tax rate for cross-city transport, for example, and this is one of the really good things, tourist accommodation as well. This should also be supported, but these are essential cosmetic changes that will primarily affect the asphyxiation of those players who are the largest employers in Serbia, with the largest number of private sector workers working. On the one hand, we are suffocating Serbia's economy, and on the other hand you provide enormous incentives for privileged investors in Serbia. That thing with each other can't get any better. With all that stuff, for example, if we count on the cost of the Serbian side of a new project that is set as a cornerstone on Sunday and we count the land of a 700m-euro Sava amphitheatre, if we include 130m loans and if we count what Serbia guarantees to a joint venture that will also raise one loan, it turns out to be 880m euros. When you share with the number of workers who will get a job there, you get a boost per job of a million and 760,000 euros. Then how can someone get everything, and the entire Serbian economy can't get anything at all? Here, in the very context of the bill's proposal, we are talking about the construction industry, in particular, the UAE investor will receive a million and 760 thousand euros per an open new job in Serbia. Is that normal? It's not. Is that in Serbia's interest? It's not. So, with a series of things you've said since the beginning of today's session, your explanation obviously isn't enough to convince anyone that this is about system-solving problems like this. We also have a loan agreement, 18m euros to adapt the prisons in Panchev. We will have, as you know by the contract your government signed 130m euros when it comes to "Belgrade on Water", and credits will also be paid by Serbian citizens. Ten billion in debt has been increased. The total pension savings have been dropped for some investor who is privileged in Serbia, who the Government of the Republic of Serbia has said – yes, he is a strategic partner, regardless of having a registered firm in Abu Dhabi with zero dirhams, for a period of up to one year. It's the job of the century and it's the momentum of the Serbian economy and the construction industry. How are you going to explain this to the citizens, and nonstop when this scandalous topic comes out in public, you always have some bad relations with Croatia, with Hungary, with countries in the region, so it covers this thing. Then you think someone will forget, but we don't understand how some pensioners tomorrow who have earned their pensions, who have paid some taxes and contributed their whole lives, will explain to them that you have constitutionally or unconstitutionally reduced their pensions, regardless of the Constitutional Court's decision. How are you going to explain to them where their money was spent and what it was spent on? An Arab investor, so-called "Belgrade on the Water", at the pub, at the shopping mall, at the hotel, on everything the foundation stone is laid for the day after tomorrow. For this reason, not only will we, as opposition MPs, be reluctant and not only can we not support this way of suffocating the Serbian economy on the one hand and, on the other hand, enabling privileged friends, grant investors for each open job. In our country, we haven't finished half of the things they faced that those businessmen who are the biggest employers in Serbia and small and medium-sized enterprises, but also some new companies. Some new firms that dared to go to the Serbian market, not to leave Serbia, but to start a business in our country. But in a Serbian market that is uneven and that allows investors who are your friends everything, and which allows them new charges and administrative fees. That the goal is better control, I fully agree with that, but better control when you level your friends with the economy of Serbia. So, then better control and then tax administration to do its job better, but we can't here on the very basis that we have an unfair system, and then you cosmetic charms on that facade and you say, well, now a little tax administration is going to have better powers, new powers, and a bigger bureaucracy, and then new administrative fees, so we're going to get it all in order. Then some citizens there or some businessmen look at this one. "Belgrade on Water" and they say – well, wait a minute, why didn't we get this much incentive from the state once to build something in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35384	Thank you. Your time has passed. Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: They have long gone by. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35385	Our time is just coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35386	Be kind enough to turn off the microphone. Thank you. The word is Alexander Jovicic, and let Vladimir Marinkovic prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35387	Thank you, Your Honor. Apparently, the camera was afraid of this announcement that our time was just coming, so something stopped working, but good. In today's laws, we can note that Serbia continues the path of reform and wants to establish a system that will primarily bring legal flows in all areas of our society, and even in the part where we talk about tourism, when we talk about hotels, motels, restaurants, etc., where a certain VAT is reduced from 20% to 10%, but everyone will have to pay it. Imagine, then, when everyone pays VAT both in cafes and restaurants and in all other facilities, VAT could always be slightly smaller. As if in bus transport, we could all pay the ticket, we could cut the price of the ticket, because we would go to quantity and have higher incomes. However, it is up to us to work on this in the next period, to establish a system that everyone will respect, and to enable the best possible conditions not to be expensive and that everyone can pay. You know, it's hard when someone in Serbia, who started to stand up after so many years, says the "Belgrade on Water" project brings nothing good to Serbia and that it will certainly be a robbery of the century and how they have all said in the last days. You know, it's sad when someone says in Serbia -- we'll fight with all our strength to prevent Belgrade's development and prevent the "Belgrade on Water" project. I asked the question today in the hall in front of the press - and what forces, gentlemen? When you say, "all forces", you didn't limit yourself, so you said -- democratic forces, political powers or anything else. Why are you using a term of force for something that is good and something that brings profit to the Republic of Serbia, something that that part of Belgrade that you've been watching, which has been abandoned, which has left us 50 wrecks from ships, which has left us snakes and everything else, how is it possible that you're inviting people to the streets today because someone wants to clean it up, build something and make some money? I've been thinking in the nights about what caused the former regime's representatives to obstruct this project. Well, I think that one MP I haven't seen in days in the Assembly, one former army minister, most likely bothers him that he won't be able to build a pasture or I don't know what to do in this move where "Belgrade on Water" will be built, from his 120-30 thousand dinar ministerial salary, will not be able to conduct a racket and carry money to other officials of the former regime. There is a crucial difference between SNS and all other parties that have been in power since 2000. That's what I want to tell the citizens. I just want to explain one thing. When you talk about a loan to be raised for the "Belgrade on Water", so don't, people, please deceive the public. Of these 130m euros, 90m euros go to rebuild our railway infrastructure. I'd like to inform the representatives of the former regime that we must have a 21st-century railway, because you obviously left it to us from the 16th or 17th centuries, 18th centuries. Well, there's a big difference. We want to invest regardless of the project, whether it is "Belgrade on water" or any other, we want to raise our infrastructure, have good communities, have railways, have everything that is necessary and will follow our system reforms in terms of raising the economy. You have to have something to offer to get someone to come here and invest a single dinar, to drive the goods, to transport the goods. Of course, provided someone doesn't shut you down or it doesn't happen, I don't know what kind of miracle. It's a shame, once again to say, the SNS while in opposition was making protests, we were making protests that supported 100,000 people in front of this house or someone else, in front of the City Assembly, it doesn't matter where they were, but we were making protests because nothing was being built. Nothing was built in Serbia and nothing was done. Of course, there's never been an incident. Today we have a situation which is a paradox in our society, which is that representatives of the former regime are making protests and calling on the streets because something is being built and doing something. That's really funny. Watch what kind of politics that is. Who will support this policy in our public? I ask a logical question – people, do you need help in policymaking? Talk to someone, please. To take people to the street because something's being built and someone's investing three and a half billion in the whole project phase until the end? It's just to cross over, nothing more, and watch and say – what's going on in Serbia? Then, the current MP, a representative of the former regime, who whenever I speak suddenly comes out of the hall, says – you have bad relations with Croatia. Gentlemen, what bad relations do we have with Croatia? Did Serbia in any way contribute to this situation and close the border between Serbia and Croatia? You are all aware of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done it, most likely because of a pre-election campaign in their country, wanting to attract votes based on euphoria and some emotions, but it will cost and it will reduce income from the economy both sides. As you can see, Serbia is reacting to cold heads, thanks to the prime minister who is taking good care of our foreign policy. But if we went back to the past and it was us, for example. In 2007 or 2008, a situation like this was encountered, where the borders between Serbia and Croatia, of course on the Croatian side, were unilaterally closed, I know what the DS would have been. They would have done a better press conference, or they would have answered the word in this House and said, "I'm sorry you've closed our border and our goods are failing, I'm sorry that Serbian trucks can't cross the border." We listened to those apologies. We don't need to apologize to anyone, but how do we know to admit a mistake if we've made it? However, in this relationship, as you can see, we are not guilty here. You know that we have led a responsible policy in the last two years, a policy of reconciliation in the region with all our neighbours, and we want that policy to continue. You've seen and you're aware of the fact that all international factors have praised such a responsible policy, because we think it's the only right path. We've made the wrong path, and maybe we've made the wrong choices in the past, but we have no right to do it anymore. As a summary of my exposure, I can only say one thing. On the one hand, you didn't build anything in Serbia or build and put it in your pockets, like the bridge on Ada that I mentioned two years ago, but you're making protests. On the other hand, you attack Serbia for introducing countermeasures that are much lighter than those on the other side, and you would apologize and our economy would suffer. We won't accept that. Why does Mr Bozovic, who came out, for example, not invite citizens of Serbia to go protest outside the Tis Automotive Factory, which is open in Senta, where 300 people are employed? Why does Mr Bozovic not invite citizens to protest outside the "EverRest Production" factory in Ruma, which opened two or three months ago, which also employs 300 people? This is only the first phase, because in the next year, it's going to be in one factory and another, 500 more people. Why don't you go and protest in front of those factories? So you've brought 400 companies to ruin, destroyed every possible privatisation in Serbia. You left us a meadow at the Sava amphitheater, and a few hundred companies that worked and somehow stood on their feet you cut, sold and put money in their pockets. Now you say - someone's robbing the meadow. Well, how are you not ashamed? I really can't figure out that at all levels of our country, you've had every possibility, both in the Republic and in the province and in the city level, to make something out of our country. You've destroyed everything you've touched in the Republic, all the public enterprises you've sold, or the vast majority, in the province you've destroyed, because there's not a single selfie of the province's prime minister who's not half-naked on one of the beaches and we're asking him to do only one selfie in his cabinet and send us to some working atmosphere where he's doing something for the citizens of Serbia and the people of the province. When we talk about Belgrade, there were cruel professionals. There you knew to destroy Belgrade to that extent that we had a 21% deficit, which is a historic deficit in Belgrade. I repeat, 21% deficit. Well, there, people, you have to be great experts to do it. It's not that easy to do. Today there is a deficit in Belgrade, and I want to inform the citizens of Belgrade, the deficit in Belgrade is 9%, unlike the 21% left by the party of the former regime. Our goal next year is that the deficit is 5%, and in 2017 we no longer have the deficit, to move to surplus, which is your foreign word. You couldn't read or see it anywhere, but as you can see, there is a surplus in public enterprises in Belgrade today. When you talk about Belgrade, and the president of the City Committee of the Democratic Party that ran out of the O.R., that public enterprises are not doing well, gentlemen, you can make sure they're in surplus. You also knew how to destroy the Parking Service, which is enough to draw two lines with paint and take a profit. You also knew how to ruin it, where there was no cost and you were down. Today and those companies that have been hard to do in your time, such as "City Cleanness", such as "Belgrade Road" and others, are slowly coming out of those debts you left us and will most likely make a surplus in the coming years that we will give to those to whom this money belongs, which are citizens of Belgrade and citizens of Serbia. We're going to finance projects and develop our capital because you've been destroying it a lot. Well, there's a big difference. At the very end, I want to invite all citizens of Serbia, all citizens of Belgrade, if, of course, they do, I will be there because I expected it long and believed it would happen, and that is the cornerstone when we talk about "Belgrade on Water". Come on, people, let's celebrate it because finally Belgrade is on its way up, finally no one is robbing Belgrade anymore, finally Belgrade will be the metropolis it deserves to be in the 21st century, finally we won't have any more corrupt officials who have destroyed all public enterprises, but we will have a city that we will be able to be proud of and who we will be able to present to everyone. Most importantly, because of such buildings, someone will come to Serbia and leave the money. We want to deal with the economy. We want to deal with profits, for our citizens and for our country. I leave you gentlemen to call on the Ukrainian script, but be assured, it won't come to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35388	Ambassador Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35389	It's a sad Belgrade that you run, but practice, it's good. I think you have to learn before that that, as you said, in the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries, the railways didn't exist, it existed in the 19th century. So, you got a little carried away in those centuries you mentioned. The second thing, what kind of public enterprise was sold earlier? Let's hear it. I'm very interested to hear what public enterprise was sold during those previous authorities, whoever was in power. Let's just hear it. What have we sold, and what won't you do with your authority? Let's hear it. You're the government that wants to sell public enterprises, boasts of it, gets support from the world for that, both EPS and Telecom and Airport, everything you're about to sell. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: "Telecom" is not a public enterprise, neither is the EPS. All right, you guys get it. You get it, you get it, you get it, you get it, you get it, you get it, you get it, you get it, you get it, you get it, you get it, you get it, you get it, I'm telling you, these things can be mentioned this way and you can talk about whatever you want and you can talk about a deficit that is such that it's going to go into surplus because nobody knows what a surplus is in this country. Do you know what will be left of that surplus? See what Belgrade looks like? Did he ever have worse city power? Has he ever been dirtier and more messy than he is now? No one is calling for violence and no one is calling for force, but they are calling on citizens to demonstrate their protest, to underline, to protest, because of a lawless criminogenic job that you are violating and deregating the Serbian state's legal system. That's all. So you speak with the power of argument, if you have them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35390	Thank you, MP. Time. National MP Alexander Jovicic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35391	Thank you, Your Honor. You know how, the party of the previous speaker acts just as it was at a time when railways were to be built in Serbia, I highly respect Mr. Pasic, but he was against the same railway, today you are acting as at the time perhaps the Radical Party which is against a major project such as "Belgrade on Water". Time will show that this project is something that certainly brought the future to our country. But when you talk about the companies you sold, well, you sold everything that could have been robbed. You left us the bodies of the economy. You left Mr. Vujovic with hundreds of companies that no one will buy. Where you could have taken a Kajmak, where you could have said a word or a sentence: “Where am I? “ Where are we? “ you did it. You left us nothing. What did you leave us? See how privatisations are conducted today. You would have given it to Jellyzar a long time ago, and then you gave it to him, and then he came back, and so forth. Ping-pong playing. We do not go into situations that are risky and that can bring harm to our people, and that is where we differ. We could make a mistake, but we'll never rob, and you robbed. As Mr. Bozovic said, let's stop the robbery by force. Well, you've been robbing Serbia with your own strength. With all your strength, you robbed Serbia. We'll never let you do that again. Serbian citizens will not allow you, but not by force, but by pencil. Not by force. You're telling us about the privatisations. So could any privatisation in Serbia have been without saying: "Where am I? “ Where are we? “? ” Either you or your tycoons you created were involved. You've created dozens of them. We created, so now you're washing off them. Don't, please, change the thesis.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35392	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35393	"Belgrade on Water" is something that guarantees both Belgrade and Serbia only profit, but to citizens, not, as you are used to, officials or others.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35394	Thank you, MP. First things first. Here you go, Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of our 107th Rules of Procedure has been injured. Besides, of course, in politics you have to have a little bit of potential, and sometimes you love different European leaders who you admit your role models are a little Greek, they're a little Cuban, so they're British, you know, you have to have a little bit of legal knowledge. I'm surprised that Mr. Stefanovic doesn't know that Telecom is not a public enterprise, that Elektroprivreda Srbija is not a public enterprise. What his esteemed colleague and shadow minister would say, I don't know whether for defence or for other matters, Mrs Gordana Komic, that's what she told me when she chaired the National Assembly's sessions, I direct Mr Stefanovic, in addition to reading books about Čevar, Cyprus and British Labourists, to take a bit of, for example, the Law on Economic Society and to take the Law on Public Enterprises and to carry out activities of general interest. For example, in the Business Society Act, for example, it will read all forms of business in Serbia and then see that Telecom and Elektroprivreda Serbia, which it spoke of and which it dives in crocodile tears, are not public enterprises but fall under the provisions of the Business Society Act. So, Elektroprivreda Srbija and Telecom are companies, and they are not public enterprises. And by the way, these public enterprises that we have left, the Democratic Party has ruined to the point that the simple situation in these public enterprises cannot be worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35396	Time, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35397	I'm done. The Serbian government was forced to take difficult and painful measures to preserve what...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35398	I have to interrupt you, for one reason, that by Article 103, so other than saying that article 107, injured Rules of Procedure, everything else was replicable. I have to take away the MP's group for two minutes. There's no reason to be surprised. You'll take the stenogram yourself. You used that time as a replica, and there was no basis for replication. Let's move on. You? (Borislav, Stefanovic, from town: Replica? To whom exactly? The circle of replicas has been completed, because I think we've talked a lot off the subject we've called in. (Borislav, Stefanovic, from the post: Then give me the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35399	Articles 106 and 107. President, in the end, you've waited almost three minutes for the presentation of the previous speaker to be completed, to determine this...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35400	Two minutes and six seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35401	Two minutes and seven seconds. Two minutes and two seconds, it doesn't matter. Like it doesn't matter if the law is called about companies or public enterprises, if you sell state property. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: These are two different laws. And it's a good thing you told me that, because that's how you esculating yourself from the responsibility of selling people's property. And what books I'm reading, you'll just see.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35402	MP, you didn't get a line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35403	I asked the presidents nicely to tell me the honourable MPs, who we are public enterprises, so they didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35404	It's all nice, it's nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but we're not making a circus out of parliament. Two minutes less than an authorised representative. Thank you. Two minutes less than authorized since the group's already wasted their time. Let's move on. Please, the word is Vladimir Marinkovic, and let Susana Spasojevic be prepared. We're back on the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35405	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have planned today to talk about the economic environment and everything that will contribute to the amendments and additions of the Value Added Tax Act, but I cannot look back at the recent past and rely on the speech of my esteemed colleague, Alexander Jovicic, who spoke about the railways, which spoke about public enterprises, about state-owned companies. And yes, it is true that there were about 1881 and 1882, the average speed of the train was 42 km per hour, that it was 48 or 49 today, and it was a abandoned railway, and it was left "The Iron" in 2012, and it was left "Resavica" and miners without pay for 10, 11 and 12 months, "JAT Airways" and many other companies. But I would like to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, that the same JAT Airways that recorded 2009, 2010, 2011, losses of over 50m euros per year, if at the same time it shared the 13th salaries, jubilee awards and acted as a drunken millionaire, is today a partner, today our state and airline partner with, in 2014, the world's best airline, which is Etyhad. Today, we have a contract on professional management and the possibility of iron working for us in the coming period in full capacity and what is most important for my party, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, is that those five and a half thousand people who worked in the "Gelezara" keep their jobs and keep their salaries and the possibility to continue to realise their existence and the existence of their families in the coming long term. Only those two examples can be quite enough when you want to compare what someone did in just about a year and four months and what was left to be done in the previous period. As a People's MP, I am proud to have Mazdar in our country today, which is in our country "Etihad", "Avra Faved" that invests in agriculture and, of course, that the level of agricultural production through the introduction of new technologies, through the introduction of new knowledge, will raise to a much higher level, and thus raise the level of imports, multiplely. Are these not sufficient arguments, are they not arguments for anyone who has one rational approach to politics, whether it belongs to an opposition or to a positional party, and that they are congratulating themselves precisely to those who are in charge and who are leading the state policy, and especially economic policy in this country? When it comes to amending and supplementing the law -- a direct positive contribution to speeding up the business environment. A few days ago, the prime minister opened it, had the investment days of Belgrade. Over 300 investors from different parts of the world. Yesterday the first contract was made, 60 projects from the city of Belgrade, are they coming because the environment is bad? Are they coming because our macroeconomic situation is bad and unstable? What are we, a politically unstable country? No, I don't. They come because we are a dynamic country, which has a clear economic and economic development strategy, which has stabilised its public finances and is in the main focus of attracting as many domestic and foreign investors as possible. We are here in the National Assembly, and as we work hard, we are doing a lot of work, so that we can contribute to creating the best possible investment environment in our country through good legislation. Why? Because we have all the conditions, we have all the potential to become the main economic leader in this region. Serbia also has human potential, has people, has material resources, has natural resources, and this government of the Republic of Serbia and parliament is working hard to make all these resources work at full capacity and to make them benefit primarily the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also the economy of the Republic of Serbia. What do changes and additions of the Value Added Tax Act mean for tourism? There are over 25,000 people working in the hotel industry alone. Almost a similar number of people work in an industry that involves hostels, which includes ethno-sela, which includes so-called "the". headquarters for accommodation or that business that many citizens of the Republic of Serbia are dealing with today, which is the issue of rooms. And for them, the value added tax was 20% and one large majority had no economic motive to be reported. Now that this is reduced, now that it will be 10% equal to all other hotels and facilities, in my opinion not as a folk MP, which is a layman for tourism and tourism industry, but a meeting of hotelers and caterers who gather the most valuable hotels, caterers and people who deal with tourism in our country will lead to 90% of them crossing from the gray zone into normal business. It is precisely the result and it will be the result of an unspeakable and unspeakable fight against the gray economy and it will be an opportunity for those who want to deal with the hotel industry, those who want to deal with and develop their own private initiatives and business ideas in that area of the economy, that they can work harder, that they can earn what is most important to us, that they can hire new people. This is one simple explained essence when it comes to changing and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value, so in this way we will return to the regular business zone one large number of people, one large number of these companies will apply, pay taxes, pay taxes, pay profit taxes, and influence that our country's gross domestic product is bigger and that the number of employees in our country is bigger and what is another additional, very, very important positive impulse of all this is that they will motivate others to invest in this kind of business. Serbia is a rapidly developing country, Serbia is a country where we have more and more investors on a daily basis. Can you imagine when this “Belgrade on Water” starts to be built on Sunday, when two towers are erected, when the hotel, the mall, the marina is built, when the construction industry is activated, how much the hotel industries, the caterers, all those industries that, of course, this aspect of development has a multiplier very positive effect. In this way we want to invite and motivate all those who want to invest in tourism which is one of the main development branches in the future long term in our country to invest in tourism. For the first time in 2015, we will have more than a billion euros from tourism by all forecasts. We can do more, we can do better, we need an even better environment, we need an even bigger discharge of the economy. This is going in that direction, and therefore the SDPS will support the amendments and additions of this law in a warm manner and will vote in the voting day for all these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35406	Thank you. I don't see a letter from Susan Spasojevic. She's not here. Then Aleksandra Tomic, and let Zoran Antic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35407	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today we have a set of financial laws on which there is not so much to say in terms of talking about Serbia's future as these strategic products my previous colleague has elaborated. But there is much to say, in line with economic reforms, we are essentially getting precisely defined positions when it comes to Serbia's budget and when it comes to budgets, that is, accounts of companies that are in the Serbian market at all. What does that mean? This means that, by amending and supplementing the VAT Act, we today essentially vote on equating certain rates of tax when it comes to catering facilities and we have had the opportunity to hear it. I will tell you that even as the Committee on Economy will vote in the next week on a new tourism law, which will, of course, work out the entire area in detail. But what is important and what the minister stressed is that a component of practically all VAT applications will have a certain VAT structure that will make it much easier for the tax administration and therefore for the work, that is, the revenues that Serbia's budget achieves. This is that on the basis of this application, the methodological tax administration will be able to see what the future risks assessment is, which are the possibility that certain economic operators fail when it comes to VAT collection, when they are really doing it consciously, when they are doing it unconsciously, but also that part, given that we have a new set of laws that we have adopted, such as the Energy Act, some obligations that were previously created, such as those dealing with the production of electricity and those dealing with distribution, we abolish unnecessary costs that are incurred in invoices. An example works, one Kolubara if it produces electricity for its needs as part of a company that deals at all in the integral part of the EPS, then simply those needs of VAT invoices here will be left behind because they really don't need to make a big consumption that doesn't belong to it. So this, essentially, changes and additions and the Ministry of Finance wants to facilitate the system of functioning and foreclosure and public enterprises themselves, as well as all market participants, means all private-owned business entities. What's important is that for the first time, foreign companies are introduced into the VAT system and that is defined so-called. "tax proxies" that can practically be done for a foreign person all of these actions that may have been unknown so far because foreign investors when they come, they have to adapt to the way the countries in which they practically invest their capital. But this path of adaptation is sometimes very long, and that is why foreign investors are most often given up, this way opens the possibility that simply foreign investors, not only based on all the laws we have adopted so far, the Labour Act, the Law on privatisation, bankruptcy, the Law on Planning and Construction, but also these laws, which represent a set of financial laws, are in line with these EU directives and regulations, and thus becomes a recognizable market in that part when certain projects are implemented. It is very important to say that such a proposal prevents any possible abuse of all those who have just had a habit so far, and this has always been about domestic capital owners, somewhere to view the state as something that needs to be avoided in paying their obligations. With these fundamental changes and additions, we come to the conclusion that we will have a very real picture on the market in general when it comes to budget revenues. What is important is to say that by changing and supplementing the Republic tax, for the first time now we have essentially united and precisely defined conditions when paying republican taxes. It is perfectly logical that the Ministry of Finance also had to wait for a certain period for all ministries that had certain obligations to issue consent and at all which were able to charge certain republican taxes to have their whole, as I say, list by which they are obliged to define those republican taxes. With this proposal for changes and additions for the first time, we now have both the Ministry of Construction and the Ministry of Construction with their proposal and the Ministry of Energy and Mining, but also the Ministry of Science and Education, which with precisely defined technology and when they simply pay Serbian citizens a republican tax, they know what they are paying it for. So far, according to certain methodologies, it's always been kind of aggregated. Every time you come to the counter, you never know what you're really paying for. It is now precisely defined by this law if certain travel documents are involved, when it comes to auto-schools, when users of such services have certain obligations, if it is a particular ID when it comes to the work of security and then you have an obligation, let's say, to pay certain republican fees. This is what essentially shows that it is not only the problem of one ministry, but administrative fees are indeed the problem of the Ministry of Finance, which is precisely the defined nomenclature and classification of republican taxis must exist. What's very interesting is that we now have precise definitions, when it comes to the Ministry of Construction and when it comes to different types of consent and to the development of certain laboratories, projects, consent, so we have that list exactly. What does this amendment and addition of the Tax Law show us? In addition, it shows one transparency and shows stability in Serbia's budget's revenues. Finally, when we talk about amendments and additions to the Mortgage Act, it should be said that this proposal came from a practically constitutional court decision and a proposal to replace the term "legality" with the term "fineness" and as such shows that we must also coordinate the legal and economic frameworks of the functioning of everyone on the capital market, so that both creditors and debtors and that this is essentially a compromise, where the role of all in this functioning of the mortgage process must have a certain form of protection, so that citizens of Serbia at any time, when they become either debtors or those who are lenders or holders of mortgages, know what awaits them. This is the predictability of business and predictability in general in the functioning of the capital market, which was very important for all of us together, and in particular gives one signal to investors to come to a stable market. Finally, this proposal, relating to today's agenda, on the loan agreement of the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, shows that this is essentially one agreement that has been launched since 2012 and has been given practically as an idea. It was the least spoken of now, but it should be said that it refers to the construction of prisons in Pancheva and Sremska Mitrovica. It shows that there is trust in government and the Republic of Serbia by international financial institutions, especially when it comes to the establishment of security in both the justice system and the system of what the state of Serbia is. This is what shows that in the future such projects, such agreements will always be supported not only by the government of the Republic of Serbia, but also by parliament. But it is obvious that international financial institutions, when they have a certain kind of stability, have no problem cooperating. This has been shown now and when we talk about this foreign policy and policy in the region, and it is shown that in these emerging relations, when we talk about the relationship between Croatia and Serbia, simply, when you sign certain agreements, such as the SAA, and the state of Serbia has begun to apply this agreement, and indeed there is a delegation in this Parliament that has a common agreement twice a year and reports on how these processes are going. She never came into the situation, as Croatia came to violate such an agreement. That is why Serbia is always recognised as one stable political entity, especially in the areas of the Western Balkans, which is clearly now more for Croatia, which is even an EU member, cannot be said and it is unequivocally all European officials are talking about it. That is why this Parliament, as it is now, with all its legal solutions, shows that it is leading one extremely responsible policy together with the Serbian government and that it is a great honor to support such a government, especially when it is much more respected in the world than it is respected by many parties who are trying to take advantage of these moments for their daily-political appearance. So, in any case, this set of SNS laws in the voting day will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35408	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from this set of laws, I think that for all the most interesting laws in the area of public finances, changes and additions to the VAT Act, amendments and additions to the Tax Act, because these laws are in fact depicting the state of public finances today in Serbia. Under these laws, it can be said that the situation is much better than it was in the previous period. Also, statistics and only the Ministry of Finance came out with data that depicted a serious government work, the serious work of the tax administration over the past year. When it comes to budget revenues, only in August of this year compared to August 2004, we have a nominal increase of 29.6% and a real 26.9%. These are impressive results, and I think we can all praise the government, because this year, at least on that income side, she's done a lot of things. But it's not just about the revenue side. And on the apart side, the situation is much better, there are much smaller expenditures and all of us are in a situation that the deficit in August 2015 compared to August 2014 is three times smaller. VAT collection is also increased, not full of nine billion is charged with VAT more. In any case, this shows the serious work of the tax administration, showing that all reforms carried out in the area of consolidation of public finances have success. If not, we could not talk today about VAT, when it comes to transporters, when it comes to tourism, being reduced. It is that good signal, a good answer to all those who suspect tax policy and doubt public finances, that the government has the possibility at this time and that it reduces VAT, that there is no party that will be increased, because unfortunately some who advocate a policy that degrades the government in any way are most often hit by tax policy and are constantly scaring Serbian citizens by some increase in VAT. It has been presented by some colleagues and a series, I would say, incorrectly, not to say malicious data, claims that Serbia, for example, has a very large VAT country, is among the EU's largest VAT countries, and the indicators are quite different. There are countries in Europe that have smaller VAT, but in our environment you have countries whose VAT is 27%, which best shows that VAT in Serbia is central, that Serbia is in the middle when it comes to the EU, but therefore labour taxes, income taxes, corporate profit taxes are significantly lower, which is the government's commitment to taxing consumption rather than taxing labour. There's a lot of positive things going on over the past year, which doesn't mean that you should get involved. There is still a lot of work to be done in Serbia when it comes to public finances. But the tax index, which is the most measured indicator, shows that Serbia with some 104 points is far lower than the large majority of countries, primarily in the environment and that in Serbia, tax burdens are not nearly as large as individuals are trying to play, and the other problem is that the economic power of our entrepreneurs and our citizens is small and that is the basic problem and something that we need to start over the next period. I am convinced that after the consolidation of the fiscal system, we are going into serious reforms, systemic reforms in certain sectors, and that the savings in this next period will be even greater and that we as a country in the budget are much more isolated for investment, and much less for those expenditures in the area of social policy, which are prescribed by the laws themselves and which you cannot avoid. So, when it comes to VAT law, the most important thing for Serbian citizens is that there is no increase in VAT, there is no additional obligation. There are equations, that's what's good, that's what's good, that's what makes tax procedures easier. So, unification, when it comes to accommodation, for all those business entities that deal with the accommodation of tourists. We have a uniformity when it comes to the transport of passengers and there's nothing wrong with it. That's one good measure of government, and that's the measure that involves reducing certain types of carriers, the value added tax from 20% to 10%. There is a VAT law that also requires foreigners to respect our legal system in the future and will also be bonds, taxpayers of Serbia, which will complete and increase tax revenues, which is also good. It is good that in the area of construction, the government recognized the need to bring investors and performers together and avoid the tax ejaculation. Therefore, everything that has been given in this law has been given with the aim of simplifying the procedure, simplifying the legal solutions so far, increasing the number of tax-paying entities, which will pay future taxes, thus making it easier for tax collectors to pay and to reduce the fear of future excessive debt. As for the tax law, more specifically the amendments to the Tax Act, I think that some colleagues overestimate the amounts they have given. As far as I've looked at the law, and I've read it, of course, it's a lot more of those taxis that are being abolished than those that are being introduced. The reason is simple. All that is being introduced is the amendment and addition of laws or new legal solutions that we adopted in the previous period. So, the excessive goal was not to increase the pressure on Serbian citizens, but to simply bring the Tax Act into line with new legal solutions and to update all this. The mortgage law, there's a lot of things that's been said. As we talked, and it was on the agenda a few months ago, it doesn't bring anything new, it corrects one mistake that's obvious, the Constitutional Court decisions are respected, which is normal, and on that side I don't think there's much to talk about. The loan law, purely for citizens, information, will mean that, when it comes to prison institutions, we get another prison facility that will be moved from Panchev, to the periphery of the city that we unfortunately need, as well as in any society, but a loan with very small interest and loan that will not, at least when it comes to interest, significantly burden the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, I could conclude, the legal solutions that are good ahead of us, show stability of public finances, show the government's success, the government in the previous year, and I am sure that the vast majority of MPs will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35410	I thank you, Mr Antic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35411	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, above all, the goal of every serious state is to continuously improve legislation in all areas. I see, by this law today, the promotion of legislation in the field of taxation, in the area of more efficient VAT collection, then in preventing abuse in this area, but also in improving the VAT control system by the Tax Administration, and all of this with the aim of creating an adequate environment for economic operators in our country, for adequate work and development. The whole legislative act, very important, is written so that it is in agreement with the EU legislation that regulate this area. With this fact, I would point out a very important part of this law, which is to regulate the areas of the person performing the transport of goods and services in our country, and they have no residence, or headquarters in our country. This law practically regulates this problem, where such persons are introduced into the VAT system. What's very important is that an institution of power is being introduced for these persons. It's so-called. IRS. In this way, I personally believe that a kind of equality is being established in this way between these economic operators doing the goods and services that are based in our country with those who do not have headquarters in our country. That way they have the same rights and obligations. What matters is that this law regulates and determines good cooling energy. Why do I say that? Because so far, this has not been the case, and it has been changed in addition to cooling energy related to the place and time of transport of electricity, natural gas, as well as heating energy, i.e. cooling, of which the delivery is carried out through the transmission, i.e. the transport network. In addition to regulation of legislation in this area, I can say that this law will also contribute to the regulation of legislation in the field of traffic, hospitality and construction, and we have heard even that MPs from the opposition praise these legislative proposals in these areas. What I consider to be a significant shift, which is precisely about the tax service and the tax administration, are amendments relating to the making-up of the VAT billing review and its delivery with the tax application. I think that this way one valid record will be established, so tax revenues will be established and the VAT collection control will be improved, so I welcome this part of the law as well. For these reasons, I think that this law will have positive effects, not only on the tax administration, but also on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and for the reasons that I believe that this is how the scope is increased, and I also think that the number of taxpayers will increase. No less significant effect will be that foreign persons, who do not have a seat in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, are practically entering the VAT system through tax attorneys and thus will ensure that, in addition to having the same obligations, they have the same rights as all taxpayers, i.e. economic operators, persons doing the transport of services, good in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I support the law, and I think this law will make a qualitative shift in the next period in the areas it defines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35412	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35413	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Becic, dear Minister Vujovic and his associates, honourable MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am pleased that Dr. Vujovic and his associates are often seen in this high house, home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This also speaks of his activity and commitment to work, as well as the activities of the ministry he runs, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. We have before us the laws amending and supplementing the VAT Act, the Republic of administrative fees, the mortgage and the law confirming the framework loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, and I just want to say a few words about it. This proposal for a bill to confirm a framework loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, as well as the previous three draft laws, has its foothold, not only in the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, but also in the exhibition of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, who submitted to the MPs in this high house, the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 27 April, in the year 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, to remind ourselves, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic is the most comprehensive, most precise, most concrete, biggest, 52 densely typed sides and the best of all 72 previous exposés of the government since the time of the first Serbian Prime Minister, Prote Mateja Nenadovic, to this day. Gentlemen, on the 46th Expose page, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Alexander Vukic writes, among other things, quotes: "The continuation of the reconstruction of existing and the construction of new prison facilities is a prerequisite for achieving appropriate standards in the field of human rights protection, and for meeting the conditions in pre-accession negotiations, and in this sense the construction of new district prisons in Panchev and Kragujevac will continue," the quote concluded. Gentlemen, of course, here goes the adoption of this law to realize the project of building and equipping prisons in Panchev. Respected citizens of Serbia, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this is what our Prime Minister and SNS do, according to the system, written, built, accomplished. With this bill, we provide a loan of 18m euros for the partial financing of the project of construction and prison equipment in Panchev. The implementation of this project will be active in supporting the implementation of three strategies; the Strategy for reforming the system of enforcement of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia's institute sanctions, secondly, the Strategy for reducing the overload of accommodation facilities in Serbia's institutions in time 2010-2015. Year, and third, Strategy for developing a criminal sanctions system in the Republic of Serbia by 2020. Dear People's MPs, there are many reasons why the Panchev County Prison is being built. I'm not going to talk about it, and you're going to let me point out very briefly for five reasons. First, the current district prison is an insufficient capacity, second, the location is located in the centre of the town of Pancheva, third, the current facility in which the County Penitentiary, believe it or not, was built in the 19th century, and is of enormous cultural and historical importance, and fourthly, the facility is protected by the state of the Republic of Serbia and finally fifth, there is no possibility that the existing facility could be upgraded or expanded. A new location of the facility, as you know, will be seven kilometers from Pancheva. The accommodation capacity of the prison will be 500 persons, of which 200 persons are in the investigation process and 300 are legally convicted. The total area of the prison will be 15,000 square meters. What is very important is building and equipping this prison will contribute to the reduction of all forms of crime, and not only that, but it will draw closer to standards and the irritation of prisons in the Republic of Serbia, European standards, which is very important. Finally, I invite you gentlemen Members of Parliament to vote on these laws and amendments and amendments to the law in the day of voting, as well as proposals for these laws. I especially call on you from a weak opposition, because at least a little, even in this way, you will demonstrate your commitment to reforms that will modernize our country for which the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia are taking place, supported by the President of the State of Tomislav Nikolic, and supported and recognised by all relevant European and world factors. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we give full support to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in leading the wise peaceful, civilized, dignified by European and world standards of foreign policy, taking care of our national and national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35414	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35415	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, today we have a set of financial laws before us, and this proposal to amend and supplement the VAT Act, the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Republic of Administrative Taxes and the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. These three laws, as well as the agreement and how important they are, above all, from the financial aspect, but also from the aspect of the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation, especially when it comes to VAT law, because the amendments and additions to this law are one of the conditions for opening Chapter 16 relating to taxes. I would also like to point out as positive, and it concerns changes and additions to the VAT law, which will be introduced into the VAT system by foreign citizens who are performing goods and services in our country's territory, which are not based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This law is also important from this aspect of what is being introduced, of course in line with the European law of the power of attorneys. When it comes to the Mortgage Act, it is significant primarily with two aspects. This government, as a responsible government, respects the decisions of the judicial authorities, and this is about respecting the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia since July of this year, where Article 31, paragraph 7. The mortgage law that was normally passed in 2005 is not in agreement with the Constitution. Except for compliance with the decision taken by the Constitutional Court and, of course, the recommendation that, in the focus of the Mortgage Act, it should be possible to focus on the extrajudicial sale of mortgage immovable property. This law is also significant from the aspect of the strategy adopted by the government at its session on 13 August 2015, and the strategy is usually related to the resolution of problematic loans, and problem loans are all loans that are up to 90 days late. As regards the amendment and addition of the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which is otherwise brought to intervention, i.e. at the request of several ministries, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour, the martial arts and social affairs, I must first point to Article 19 of this proposal of the Law. Article 19. The bill has been regulated on what is not paid for by a republican tax. Of course, these include those procedures and those which are applied under official duty, but they include all the procedures and requirements that are submitted by particularly endangered categories of population, which are citizens who exercise the right to social benefits, citizens who exercise the right to stay in the right to stay alive, citizens who exercise the right to a child's allowance. The newspaper is that among the taxes that are not paid, those persons, or those who are victims of domestic violence, are certainly for every commendation. I would also add that some administrative fees have been abolished, and of course in accordance with the laws that have been adopted. Thus, in accordance with the Law on travel documents, a visa belonging to the so-called B-type visa is abolished and applies to shipping and maritime books, for the reason that, in accordance with the new law of the shipping and maritime books supplied by the visa, the travel document is no longer available. Some administrative taxis are also being reduced, such as administrative fees when it comes to persons training drivers in cases of changing the business space or the polygon. They shall submit 50% of the administrative fee for those requirements. This Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in the work relating to the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, which has also submitted a proposal for harmonisation, is a tariff mark of 209 which is extended in accordance with the Social Protection Act of 2011 and the Terms and Conditions and Standards Regulation for providing social protection services, there is a tax paid, except for user accommodation institutions, and for services provided in the local community, as well as for support services for the independent life of users from the domain of social protection. I would like to point out another and what meaning of the agreement signed with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, which refers to building a 500 prison capacity. So the capacity of that prison is going to be 500. The implementation of this project will be entrusted with the Ministry of Justice which has already formed a unit that will also be responsible for preparing, but also for forming tendering contracts, for monitoring project activities, as well as for financial reporting to the bank that lends the loan for these purposes. I must also point out that in this year, the Republic of Serbia will participate in this project non-financially and for 2016/2017. The year will certainly be a projected asset. Here I would like to emphasise just two aspects of this prison agreement. It is primarily this social aspect, a social aspect in terms of improving the quality of life of prisoners in prison, but also improving the quality of working conditions of people who work in prison. I would also like to mention a benefit that can expect the whole of society, which is software activities aimed at the educational and educational activities of prisoners. This is important from the aspect of the resociation of persons in prison and from the aspect of the adoption of new socially acceptable patterns of behaviour, as well as from the aspect of reducing relapsers, i.e. reducing returnees to prisons. I would also like to point out that this educational and educational character that will be the activity of this project will have great importance for prison employees, as it will acquire new knowledge, new skills and new experiences. That way the employees will improve their work. The project is also important in terms of environmental protection, especially when it comes to energy efficiency, when it comes to water savings, when it comes to waste management and waste water. What is certainly not controversial, is that the SNS will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35416	Thank you. The word is Mr Milos Tosanic, and let the MP Milija Miletic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35417	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman of Vienna. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards this set of laws, I will refer and refer first to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Act on additional value and to Mr Dusan Vujovic's presentation and I will give some positive examples as regards the amendments and additions to the law itself, and as regards the Republic's administrative taxis. So, this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, in the subsequent presentation I will highlight it as VAT, came to the assembly procedure by emergency procedure for a reason. Following the bilateral screening for Chapter 16, which is related to taxes, there was a need for compliance with EU rules. What is most important is that in a shorter period of time it is necessary to create conditions for recording in the foreign VAT system that operate on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which do not have a residence on the same, with the help of the tax attorney. This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act has many positive effects, of which I have already listed one worse, and this time I will look back at some more of them. In the first place, I would point out that this law supports and creates conditions for the business of new foreign investors, especially in the area of providing accommodation services in catering facilities and areas of transport of road passengers, which will undoubtedly raise the level of tourism attractive Serbia and Serbia that has something to offer in tourism and how. Of course, it's one of a series of positive proposals of this law that goes through this whole law. In order to achieve the best possible application of this law, both precise and other legal solutions, as well as legal and technical harmonisations, have been proposed. This law has a positive impact on the creation of new operators on the market, and this also has a favourable impact on market competition. By clarifying several members of this law, there is a better application of the law itself, as well as easier interpretation, which inevitably leads to a series of improvements. Simplifications or clarifications in writing of this law have been done as certain attitudes have been erased and others that have been complemented so that they are very understandable, simple and simply do not have that ambiguity. One of the advantages of clarifying these members is to reduce the scope of the law itself without a single loss in quality, i.e. functionality. Also, new members have been introduced that regulate certain processes in detail, i.e. protocols that have not been covered in the current law, which concern important matters regarding the transport and provision of services by foreign persons. So, so far, there has been no possibility that some members of the law, who are not up to the current situation where we live, with the intention of making the Republic of Serbia stand on solid economic soil, will achieve co-operation with foreign persons and, of course, achieve VAT collection that would follow during their work, i.e. traffic with us, but rather the opposite. With this law, we want business side-by-side cooperation to be as good as possible. In any case, this bill brings a series of improvements and leaves no room for any malfeasance. After the adoption of this law, its positive effects will be immediately noticed, so that they will be very visible and as soon as possible. Also, one of the very important and important elements that this law adopts is the prevention of abuse, including as regards the security and improvement of VAT control by the tax administration. I would also point out that this law proposes that the taxpayer be the recipient of goods and services and in the case of traffic between VAT debtors, and that for the transport of electricity and natural gas supplied through the transporter, transport or distribution network supplied by the VAT obligor for further sale. Finally, as far as this law is concerned, this law, in addition to everything said, also has a lot of good solutions in other different segments, and I would like to stress that, in addition to all this established tax-law measures, it contributes to legal certainty and also provides transparency in the conduct of tax policy. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, I would like to stress that the main reason for the adoption of this law is to examine the compliance of the subject-matter of a tax liability with the files and actions paid for by the Republic's administrative tax. A number of ministries, as mentioned here, have launched an initiative to amend the existing law, which is an indication that this law is very important because it goes through a lot of areas and, as such, it has to be more precise, more transparent, clearer and, of course, it has to move forward with the time and development of other laws. In the case of lack of sufficient interaction between individual laws, we have the result that something is made possible by one law and not by the other. This can be better described on the following case. The current law still applies to the Republic's administrative fees for records and actions by the authorities regarding the issue of visas to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. However, under the Law on travel documents 62/14, maritime and ship's books, supplied with visas, as a type of travel document, were abolished. That means these two laws are against each other. As a result, extensive consideration in the adoption of a proposal for any law is very important, not only this, because amendments in one law can directly affect other laws, as is the case now. Another positive example has been made when it comes to taxis. In many cases, when, for example, a renewed solution to meet the conditions for carrying out certain activities is allowed to split the amount of tax, which will greatly affect smaller firms, schools for drivers, etc. Whereas any relief in terms of funding for them is an opportunity to improve their business. As another advantage to be pointed out, it refers to the reduction of the final amount of taxis, that in the area of private security business only one, the highest fee is allowed, if the applicant has submitted more requests for authorisation. This is a logical and quite correct solution because it is estimated that conditions for obtaining an appropriate requirement can be achieved in one process using the same resources. This approach to the promotion of the law clearly tells us that it has been maximumly done to reduce expenditure for all those who have to receive various documents. At a free estimate, this will positively reflect the increase in activity or work in various spheres, as it is not a rare case that sometimes the amount that should be paid for the tax is a brake which in a specific way inhibits economic development, as well as the stability of a company, school and so on. Another shift forward has been made in terms of abolishing a number of administrative taxis. In particular, no more fees shall be paid for files and actions in the proceedings under official duty, then for the files in the procedure for correcting errors in solutions, applications and records. It's one of the factors that will contribute to protecting someone's search engine and so on, as well as his budget. It will also increase the responsibility of officials who make up these solutions, i.e. expose them, and so on. As a simple example, I'd say one case. During the process of issuing personal documents, i.e. ID cards, passports, the police officer was wrong to enter the data and, of course, these documents must change. Under current law, the applicant must re-pay the Republic's taxes for personal documents, although not guilty, of the offence committed, until, under the new Bill, that is not the case. This is one of the most harmless examples of the failure of the current law, where unnecessary time and money are spent by citizens because everyone knows that the procedure for issuing personal documents takes a certain period of time. This advantage comes explicitly when it comes to large amounts of money. A major positive shift is that taxes for the exercise of compulsory social security rights have been abolished and so on. This eliminates an unpleasant, slightly ridiculous situation, and I can say a sad situation, when a social aid user has to pay certain taxes, whose amount is not small at all, in order to exercise the right to social assistance, which was under current law, and it is now seeking social assistance because there is no means to live. This creates a situation that cannot achieve that aid because there is no money to pay the right tax. As it can be concluded, there are many more examples of this kind, and this gives the impression of the importance of amending this law, as well as the newspaper and the advantages it brings. The general conclusion that can be made is that this proposal for a law on the Republic's administrative fees has made changes that will allow for a more efficient system of charge, as well as a much higher level of protection, as well as for the user to pay taxes, as well as for institutions and bodies. This eliminates the harmful consequences of the work of the authorities and organisations, and that is one reason for the adoption of this law. Increasing efficiency in charging taxis will also increase the inflow of money in the budget, further positively affecting many other economic factors. Also, the adoption of this law does not require any specific funding from the budget, and therefore there is no reason for its failure to be adopted, and the benefit is multiple. In the end, it's just a sentence or two about the mortgage bill. As far as this law is concerned, I support the changes found in certain members where the words "legality" and "rightly" are replaced by the words "finality" and "final". I just want to say that I support this bill for the most part because it is a way to implement the objectives of resolving problematic loans, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is particularly related to the work of improving the extrajudicial process of sales. In addition to these three laws, which my smallity will vote for, and hopefully all members of the SNS as well as everyone else, I would like to say that I will also support the law confirming the Framework Agreement on Loan LD 1764 (2012) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia. On this occasion, I would like to welcome Minister Vujovic and wish him a lot of success in his work, as well as in the government, and thank everyone else for their attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35418	Thank you, Mr. Tosanic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic, and let the MP Dragan Paulovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35419	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, respected Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, Svrljig municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city, which is the town of Nis. Normally, there is no need to mention other cities and municipalities in Serbia, because Serbia is the most beautiful country in the world. The proposed amendments and additions of the Tax Act to additional value are significant because these amendments further comply with EU rules, introducing certain provisions preventing perceived abuses in this area. This also enables better VAT control by the Tax Administration. First of all, this Law creates conditions for taxation of foreign persons operating in our territory, and they do not have in our country the headquarters of a company, or residence. In connection with the business of foreign persons, a tax attorney for goods and services located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is also being introduced in our country and is doing a foreign face. Here it is regulated in which cases the taxpayer, a foreign person, is subject to tax authority, and when the taxpayer is a recipient of goods or services, i.e. a taxpayer of VAT, who also has for the account of a foreign person, charges a charge for the transport of goods or services carried out by a foreign person in the Republic of Serbia. Provisions that regulate the taxation of traffic in the area of construction works and which make business easier for construction firms are also significant, as a provision is introduced that the tax debtor is each recipient of goods or services. But it doesn't need, like so far, to be, or a contractor, as a supplier, or as an investor, as a recipient of goods or services. In this way, not the liquidity of construction companies will be reduced. These amendments also regulate the area of supply of electricity and natural gas by harmonising with the basic principles applicable in the EU. It is also significant that the concept of location and time of transport of electricity and natural gas and heating energy, i.e. cooling, is determined through a distribution network, which is relevant for the tax control process. The amendments to the Law propose the application of a special tax rate, a 10% VAT on the transport of accommodation services in all catering facilities, for accommodation according to the law governing tourism, not only in hotels, motels, resorts, homes and camps. I believe that it is a very important change and that it should be supported, because it is very practical to accelerate the development of tourism and business in rural tourism, because in this way it reduces the tax rate for entrepreneurs who move with a smaller accommodation capacity in their households and creates a favourable climate for the development of entrepreneurship in this area. In addition, it is also proposed to apply a 10% VAT tax rate for the transport of passengers and their luggage on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of whether it is urban, suburban, inter-urban, or international traffic. Not only in urban or suburban traffic, it is therefore a discharge for transport users, because there are conditions for reducing transport prices and reducing the burden on businesses involved in this activity. This law sets out other concepts which have been unclear so far and could be the basis for abuses, such as taxation of food and transportation expenditure. Changes in the tax base and correction of the deduction of the previous tax, the definition of total turnover based on which small taxpayers are determined, the determination of the tax period and others. I believe that these changes and additions contribute to legal certainty and prevents perceived abuses. In the current application of the Law, the introduction of a special tax rate is expanding the circle of goods and services, facilitating business operations in these areas, but also creating a possibility for lower prices of goods and services, which is significant for consumers, i.e. the population whose standard is significant for any relief. As an MP in the Serbian Parliament, from the list of SNS, and as an MP of the United Peasant Party, I will fully support a set of all these proposed laws, because I think this way we will have the opportunity to ensure the stability of our budget of the Republic of Serbia, and that we will also ensure that our agriculture, that our villages, can live better and easier. I have great confidence in our Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, where we see and now and back a few days of trying, fighting to save our Serbia with all those who have somehow stopped the development of our country, our neighbours, with whom we want to have good co-operation, but they are in some way, but they have a pre-election campaign. I have great confidence in the finance minister, in a man who has great knowledge, and therefore I am sure that the support of all of us MPs, the SNS Parliament Club where I represent the United Peasants' Party will have the opportunity to fill the budget much better, to provide much better and more funding for our agriculture for our villages, for southeastern Serbia and for all Serbia. That is why I will vote for a set of all these laws and also call on all fellow Members to support all the laws that are important to the future of our Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35420	Thank you, Mr. Miletić. The People's Messenger Dragan Paulovina has the word, and let the MP Dejan Kovacevic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Half.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35421	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, of all those present in the hall, in the context of this united debate, I would focus on this third item of the agenda, when it comes to mortgages. The proposal for a Mortgage Act in several members makes a significant contribution to the amendment of the applicable Mortgage Act. In the following order, as amended, Articles 7, 31, 34, 35 and 36 of the applicable law, but the key amendment applies to Article 31 of paragraph 7 of the applicable law in the part of the provision which reads that the second-degree solution is finally enforceable and that no action or remedy is allowed against it. This part of the provision, the bill is deleted. What is the draft law: The decision to record the mortgage sale is made by the RGZ as the first-degree body of the state administration and an appeal against the same is allowed. It is a first-degree procedure against which a dissatisfaction party may declare a complaint and which is decided by the second-degree body of the state administration, thus providing for two-stage decision-making in all cases. If the provision were to remain in force, the Mortgage Act of which is proposed and Article 31 paragraph 2 prohibiting the use of legal means and actions would continue to violate the principle of judicial control of the legality of administrative acts, since the mortgage debtor is denied the right to launch and conduct an administrative dispute as a procedure for the control of administrative acts before a competent administrative court. To point out that the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, which determines on the note of a mortgage declaration, allows the conduct of a administrative dispute, which is a procedural law because it is acted in the adoption of an administrative act. Otherwise, the applicable Mortgage Act excludes the possibility of conducting a litigation procedure in a mortgage contract with a view to more effective collection of claims by mortgage creditors in order to prevent a possible delay in the process of collecting the claims of mortgage creditors by using another court procedure by a mortgage debtor. If the debtor, as is now subject to the applicable law, would continue to be deprived of the right to control administrative acts thus continuing to violate the constitutional principle of general control of administrative acts. The State Prime Minister Act and the Catastro Article 180, paragraph 1, stipulates that administrative dispute can be conducted against second-degreed solutions and that the Mortgage Act, the Law on State Crossing and Cataster are in conflict with each other when it comes to judicial control of the legality of administrative acts. Because while the Mortgage Act in a provision whose amendment is proposed excludes the conduct of a administrative dispute, the State Prime Minister and Catastro Act allows that, which is a conflicting legal problem. The proposed amendment has resulted in amendments to some of the provisions of the Mortgage Act which, instead of the Institute of Justice of the Administrative Act which excludes the conduct of administrative proceedings, are proposed to amend and replace this Institute for the Finality of the Administrative Act, which means that, in accordance with the Law on Administrative Disputes, administrative dispute is prescribed against final administrative acts as a judicial control procedure for administrative acts. The Constitutional Court called for Article 198 in its decision declaring the non-constitutional provision of the Mortgage Act. The Constitution where a general principle has been declared that the legality of final acts, administrative acts, is subject to review by a administrative dispute if it is decided on the law and obligations or on the legal basis of the party's interest, so it is decided that the provision of Article 31 is The mortgage law is unconstitutional. It is generally known that the laws must be in accordance with the Constitution, and Article 4 guaranteeing the uniformity of the legal order in the Republic of Serbia, given that the Mortgage Act was adopted in 2005, before the Constitution was now declared and before it came into force, the Law on the State Prime Minister and the Cataster whose provision on the disputed issue is in conflict with the aforementioned provision of the Mortgage Act, I consider it necessary, when this contrast has not already been removed, in all respect of the proposal for this Law amending and supplementing the Mortgage Act in order to overcome the mutual discrepancies of the aforementioned laws in respect of the proceedings to protect the legality of final administrative acts, and thus preserve the general constitutional principle (from Article 198 of the Constitution of the RS). Given that the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Mortgage Act is aimed at preserving the unity of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, I propose that the MPs vote on these proposed amendments in front of the SNS during the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35422	I thank you, Mr. Half. The People's Messenger Dejan Kovacevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Radmilo Kostic. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35423	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today I will speak of a law from a set of laws that have arrived in the National Assembly, which concerns finance, which is one of the most significant laws, the Law on Value Added Tax. We all know that the value added tax is the most significant revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It represents a general consumption tax that is calculated and paid for the delivery of goods and the provision of services at all stages of production and transport, as well as imports of goods. This basically means that at each stage of the production cycle, the tax on that part of the value added at that stage is calculated and paid. The value added tax law came into force on 1 January 2005 and has so far proved effective in the fight against the grey economy. However, no law is ideal. Although it was made by the reputation of Western European legislation, due to its adaptation to our system, it had to endure several changes and additions. We have before us a bill on amendments and additions to that law to further improve and comply with EU rules, to allow for more favourable conditions for business operators, to prevent possible abuses and to allow better and more efficient control by the tax administration. I therefore also praise the government's activities and the Minister of Resort for its efforts to perfect this legal act in order to allow better conditions for predicting and fairer taxation of both domestic and foreign businesses. These changes do not increase the tax rate, as some predecessors have done, which would entail an increase in the prices of goods of broad consumption, but rather seek to expand the circle of taxpayers and thus achieve higher budgetary effects. By adopting the proposed legislative changes and additions, we will get a more modern law that will also create equal rights and obligations for all economic operators in the same tax and legal situation, which will increase its transparency. Proposed amendments to the law allow the creation of conditions for recording in the VAT system and foreign persons, i.e. persons who do not have a headquarters on the territory of our country, or residence, but in our territory do traffic of goods and services. Until the current legal act, this was only in principle regulated by the activity of foreign legal persons through a business unit, i.e. through the legal provision that the obligor of VAT and the person performing the traffic of goods and services on his behalf and on behalf of the other person. This created suitable soils for various manipulations and abuses as it allowed certain economic activities to be below taxation. The introduction of a tax authority institute, a foreign business entity for the transport of goods and services, prevents the non-taxation of traffic between foreign persons carried out in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This is also the case with the mutual harmonisation of existing tax rules with the aim of comprehensive expansion of the circle of taxpayers with a more even tax burden on existing taxpayers. By precision of the place and time of supply of energy, electricity, heat and cooling energy, legislation shall be specified in order to remove the misunderstandings in their application. I particularly welcome the introduction of a category of tax debtor in the field of goods and services construction, which is carried out by a taxpayer of VAT to the republic, province or body of local self-government, i.e. a legal person established in order to perform the tasks of administration and local self-government, i.e. bearing part of responsibility in paying taxes on the recipient of goods and services, independent of VAT obligations. This introduces a higher degree of tax-law discipline and enables greater efficiency of tax collection. The recipient of goods or services, the budgetary user must be interested in who he is operating with, and whether or not the tax is accounted for and paid in that business. Also, we are aware that in the current tax practice, there have been cases that, when obtaining property or part of property, their sticker is released with the fulfilment of the legal requirements of paying value added tax. The value of that property passed over millions of figures, and after some time conditions for the used tax exemption ceased to exist, and the state remained cut off for a substantial amount of tax. By adopting a legal amendment, it will be impossible to do so, and by meeting the conditions for tax release there must be a constant existence for three years from the acquisition of property. By the end of any conditions, the tax will be retroactively charged and charged. Paying taxes in taxing accommodation services in all catering facilities for accommodation, not only in hotels, motels, resorts, homes and camps at 10% is a very important measure for which I personally advocate. Namely, I come from Gornji Milanovac where rural tourism is developed, and by equating the tax rate in this type of accommodation of guests with other forms of tourism, it will create preconditions for greater earnings and greater investment in accommodation capacity. This will improve the development of rural areas. Also, taxation of passenger transport and their luggage on the territory of the Republic, not only in urban and suburban traffic, but in the inter-urban and international rates of 10%, is a tax charge for many transport companies operating on the edge of rentability. Finally, one practical legal solution consisting of the obligation to make a review of the calculated VAT and their delivery with a tax application will allow easier and more efficient work for tax inspectors to control the accounting of this type of tax. In the end, I think I've put out a lot of arguments for which we should all support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35424	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. The People's Messenger Radmilo Kostic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Milan Petrovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35425	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, preparing for this session today with all the amendments and additions to the laws that we are making today, I have a problem that my colleagues before me have almost said everything about the amendments to the VAT and mortgage laws and the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, so I would like not to talk about it, but just some suggestions and something that bothers us all like this, which is the gray economy and the gray zone. It is likely that Minister Vujovic as a man who has worked in both the World Bank and the international experience that he certainly has in Serbia a very small number of people, follows the magazine, or the publication of the "Tax Tribune" magazine, etc., which states that more than half of the traffic of goods and services in our country is being carried out in the gray zone. If one of the colleagues mentioned earlier, now let's turn the subject a little bit to the budget, that during this financial year the plan of VAT collection, some 350 billion dinars, about so, don't blame me if I've misjudged a few billion, and if it's true that half the traffic is being made in that gray zone, then we can think of what it would be like if we could reach, say, some level of developed countries, Scandinavian countries, where legal traffic takes place somewhere within 80 to 85%. That would probably have good indications on the budget deficit, or we'd probably be saved from the budget deficit. Also, I'd like to mention, while you were Minister of Economy, if you remember, we had an informal conversation in the regional chamber of the Nis. You told me then that you once explored the Old Mountain in the '80s or the '70s, don't blame me if I'm wrong, why now we don't have so many sheep on the Old Mountain, etc. It could all be if this part of what we were talking about earlier, if we were to be able as a serious state to have serious tax resources and more tax sources, it's a stronger state, of course, and that the money that we'd collected from the gray zone we're just investing, for example, in the Old Mountain, so that people can deal with livestock, so that we can improve the production of sheep, meat, wool, for all that we need infrastructure. The municipalities themselves are very difficult to implement with their local budgets, so that in this sense state aid from the part where we would charge for this VAT that we lack would certainly improve some branches. Also, the textile industry, which is really out of hand, here, we had in Pirot the example of "First May", which was once the Dick and the Pride of Pirot, as well as the Old Yugoslavia, the First of May clothing industry, a.d. is in bankruptcy, the second part of which was privatized by the Slovenian company and it's shutting down. "Jumko" is in serious trouble, "Beneton" in Nis, how much or so something is maintained, so that you, as finance minister, may have to propose to you in the coming period some strategic measures to preserve this textile industry, if we want to preserve the textile industry, even if we apply some customs or non-tariff barriers, to say, in agreement with European legislation. Here, I just wanted so much. I'm sorry, maybe even the chairman for jumping off the subject a little bit, but in order for not everyone to repeat themselves, I'm just appealing to Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35426	The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35427	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I assume that the amendment and addition of the Mortgage Act is merely an equalisation with the Constitutional Court Decision published in the Official Messenger. (Alexandar Martinovic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35428	I apologize, MP, how can I interrupt the speaker now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35429	All right, I'll keep going later.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35430	I thank you. It wasn't common, and here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35431	Thank you, Madam President. I really didn't mean to interrupt my colleague Petric's presentation. I'm advertising Article 108. I want to say that Serbia has won a great victory today. The government of the Republic of Serbia's policy has triumphed in the best possible way today. The border with Croatia has been unblocked, and it has been shown that the policy of Alexander Vukic and the government of the Republic of Serbia has yielded results. We have shown that we can, in the best possible way, defend state and national interests, defend the interests of the Serbian economy, defend the interests of the Serbian state, but this time, Europe fully supports us. I would like to invite all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to watch a press conference tonight at 21.00 p.m. for the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and we are all looking forward to our victory together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35432	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35433	As I have already noted, I assume that the amendment and supplementation of the Mortgage Act was in fact just a alignment with the Constitutional Court Decision, which had an objection and refused to make Article 31st paragraph 7. The mortgage law, which reads – and against it is not allowed to be sued or a legal remedy. I must remind you that the Serbian People's Party was not adopted a few months ago, when the law was in the assembly procedure here on the agenda, it submitted the same amendment and that the amendment was not adopted, so I would take the opportunity to draw attention to the minister and the other colleagues so that they would nevertheless carefully analyse the amendments that the MPs are submitting. The proposal to amend and supplement the VAT Act represents the eighth amendment to this law from 2004 to today. In this respect, it is sufficient to note that the VAT Act has already undergone two amendments and complemented only in 2014 and that a new legislative proposal on amendments to this law is submitted within a period of less than one year. It is obvious that the law, which was incomplete, incomplete, incomplete in its initial adoption in 2004, contained in itself a number of logical, formal and other essential shortcomings, which conditioned that it suffered seven changes and additions during its application period. The legislative proposal to amend and supplement today would represent the eighth amendment and supplement, which raises the question of the elemental, logical, formal, and essential nature of this law and above all, given that the law should be one of the bearing pillars of the regulation of our country's fiscal system. This frequency of law-making causes a completely opposite effect, and economic operators feel quite insecure over the longer term, i.e. they function between the current and some future changes and additions of this law. The frequent changes and additions of laws have a negative effect on the very work of the Ministry of Finance and Tax Administration. Let us not forget that there is a certain period of adaptation of all the documents to which these new legal norms have been passed. What is imposed on itself is that, if adopted, there is a possibility that there may be some ninth, tenth, or who knows in turn which new legislative proposal to amend and supplement this law. In particular, this legislative proposal highlights three newspapers: taxation of foreign persons and the introduction of a tax authority for a foreign person, the extension of the base of tax debtors in accordance with the rules on the execution and administration of a special, or the privileged tax rate of 10% for catering accommodation facilities and passenger transport. The Serbian People's Party welcomes the introduction of taxation by foreign persons, as it practically implements reciprocity with European legislation and, more importantly, extends the base of tax debtors. We believe that these tax revenues can be issued and the introduction of a tax attorney is a completely logical trail, because they know better about domestic legislation and will be easier to determine the responsibilities and enforce sanctioning in the event of a possible breach of the rules. Also, this system is set up to reduce tax avoidance opportunities for foreign persons established by domestic entities through VAT. Giving a special tax rate for catering accommodation facilities and transport of passengers related to domestic, urban, urban and international transport is discriminatory, because in a group of special tax rates there are basic provisions of life, medicines, fertilisers, communals, tickets to concerts, theatre, cinema and not to list everything else. Logically, transportation services aren't exactly the place in this group. However, because of the development of tourism in the Republic of Serbia, it makes sense that the group is on the list of privileged tax rates. We believe that, after a certain period of time, for example, after three, four, five years, these services should be abolished by the benefited VAT rates and should be taxed on a regular VAT tax rate. Because of all the above and due to frequent changes and regulations and indirect creation of legal uncertainty, the Serbian People's Party simply does not want the economy to suffer, and therefore it would be more comprehensive to pass a completely new comprehensive VAT law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35434	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad the border is off-limits, so I believe there will be more VAT. I think my colleagues, some MPs, were scared, those who were used to going after Briony and Vis, so they were a little afraid that the blockade might last. As for these three laws and ratifications, of course I will support it. As far as VAT is concerned, I look forward to equating some tax rates, but since the Minister of Finance is present here, I would like to give him an example from practice, which touches us, farmers, real farmers, and winemakers, therefore, it is about equating the rate on finished product, about herbicides, pesticides, fungicides. When importing these funds, VAT is paid at a rate of 10%, but if we import raw materials to produce it ourselves, then VAT on that raw material is 20%. So that's how foreign production is favored, and I believe the minister didn't know it, that's the legacy we inherited, that's how foreign production is favored, not domestic and message - better introduced than production is very bad. I believe that in some future changes and additions to the law, the Ministry of Finance will take account and that it will not do what the party of the former regime did, or the previous government, which did not matter what, for example, VAT on import goods was two-thirds of the total VAT sum, and one-third was domestic VAT, given that they favoured imports, that money was borrowed not to raise our production but to go to consumption. That's how production grew for those countries, because we bought borrowed goods for borrowed money. When we came into the house of the naked walls, to a stateless state, to a land without hope, out of the space from which he was fleeing, the founding state was such that the state was totally thrown into the dust, and that our viewers should know, it's hard to build a building. So we have to mix the clay first, and then the clay burns bricks, cracks, builds the foundations, walls, lifts the roof, and the procedure is far longer, because the state one for me is a complex and long-made product and it is not easy to make, since the one we found was completely devastated, economically, economically unsustainable, morally mutilated, where the main value was that we had a country that was distracted in development, politicians with special needs. Today, when a member of the former regime’s party, or head of their parliamentary group, was dissipated against the poor, I could fully support his speech that the state should stand in the protection of its people, but people should also stand in the protection of the state. So that love must be mutual. I would agree with that speech about the poor, the unemployed, the low-paid, but it should also say why it happened and simply say that there had to be a reduction in wages and pensions because money was not invested in production but in consumption, that at the time of most borrowing, 400,000 jobs were lost immediately. That's why I ask them, myself and all of us -- should pensions be reduced, or salaries in the public sector, if 400,000 jobs were not lost? Because people on the income side went to the expense side, they became social cases. If we had 400,000 of these contributions to the PIO now, if we had health insurance, we would certainly have far more money in the budget and we could not reduce pensions, but we could increase them from production, from real sources, people come to money. Certainly, the VAT rate, as it is or slightly smaller, could, thanks to that consumption, carry this country, because our goal is to make a cheap, dedicated state, which will be financed from its incomes, in which the main product will not be debt. That's why it's my duty to uphold all these laws. Those who have called for that – our time is yet to come, I must warn them, and I will be very brief, so that other colleagues may speak, so I must warn them that this will happen on "the holy one never". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35436	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable National Assembly President, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mr Vujovic, you say we should amend the Law on Value Added Tax in order to further comply with EU rules. I heard it this morning, read in the explanation of the bill, read also in the stenographic notes and let me tell you, Minister Vujovic, we agree, it should be done. Another thing, Mr Vujovicu, you say we need to change this law in order for the transport of accommodation services, for example, in all catering facilities to be taxed at the same or equal tax rate, rather than at different tax rates, as is the case now. Mr. Vujovicu, we agree, we should. Dear gentlemen and Mr Vujovic, I must now enter here some dynamics after these lullabys that you could hear from the MPs, first of all, the SNS and I have two objections to this bill. You are proposing a terrible empowerment of the discretionary minister's rights, precisely by this bill, in this case of your powers. I'll give you examples. We feel that this is not good and that, Minister Vujovicu, we do not agree. For example, Article 5 leaves the minister closer to sorting out what is considered secondary raw materials. Article 11 leaves it to the Minister to regulate the way in which the tax base is determined. We also have an art. 12th and 19th. Minister Vujovic, we have a terrible empowerment of discretion, not just any, but the discretionary rights of the competent minister. We have observed the matter in parallel, and we have seen that in many countries, we have cited it in our amendments, in the reasons, that this thing is not so defined, but it is legally regulated or regulated, and not that it is put into law that the minister can arrange it that way. We've submitted amendments to change that. I ask you, Minister Vujovic, that you may follow a little more carefully speaking to us opposition MPs, and not only the lullabys we have heard so far, because we have had one experience, gentlemen, that a law that was passed here, which was voted by those who were reading lullabys, had to withdraw from the procedure after it was adopted in our National Assembly, and we have warned in a speech that it should not be adopted. Minister Vujovic, I have another remark about this bill. He says this - to prevent abuse, you suggest a new document is introduced called the VAT account review. We're not in agreement about that, and I want to explain here why we're not in agreement. You are proposing the introduction of a new administrative document, if not, here's an explanation for the taxpayer, with an explanation that this responds to the tax administration's inefficiencies, and we believe, Mr Vujovic, that instead of solving the tax administration's inefficientness, you are burdening taxpayers with additional and unnecessary regulations, and yet you claim that this is the way in this bill to solve another problem. I've been reading carefully, consulting with our people on our guidance council, twice, three times, and we didn't believe this existed. If we misread Mr Vujović about this document, we were wrong about the interpretation, please tell me now what this misread is, and if we estimate that we are not wrong, then please consider the amendments carefully, read the explanations. We have submitted eight amendments to this bill and my expectation is that you will accept all eight amendments, because it seems to us that by accepting these amendments this law would really become good and secure, here I am telling Mr Babic who listens very carefully, that we are voting in favour of this bill on condition that they accept. Minister Vujovic, I invite you, as Mr Martinovic has conveyed one piece of information earlier, I invite you to join us on Sunday at four o'clock at a meeting here in Belgrade to wake up a little, Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35438	Please. I'm sorry, Minister. I answered on your behalf. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35439	Three concrete answers. We will be very happy to read and propose amendments, if you have already suggested, we will be very happy to read and consider and appreciate. Secondly, we can consider what enters that document that will be declared by the obligors in the VAT system. I don't know if you've seen those documents, but the existing documents have shocked me long before. A few years before I was in this position I tried to sign up to be in a simple business of renting an apartment in the VAT system and I was shocked that I wasn't even able to recognize the terms on those forms. I was shocked to find a report on the state of the stock in renting the apartment. There's no stock by definition. Or even more so, I had to buy a hundred-formal book so I could carry something that reads the initial state of stock of zero, the final state of stock of zero, no effect of supplies to get out of the VAT system. So I've had experience a long time ago, very specific. What's this about? This is about the fact that in most countries, we also follow the European practice that whoever calculates the VAT who normally has to write all these figures to himself to report VAT or has asked for VAT refund, only those same relevant figures to write in the form. It helps the tax administration know very quickly how to get the VAT, not to guess, instead of sending them to bring files, extract computer files, it's already written. We think we're doing everything we can to keep that login system backed up by active electronic tables in which they themselves, if they have electronic accounting, will generate those reports themselves that they don't have to do anything. Therefore, if your observation is to increase the job, then we have miswritten something and we will be happy to look at it. So the intention is quite the opposite, that those in the accounting process, reporting imports, selling, vomiting do it almost automatically. I think it'll be very soon and automatically. Therefore, any objection you may make that might improve on the way is our intention. So our intention is absolutely not to increase bureaucratic procedure or cost, which is what we suggest, and that law allows in those spheres where there is an electronic system we allow people to consistently report it. I will read to you the existing Law on how to pay a taxi member on the 10th where the same thing applies, says – evidence that he paid a fee, except in cases of some special, when the payment is made in cash, electronically or otherwise. It means that someone who's via Telenor Bank or some other bank that has an electronic payment can bring on the phone confirmation that they've made an electronic fee. There's no need to print it, to file a printed copy. The electronic copy is sufficient since the number to confirm payment is sufficient evidence and will allow tax authorities and all others to have insight into that payment has actually been made, as is the insight into the state of the giro account, current account or any other account. Therefore, we aim to unite it and make it possible for the simplest payment. As for these concrete proposals you said, I have one thing to say, it's my second global remark today. We need to get out of the mental state of law enforcement. Discretion isn't bad if there's control and responsibility. So we can't rewrite everything to the law, we'll always be late for events. There is no need to run away from responsibility if it is better defined by law, if the objective is defined by law, if the instruments are defined by law and if the measurement of what is thus defined by law is achieved. So I'm against trying to define everything by law, because then we're going to go back to the Assembly and ask for amendments to the law. Let me give you an analysis of the items that come through my board, which is the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance. We have hundreds of objects and to alienate individual cars worth 2,000 euros. Guys, that doesn't make sense, and that's why we take down responsibility for those people who propose and decide, that delegation to the level where you don't know who's responsible anymore is not a good way. It's much better that the chief of some car-expensive office should register and say, please, here's a report of the technical examination of the car not passing, they're for expenses, I'm signing that it should be spent. To me it's a much better system than the system I know who it is, let's delegate to the prime minister, to parliament, and then finally you don't know who's responsible for what. So I'm in favour of not taking too much discretion and too much responsibility, but finding the right measure. Here, for example. In the case of secondary raw materials, we can spend two days, exhaust ourselves in the debate until we can figure out what secondary raw materials are and what isn't, where these lines of demarcation are. You need to say the principles and you need to let go of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35440	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35441	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 107, paragraphs 1 and 2. In attitude 1, the speaker must respect the dignity of the National Assembly, inter alia, the use of offensive expressions is prohibited. In his speech, my previous fellow speaker, Mr. Pavicevic, attempted academically to offend the MPs in his speech. He twice used the expression that MPs read lullabys. He didn't do it once, he did it twice, and I felt it as an insult since I didn't notice anyone reading any lullaby. And if he had read, I think the dignity of the National Assembly was injured, given that he had no one to sleep on the other side, except his colleagues Pavicevic. Therefore, I also find it offensive when he speaks from that place – we opposition MPs, and he is alone. Is he persiring himself or is he seeing some MPs who aren't here? To me, it's a surprise that even a fellow vincier wouldn't listen to him, so he was all alone. I think the use of the term – we opposition MPs at the moment when it is not appropriate and is not academically congratulating. A colleague Pavicevic tried to insult us, it failed, but for respect's sake it is our obligation to oppose anyone who does not want to respect us and we cannot prevent him from doing so and therefore we need to apply the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Articles 108 and 109. I'm not asking you to vote on that. I believe in his lively and academic honesty he made more laps than he seriously thought anyone here read lullaby.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35442	The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35443	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister Vujovic, Honored National Assembly Presidents, I believe that he is a recently injured member of 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which defines the right of the People's Parliament to report for word of injury to the Rules of Procedure. The previous speaker is one word I actually used, and that word is lullaby, he called it an ugly word. Dear gentlemen, that's not an ugly word. The lullabys are recited to the children before bedtime. Why could that be ugly? The Serbian language dictionary says that lullaby is a song that puts someone to sleep. My intention was to tell Minister Vujovic, the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, that the SNS MPs wanted today during the session of Minister Vujovic to send only fine words and messages, and I believe that the MP has an obligation that when he meets in the National Assembly with a single minister, who is always a representative of the executive government, that this opportunity should be used, it is his obligation, to reconsider him a little, to criticise that minister rather than, the respected National Assembly president, Mrs Gojkovic, that all here in a row from the ruling coalition are preparing the lullabys. So it's not an ugly word, it's not an unparliamentary term, it's not an attempt to offend anyone, it's a reminder of what rights are and what the duties of the MPs are in our National Assembly as a central political institution, and it's commendable, Mrs Gojkovic, I think, not an insult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35444	Thank you for apologizing to the MPs and for explaining that you wanted to commend the speeches of the MPs who spoke before you, and I feel that the Rules of Procedure have not actually been injured. You just apologized to your colleagues, and you missed a lesson at your university what the ruling majority is and who they support, and what the opposition does, but about that second time. The word is by MP Zoran Babic, a replica of Vladimir Pavic's first address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35445	Madam President, Mr. Minister, it wasn't Mr. Pavicevic's sincere intention when he spoke of lullaby. What bothers him, these are the speeches that MPs from all MPs, even from the SNS parliamentary group, read. Someone will talk out of their heads, someone will talk by reading prepared days or hours in advance, diligently, and responsibly. Not to laugh, not to call it any lullaby, but to commend all those who read the laws responsibly and thus make appropriate speeches in the National Assembly. I would like to invite my colleague Pavicevic, the promoter of academic congratulation, to become together promoters and MPs' congratulations, because if there were parliamentary congratulations, we wouldn't address each other in this way. If there were academic congratulations, now instead of conditionaling on the adoption of amendments to the vote of certain laws... I would like to join the congratulations on behalf of the SNS, directed on behalf of the parliamentary group by Mr Aleksandar Martinovic to Mr Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a great victory that it has achieved by opening borders and for all modes of transportation with the Republic of Croatia. The victory that has been achieved by diplomatic means, a victory that has been achieved in a diplomatic and civilised way, which we win by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also by the international community. If it had academic congratulations, Mr. Pavicevic would have joined those congratulations. If it had academic congratulations, it wouldn't have called for protests in front of investors, but it would have welcomed those investors on the red carpet as well as everywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35446	Time, thank you. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable National Assembly President, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic, is now a few notes I would like to make in the replica regarding the speech and Minister Vujovic and, of course, Mr Babic. First of all, it is our idea, since Mr. Babic said that Mr. Pavicevic shouldn't be writing amendments, so that he can condition the vote on the bill by adopting amendments, so what are we going to do? If we think something should be better, we prepare the amendment, we submit the amendment, so we can't say – this is ours better, and then I won't vote then, but I'll vote now. Well, he can't, gentlemen. Minister Vujovic, Mr Babić, we have proposed in the amendments certain mechanisms that should lead to an effective tax administration and a reduction of taxpayers' burden on this first bill. Based on Mr Vujovic's speech, I understood that these mechanisms could be acceptable to him. Well, let's wait for Monday and the amendment debate to see Mr. Vujovic's position, and then let's get on with the bill's proposals. Or, Mr Vujovic says – mental state of law management. And state, Mr. Vujovicu. So we wrote – based on comparative practice, to tax the base, for example. The law defines Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Latvia, Poland. We've seen that we can't do this here under this bill legally, but we can define the obligation by defining the rules on it, so that the minister can't just do it, but the minister has a duty to define the rule. I think, Minister Vujovic, that this could also be acceptable to you. With terrible attention and impatience, I am waiting to hear Monday's stance now by Minister Vujovic, but also by representatives of the ruling majority here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35448	We share the same impatience. Thank you. Respect your time. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35449	Mr. Pavicevic, and I purposely say Mr. Pavicevic would give him another chance to congratulate the government and Alexander Vukic on the extraordinary victory we have achieved by opening the borders, but in one diplomatic way, in a civilized way, gives some different arches, a double archinae. Of course every MP, not only is allowed, but he is also allowed to write amendments, but also, Mr Pavicevic, is the job of the MP and to write speeches. When you write amendments, then it's okay, and when SNS MPs write speeches, they're for you lullabys. Don't do it. Double arches are bad anywhere. On the other hand, here's an opportunity, Mr. Pavicevic, to have academic congratulations, so now to get up and join in saying, yes, we need to look at the press conference for Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic tonight at 9:00 p.m. and hear all the details of the extraordinary victory that we have achieved in this dispute in a diplomatic way, nothing caused by Belgrade, and not some protests that welcome investors. Well, imagine that anywhere in the civilized world you call for protests from those who bring billions of euros in investment, thousands and thousands of jobs, changing Belgrade's geography, changing Serbia's geography after all. Because thousands of people will find a job through that project. It is the only thing that does not correspond to those who are announcing a new nationalisation, such as today Mr. Borko Stefanovic, who are announcing some new disputes, which do not recognise the Constitutional Court of Serbia, the Constitutional Court where they passed the Constitutional Court Act, where they elected judges of the Constitutional Court. Now that it doesn't suit them or they want a different verdict, then it will also go against the independence of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35450	Time, thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35451	Thank you. Apropo of this law where there is much essential, and unfortunately we do not see the forest of trees, we are talking about some things that may be benign, that is, we have criticism for criticism and all this time of crisis around the border with Croatia we have had by colleagues across the street criticizing for criticism. Well, it's just that they show up somewhere in the media, and we have something to commend. Here, I will commend you, Mr Vujovic, and at all to the government that this introduces in this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act, which is that, in the future, foreigners will also be taxed, i.e. by foreign companies, and especially by introducing a tax attorney. It's something that's extraordinary and that's good and no one will be able to avoid paying taxes anymore without making any profit here. I especially like this in the field of energy, where we had this really amazing situation, we had this so-called. Power dealers, actually, resellers who set up e.g. a company somewhere in Great Britain, in some Virgin Islands or I don't know where. Then they buy our electricity during the summer period, resell us in winter, and during that time they transfer that same electricity to some other countries and pay no taxes to this country. So this is a good thing that's being introduced, and this is really for every possible commendation. I think it's even brave, because I don't know if you've had any pressures, whether or not the government has had any pressure, given that many of these won't answer, but this is really for every commendation and this shows that we are one serious country first of all. And by the way, I can't call this at all, and I don't want to call it something like this, first of all, the victory of one country over another. This is a victory of common sense, and I am glad that this common sense was led by Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, and this is an indication that you cannot behave savagely in the world, as Mr Milanovic did. So you have to follow some rules, some procedures, some laws, some international acts you signed because if you don't, you show, first of all, that your country is someone who doesn't respect it and therefore you fall into the eyes of investors. It is a good thing that more investors are going to Serbia and not going to Croatia, because we are still showing some sort of seriousness, and yet I say, that common sense has won today and we are the leaders of this common sense and I think that in the Balkans we have actually become dissipated, as a country, which, even though it is not even an EU member, but has proved essentially much more serious than some other EU member states. Such a law that you are now passing here, which is what you are proposing to us, which we are going to vote on, is harmonising with EU practice, but it is indeed something that is far better defined than some other countries that also have their VAT laws. Otherwise, I have to tell you, Mr. Vujovic, especially around the IRS, we've been listening to all kinds of criticism here right now, and no one's going to say that I don't remember, here, in the last maybe 10 or 15 years, the IRS has never worked better. We've never had more tax revenues. That's really something to be commended for. Not to talk about other inspections, labour inspectors, etc. So, you don't remember such a good approach, only the problem is that in the IRS, you have a shortage of people in surgery, or people in the field. We've got a lot of administration that's crazy, crazy, but we don't have people on the ground. Let's just say, only in the Vozdovac municipality, for example, where I live, you have four workers working on the ground in the IRS. There's no way they're covering the entire Vozdovac municipality, there's no way you can cover it. You can imagine what it's like in New Belgrade or in some other environments where there's just not enough people. I don't think it would be bad to think that these people that we have in the administration right now, and we have, the fact is, too many administrations, can be offered to requalified, so let's say they move on to one of those inspections, and that we're really improving the work of both the tax administrations and the labour inspection and some other inspections, which are now going and how to do it. Otherwise, the Tax Administration itself, at the time of those with whom a respected colleague was in the coalition, served to house party personnel, and nothing was working under God, because when you see a list of tycoons who hadn't paid any taxes to this country for years or controlled them, then it's clear to you as a day, that in fact this Tax Administration was doing nothing, it was more of a domestication and that it was said to exist. From the moment, actually, when the SDK was abolished, which was usually a good system, not to lie, when it was abolished, and when it was destroyed, we created an institution that, until about last year, half last year, didn't essentially do its job at all. What is now being done is really something for every commendation, with changes like this, since the very reason for the law states that we will have bigger tax revenues, of course, when you strike plus and introduce a category of tax attorneys, that there must be these larger tax revenues, this is absolutely for every praise. I say once again, I'm going to come tonight at 9:00 to watch that press conference because it beats the common sense led by Aleksandar Vukic and the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35452	Thank you. There are no more logs on the list. Does anyone, in accordance with Article 96, want to speak? No, I don't. I give my word to Minister Vujovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35453	I just wanted to be specific for a little while. Apparently, not everyone was in the O.R. during today's discussion. At one point, at the beginning of this session, I said a very clear promise, first, that the consolidated text will be available in printed, electronic and any other form, available to all taxpayers on the site immediately after the publication of the law. Secondly, what is a newspaper, we will have a single rule that will not only be published on the Ministry and Tax Administration site, but in one place will combine all forms, all instructions and, hopefully, in free electronic form, all forms that will help taxpayers to keep accounting, report taxes and everything else. As for your particular comment on Article 31, this is about the fact that if the basis for taxable goods and services is reduced or increased, then the paragraph is finally added – the minister is closer to regulating the deduction of the previous tax when changing the base. Now, that will be arranged by a single rule. Maybe that's where it could be said -- it'll be a single regulation to fix it, but I think it's meant to be. The Minister will not determine individual cases, but the method the IRS will allow to change that basis. In other words, when we do anything about the NPLs, write down values or anything else, whatever the tax is already paid for, there must be a procedure that guarantees everyone that there will be no abuse because someone can say that everything has failed and that it gives them the right to return VAT completely. So we must avoid such situations. In that sense, the methodology will define what it is, and before we had a rather rigid procedure in which a court ruling was sought in which someone had either lost something or was reduced or not saddened or was saddened to change the value. We think it's impractical. Therefore, I repeat, the laws need to define the framework, principles, goals, and everyone has to accept their share of responsibility in law enforcement, otherwise we will be covered by laws. We will have an abdication of responsibility, and this is not a good way to manage and it is not a good way for Serbia or any other country. So the laws will remain valid, but they must define the framework and principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-09-25-0.u35454	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. The continuation of the session and the debate under the amendments is at 12.00 p.m. on September 28th. That's the deal you made.
