ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39385	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 107 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39386	Thank you, Madam President. I only have one question, and I'm asking it to the Prime Minister. We are aware of the overall situation with regard to the migrant crisis, and we are aware that only 5% of refugees in the territory of Iraq, Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon is 95% of the total number of Syrian refugees, so only 5% of refugees have so far been displaced around other countries around the world, namely Europe. The situation in these countries where refugees are housed is that Syrian children have been out of school for four years, there are no hospitals and an adequate health care system. Europe still has no unique solution, we are also aware of the terrorist attacks that took place last week. The fences are being erected at the borders of the Schengen area, so Hungary has already raised the fence, Slovenia is raising the fence, but not to close the border, but, according to their officials, to slow down the reception of migrants. In Serbia, old barracks and hotels are being prepared for the reception of migrants, 30, 50 or 100,000, the question is how much will eventually be accepted, perhaps more, but the main issue, if the entire Schengen area is being fenced, so if the Slovenians raise the fence, the Hungarians have already raised, and Hungary has built a fence or wall for Romania, is Serbia ready to raise fences or barriers at its borders, if it is really necessary? So I ask the Prime Minister - will Serbia, if it is really necessary, raise fences, walls or barriers at its borders to protect its territory because Serbia is certainly unable to accept a huge number of migrants that can be expected in the coming period? I'm asking all of this because I don't see a clear strategy of the government of the Republic of Serbia and always expect a reaction, i.e. They always expect help, advice, proposal, from the European Union, so there is no clear strategy, no clear answer. The interior minister provides undefined answers and I believe that Serbia's security system is compromised, which is also proven by one of the terrorists who participated in a terrorist act in Paris going through our country, the question is whether one of the terrorists has remained in our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39387	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39388	Dear President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Economy about the fate of the Vrsak vineyards. During the summer, on several occasions, the press reported on the fate of the “Versak vineyards” that the government did not put into order of economic operators of strategic importance, which would be protected from forced payment of debts, in other words, the state released “Vrsak vineyards”. In June of this year, the Municipality of Vršac, all quoted from the media, provided the Privatisation Agency with a conclusion asking the agency to transfer state capital to Vršac municipality, with the state writing off its claim and to the municipality to find a strategic partner for the Vršač vineyards for a year. However, the Privatisation Agency has denied claims that Vrsac municipality has asked the state to grant it 72% of the capital of Vrsak vineyards and to give it a period of one year to find a strategic partner. It was then said, or written in the press, that the proposal did not come across the support of the Privatisation Agency. In August this year news again appeared that according to the court's decision, Vrstani will be protected from forced payment by creditors for a month. The pre-departure procedure initiated by the Court of Commerce in Panchev will unblock the account and enable you to continue the harvesting of grapes because, according to the Director of Vrešav vineyards, the harvest began, although they did not know whether they would have the support of the competent institutions and only thanks to the decision and understanding of the judge in Pančev to extend their life for another month, they managed to harvest grapes and not allow the birth to fail. After the end of the harvest Vrsak vineyards should go into bankruptcy and be cleared up after a certain time when it is sold as a legal person in bankruptcy. This has been imposed as the only solution since the state kicked them out of the trustee's emergency payment protection programme, although it is the majority owner of the company with 72%. Vresak vineyards, again in early November, are looking for a postponement of bankruptcy in order to prepare the plantations for the upcoming winter, as agricultural work must not suffer because of the current situation. On 13 November, the Court of Commerce in Panchev held an appointment, precisely on the subject of solving Vrsak vineyards and should have decided whether Vrsak vineyards for the second time, whether to extend their pre-war proceedings guaranteeing the protection of their accounts from forced payment of creditors or to send them into bankruptcy. In "News", Nebojsa Misic, the director of the vineyards, said it would be best for the company to extend the pre-departure procedure again for another month, so that they could provide money for the preparation of the vineyards for winter. Which basically means that some two hundred employees actually care about such a significant economic operator. In other words, the agony of this company continues and his life continues for a month, because the state does not consider it of strategic importance. So I ask the question of the Minister of Economy on behalf of the citizens of Vrsac and citizens of the entire Vojvodina - why is this company not on the list of enterprises of strategic importance, such as 17 other companies? And what is the fate of this company? Just to remind you, according to a proposal from the Ministry of Industry on the list of 17 companies whose privatisation was delayed are the Oily Kruševac factories, Car factory Priboj, HIP Petrochemija, PKP Corporation, Resavica, Jumko, Trajal Corporation, Galenika, Politika a.d, Ikar bus, RTB Bor, Holding cables Jagodina, Holding companies "First Petoletka" from Tristenik and four of its subsidiaries, then "PTT – Servo-deleers", PTT technique and PTT seals. The strategic importance of these companies is reflected, except that about 22,000 workers are employed, and many of them are far more debtors than Vrsak vineyards, although they are explained for putting them on this list that there is a real chance that they are revitalised during that period of one year. It falls into the eyes that no agricultural enterprise in the Vojvodina territory is on this list of strategically significant enterprises, as if agriculture is not a strategically significant sector to be preserved and saved for future generations. The agricultural land law will show what the government's real intentions are when it comes to agriculture. So, I repeat, I'm asking the Minister of Economy to answer us what the fate of the Vršača vineyards is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39389	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39390	Thank you, Madam President. I ask the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, that is, all the questions I raise concern the work of the Prime Minister since he is responsible and responsible for the work of this government. The first question, yesterday we passed a law whereby all the employees in the education system were given one-off aid worth seven thousand dinars, we heard that it was a order of size about one billion dinars. We also had the opportunity to hear that "Nikola Tesla" Airport has forgiven "Er Serbia" a debt of two billion euros, a two-billion-dollar pardon, which is twice as much as any sum that is directed towards helping people who work in education, i.e. that the airport, by any chance, has invested in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, would have the money to give the same assistance to all members of the MUP, the Ministry of Defence or all health workers in Serbia. We are interested in who approved that "Nikola Tesla" Airport that this kind of grant "Er Serbia" that we hear is a positive business and why this money is not directed to help those who need it, which is not exclusively and only people who work in education. The second question concerns a big deal that has raised a lot of questions in public, which has been said to be corrupt, which is the pump of the Tamnava after the floods last year. We all know that Tamnava was flooded. With the tender announced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or a dependent company, 50% of the tender was held by the deadline for execution. The deadline was very short, so no company in the world that was pumping water from London when it was flooded either from Prague or from the Netherlands reported, because it was said that the job could not be completed in that time. She received a suspicious consortium company, the job, and then the government twice approved a move-out deadline for the Tamnava pump, which practically put her in the position of those who got the job. The question arises who approved the deadline. So we want to know who he is and on what basis he has approved the move of deadlines, that is, the annexation of that contract, and what is the total cost of the pump cost of the Tamnava? Also, whether the pump company paid electricity to the EPS or whether that electricity was practically a subsidy, which was also not in the tender documentation itself. Recently, Prime Minister Vukic, whom I also ask the question, spoke in an inspired speech during the affair of secret listening to Prime Minister Vojvodina and DS President Bojan Pajtic spoke against wind parks and said someone was intent on getting rich in wind parks, that that electricity was expensive for Serbian citizens. At that time, he received applause from his representatives both in parliament and in the government, and we had the opportunity to hear that the Energy Minister Mr. Antic announced three regulations and first wind parks, or the first windmills by March of the month. Given that Prime Minister Vukic explicitly said that someone planned to take the money and that, as he likes to say, puts it in his pockets, the question arises – who is now planning from the ruling coalition to put state or national money in their pockets by building a wind farm on the same ground on which it was planned before, which the prime minister said were corrupt? Also, I want to ask another question, Prime Minister, first of all, which is why if it's true, and we claim that it is, TV Bor is not paying for electricity, and the EPS is paying even the excise charge on the delivered electricity to RTB Bora. That also damages the budget. This also damages all public sector employees. It also damages, please just a little attention, damages people who are employed both in health care, police, military, etc. These are the four questions we want to get a response from the prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39391	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39392	Thank you. Dear National Assembly Presidents, Madam Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, would ask the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance because we have not received an answer to the question that has been raised by all citizens of Serbia, especially the people of Vojvodina, and that is – how many people are employed during the government of Bojan Pajtic? Of course, the answer to this question has not been answered so far, because the answer to it is hidden by Bojan Pajtic in order not to see the situation of their haughtiness in spending the funds of Serbian citizens and the citizens of Vojvodina. But now I'm going to show you the data from the AP Vojvodina budget that just shows that arrogant employment really has been. In fact, I have before me a decision on amendments and additions to the 2006 AP Vojvodina Budget Decision, which is seen in the work on salaries and allowances for employees amounting to a billion and 658 million dinars. After four years, therefore, in 2010, the same amount is two billion and 270 million dinars. So these are salaries, additions and employees' fees, the same thing I just read, that's the amount that for 612 million dinars is higher than 2006. However, this does not stop and already in 2012 the amount went to two billion and 479 million dinars, which is as much as 821 million dinars compared to 2006. That's one arrogant thing to say, I'm free to say behavior and the spending of money on the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Vojvodina. What is interesting is that in 2014 this amount was reduced and in 2014 this amount was two billion and 359 million, while in 2015 this amount was two billion and 83 million. Now someone might think that the government of Bojan Pajtic realised that it was wrong to spend money on Serbian and Vojvodina citizens and that they realized that they had to stop doing this boastful job, but that is not why they stopped hiring. The real reason is because the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a Regulation prohibiting employment on 7 December 2013 and thus halting this arrogant employment. However, I must draw your attention that unfortunately, the government of Bojan Pajtic has found one innovative way to deceive citizens and bypass this regulation by carrying out fictitious public procurement for example, photo and recording services. Of course, I like to have papers, here are the papers, there are two contracts for public procurement. One for photographing and recording concluded with a natural person who pays this natural person a monthly fee of 25,000 dinars and another contract relating to the provision of material and financial and study-analytical services, as if they do not have enough employees for such jobs, where one also pays a natural person an amount of 20,000 dinars per month. So, if this isn't proof that they're still going on with boastful behavior and breaking the law, I really don't know what it is. Of course, I have to ask a question about value and work on work relations – is the Prime Minister of Vojvodina in his post today and why he is not at his post? My question is – how many total persons are employed at a certain and indefinite time in the organs and related persons of the AP Vojvodina, whose earnings are financed from the AP Vojvodina budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39393	Thank you. Nejko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39394	I would like to thank the President. Dear fellow MPs, my parliamentary question is asked to the director of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", and probably via his cabinet and the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Construction, and is linked to investments related to the town of Uzice. In fact, Uzice is a city that has been bypassing investors for many years. The pleasure is a city that has experienced the destiny of some big investments being started and unfinished. Uzice is a city that had the destiny of one of the extremely valuable investments, as much as 15m euros not being realised in Uzic. Under the circumstances, it was a wastewater treatment facility and with the support and assistance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I hope that the investment will still return to the city. However, what the citizens of Užica are at present most interested in is the fact that the investment started through administrative procedures and stopped after 2012. What's this about? It is two investments that are vital, both for traffic and traffic that has a frequency towards the Adriatic Sea, so from Belgrade to the Adriatic Sea, and another investment is related to local self-government, which implies traffic frequencies across the Užica towards Baja Basta and Republika Srpska. The first investment refers to the construction of an overpass in Zlakus near Užica, whose construction would achieve those conditions of traffic that are necessary, and particularly the safety of traffic participants. Given that it is a crossroads that is very dangerous for all traffic participants, and in particular it is a danger of turning towards the place of Zlakus that is insecure, both from the point of view of construction standards and from the point of view of traffic standards. The second investment relates to the construction of a turning point not far from the gas station in the town of Užica itself, according to Baji's Basta and these two investments were planned in 2012 by the Public Enterprise Roads of Serbia, provided with defined funds to start the realisation of the same investments. I ask a concrete question – will these two investments be worth attention in future planning acts, above all to the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" and the same funds that were identified while the former minister was headed by the same ministry, be now in the same amount of money defined to start the realisation of these two investments. If this is defined by the Ministry and the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", it is no doubt that not only does it get the city of Uzica and the Zlatibor County, the entire Republic of Serbia, given the traffic relationship, given everything that relates to the transport of goods and passengers to these very, very frequent traffic relations. I also expect from the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" and from the Ministry of Support for the town of Uzic, who has long waited for the state to start and implement what it has started and I hope this time it will be safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39395	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39396	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, I am asking for a notice, i.e. I have a question for the management of the Public Service "Radio Televisions of Serbia". So the question is addressed to the director and board of directors. Since I think enough time has passed since the new director took office, I thought he would do it himself, and since the Public Service says he is the property of all Serbian citizens, I am one of the citizens of Serbia and as a national representative representing Serbian citizens, I ask – how many public service employees are there, so on "Radio-Television of Serbia"? It would be a little pointless if we as owners didn't know how many employees there are in their company, so to speak. What are the salaries on "Radio-Television of Serbia", what is said from porters to directors? And we are witnessing that these days a video is being broadcast on "Serbia Radio-Television", unsigned, which implies and promotes political values that Serbian citizens should choose their representatives, not party representatives, thinking of us respected colleagues, of the Members of Parliament who are sitting here. To be clear, the values promoted in the video are represented by New Serbia and me personally and the leadership of New Serbia. We have expressed our position on the commission or working group formed in this Assembly, and it has not met for a long time, I do not know why, for changes and additions, or for reforming the political system. New Serbia has advocated that committees and MPs are elected by majority, i.e. citizens know by name and the last name they vote in the local community, in the city or in the village, or in the county. We find it so much more important and interesting to know who broadcasts the video at the Public Service, which is the owner of all citizens of Serbia, which is unsigned. So we have nothing against messages from that video, because these are also the attitudes of political New Serbia, we would just like to know who represents those attitudes, whether this video is paid and how it is already going and whether it is treated as some parties are accused of conducting political propaganda and advertising outside of the election campaign. So these questions that are simply simple, which can be answered, to get answers within 48 hours. I would ask the Director and the Management Board to answer these questions as soon as possible to the owners of the firm where they work. The speed of these answers will depend on my reaction and our parliamentary groups in the coming period in the work of this Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39397	Thank you. Since there are no more representatives, or presidents who are looking for a word on this basis, we are moving on to a joint principled single search on points 1 to 7 of the agenda. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform search on the draft law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the modification and addition of the Law on the State Crossover and Cataster, the Proposal for a Law on registration and registration of tenants indefinitely in dwellings in the property of citizens, duties and foundations, the Proposal for a Law on Commercial Boating, the Proposal for a Working Time Law on the possession of vehicles in road transport and tachographs, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Construction of an Interstate Bridge across the Drina River with accompanying facilities on the location of Ljubovija – Bratunac and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Changes and Supplements of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Swissation of Switzerland. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39398	Thank you. Your Honor, I don't know why I don't have a reminder that every day the heads of the parliamentary groups have here. I would like to suggest, in accordance with Article 97, that we extend the time of debate to 10 hours in total, according to the first position of Article 97, of this unique joint search of seven points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39399	There will be less and less printed things, immediately to inform you, because one of the MPs in your MP group suggests that for environmental protection we reduce it, because the reminders are only used to remind someone of the procedure he has in his Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure have no provisions or I cannot find it, you will find, you are much safer, much safer than I am, where it says that we share printed materials by groups. It's a lot of savings and money, so we don't print that much paper, so we're going to cut more and more. As far as your proposal is concerned, I'm putting it to a double vote. Here you go. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 117 of the total attendance of 131 MPs. I find that your proposal has not been adopted. Does Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39400	The Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, Honored Vice-Presidents, Dear MPs and MPs, are ahead of you today five laws: Law on the Law on Law of Objects, Amendments and Supplements of the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, Act on Working Time of Vehicles in Road Transport and tachographs, Law on Commercial Broding, Law on the Registration and Recording of Recipients for indefinitely in dwellings in the property of citizens, employees and foundations and two agreements. I hope that today's debate will be constructive, that, as always, we will help each other to make the laws and drafts of the law even better. I'll go first and foremost with the Law on Law of Objects. To this day and today in force, we had five laws about so-called. legalization of objects. Unfortunately, not from these laws did not produce a result, which is to reduce the number of illegally built objects, but each of the laws for consequences and resulting in an increasing number of illegally built buildings and today there are at least 1.5 million in Serbia. In order to end and resolve this issue, to solve this problem which is major, above all a problem for the citizens of Serbia themselves, but also for the state of Serbia, the Serbian Government adopted at its session the draft of this law on legislation, which should help us to legalise anything that can, or under the existing law, in the next shortest period of time. Why are we doing this? Because every third building in Serbia today is illegally built, because in this sense there is no clear entry into the cadastre, because there is no real estate market and because we want citizens to finally have paper with what they have built or live in. Of millions and a half of illegal facilities, over 85% are family homes and apartments. This means that they are not commercial objects, but they are houses and apartments that were built in the previous 18 years. Under one of the 2003 laws, illegal construction is a crime. In deciding whether we're going to go to a single cut called raising criminal charges against a million and a half Serbian citizens or find a way to solve this issue, we have defined ourselves precisely for this law. In the course of the debate, we'll probably talk about all the reasons why people were building illegally. I'll tell you what this law is all about today. In the public interest, we want to really legalize what the law can legalize. This means, among other things, to reduce the cost of legislation, because it was one of the serious problems, but also to reduce the administration and bureaucracy that existed at the moment you wanted to go according to the current but previous laws in the legalization process. The five laws gave us the result of a million-and-a-half illegally built objects, and this law assumes that the moment the law is passed, for your information, we have made sure that this law does not have a sublegal act, that this law enters into force eight days after the adoption and that at the same time we can start to enforce, or implement this law in practice, or at the same time local self-government, cities, states, go into law. The tax is the lowest possible. The state won't make any money with this law. The state, i.e. the budgets of local self-government in relation to this law and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, will generate a revenue of 10 billion dinars, which 60% will be given to local self-government to invest in the infrastructure process. But with this issue, the state will finally, above all, solve its own records in Serbia's territory and allow citizens, which is the most important objective of this law, to have their own documents. So, I'm getting drastically reduced. Up to 100 m2 of tax will be 5,000 dinars and it is the same if you built in Belgrade or another smaller or larger city, up to 200 m2 15,000 dinars, up to 300 m2 20,000 dinars, over 300 m2 50,000 dinars. When we talk about commercial facilities, which of course there are, but not in most numbers, up to 500 m2 250,000 dinars, up to 1,000 m2 half million, up to 1,500 m2 million, and over 1,500 m2 three million dinars. In addition, all those who have submitted their legalisation requirements, and there are 750,000 of them, will, at the moment the law is practically adopted, be able to go into the legal process by paying only a fee, since they have already given and submitted the documentation. The second part of citizens and legal entities who have not submitted any documents, which are also more than 750,000 dinars, according to some of our first estimates, will have to deliver a report on the founding state of the facility, which is the project bureau, or license engineers. This report is an integral part of this law and we have tried to make sure that this report contains the most basic and most important data, which is necessary to complete the legal process. In addition to the footage of the resulting situation, there is a statement by the owner of an illegally built facility, because these are illegally built objects, that he accepts the potential risk of using the facility, given this minimal technical documentation that we are asking him to do. Also, after the adoption of this law, satellite footage of the entire territory of Serbia will be made and it will be a corrective factor for a building inspection that is moving and going out on the ground. Everything that will be built after the adoption of this law, and it has been done without a building permit, will not be legal and will be destroyed. I would also like to point out to you exactly what is the subject of the law of this law, first of all, objects built without a building permit, with or without objects that are in the function of the main facility, or works under Article 145 of the Law, and then, objects that have been prescribed by this law, objects for which a claim for legalisation has been made, objects that are on the list of construction inspections, objects for which the procedure for enrolment of property rights under the Law on special terms for the registration of property rights has not been completed, objects for which the right of entry of property is entered in accordance with the Law on special conditions for the registration of property rights, objects which can be aligned with the applicable planning document in respect of purposes and neutrality, objects for which the owner provides evidence of the relevant right, a report on the found state with the emborate of geodetic works, pay the fee, this is the report that I mentioned. What is not the subject of the law of this law? First of all, the buildings built in the village until 1968, buildings with a temporary building permit, facilities used without the permission, buildings built on unfavourable soil, wetland etc. of materials which do not provide sustainability, on the surfaces of public purposes, in a protected natural or cultural good. Objects built after a satellite recording are by no means the subject of this legislation, objects for which and in the legalisation process, a rightful solution that the request is rejected, so if any of the previous laws were made. We are, of course, very open to this law and ready to, as far as we can, improve it, to do it together during today's debate, as well as through amendments. I remind you once again, the objective of this law is to finally resolve a question that hasn't been resolved in the past 18 years. The second law in front of you is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on State measure and catastrous. This law was last amended in 2009. Many things have changed since 2009 and this law should allow us to, indeed, improve our business conditions, i.e. to go into the process of reforming and reorganising the Republic Geodesy Institute itself, or Kadastra. We can't talk about construction reforms unless we have an orderly cadastre and one of the basics to really edit the cadastre, are amendments and additions to this law. What is the paper, in these changes and additions, is certainly the time, which is important for the citizens of Serbia, which is needed to get into the cadastre. It's at least 60 days nowadays. The World Bank records even 90 days, according to this law, will be seven days. In addition, this law should, of course, be brought into line with these amendments and additions to the law and to the existing Law on Planning and Construction. It is in our interest that since 1 January of this year, as you know, we are going on an electronic building permit, and in order to be able to do so, one of the conditions is to amend this law. We further fully simplify the procedure. The catastra is an important link in the chain of better business conditions and electronic building permits and everything we do in the next period and, of course, I'm not saying, every law is in line with EU regulations and directives. The third law in front of you is the Act on crew hours in road transport and tachographs. This is a new law. This law introduces working hours, breaks and rests of the crew of vehicles, driving times, all conditions concerning tachographs and tachograph cards and like vehicles in which tachographs must be installed. Also, what is a newspaper for this law is that it prescribes equal rules for the crew of vehicles carrying out international transport, as well as for vehicles carrying out transport on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We also protected by this law, namely, the rights of crew members in terms of their working hours, breaks, holidays, daily and weekly, above all, holidays. The next law in front of you is the law on commercial shipping. Let me remind you that for the last time this law, not exactly like this, was made in 1977. So, after 40 years, we're in front of you with this law. At the same time, I would like to say as an introduction that last year we brought very important system documents, and they are related to water traffic, the Water Traffic Strategy from 2015 to 2025, together with the Action Plan. Two system laws have been amended, and this law is very important because this law, among other things, introduces a driver's license. The base and public register of licensed drivers will also be established. For the first time, after 40 years, conditions are defined and conditions for access to the water transport business market are introduced. There is another law in front of you, which is the Law on registration, the recording of tenants in dwellings belonging to citizens and employees and foundations. The latest record of such apartments has been in place since 1995. The aim of this law is to collect relevant data and documents based on which we could resolve the issue of all those who are located in the dwellings of borrowings and foundations. The data that exist in 1995 is not enough, because it is not enough to determine the number of persons exercising the right, but above all to determine the size of existing apartments. We can talk when we're in principle debate, in particular, about this law. We have the data, but they are from 1995 on what is the number of dwellings owned by citizens, which is the number of dwellings owned by employees, and this law really needs to help us be the base to solve these issues. The countries around us have dealt with it in different ways, but they've all gone as we are now going, and that means data collection, records and a certain database. These are the laws ahead of you, and there are two agreements ahead of you. One of them is the Agreement with BiH regarding a very important project of the Bratunac Bridge – Love and, of course, the creation of a common border crossing. The construction ministry prepared planning documentation, through a public call was named a contractor, the bridge construction began. We have agreed this agreement in January of this year and I sincerely hope that you will vote for this agreement, as well as for these laws. Once again, I call upon you to give all your opinions and suggestions regarding each of these laws to make these laws even better. I sincerely hope, too, that you will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39401	Whether or not the committees in charge want a word. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39402	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting on the position of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. At the session he held yesterday, he discussed in principle the proposals for legal solutions on the agenda, i.e. in a discussion on the tide today. So, both those completely new laws, changes and additions, including two agreements of interstate character, both with the Council of Ministers of BiH and the one with the Swiss Federal Council. Representatives were present and more than quality, detailed all the proposed solutions. Certainly the most attention and therefore the most comprehensive discussion of the members of the Committee we addressed to the Law on the Law on the Law of Objects, and because of its importance and its content. In this regard, together with the representatives of the proposings, but also the representatives of the Committee, have expressed one common confidence and the expectation that this solution will represent a kind of final solution, some good final response to the challenge that is still current at the moment, the challenge of legalising the facilities. Furthermore, that this issue has a status of public interest for our Republic and this importance is unequivocally highlighted in the text of the law itself. Also, that the profession has been consulted, that its opinions, its views are more than respected and that consent has been reached by the profession for the solutions proposed in this law that is before us. What did the proposing representatives point out? That the proposed solution defines minimum conditions in technical and geodetic terms, as the main basis for entering the legal process under which only one solution is adopted. So, without some additional, ex post permits and a list of differences in relation to the legal solution that deals with this problem, which is still not final at the moment. Besides, there's no more charge for setting up construction land. Next, the state gave up administrative fees. What should be pointed out is that there is only a tax on law enforcement and that at the time when the proposal came, it should be kept in mind how to make a clear distinction between two main categories of facilities, between family-occupied facilities, on the one hand and residential-business facilities intended for the market, on the other hand. What was particularly discussed included the question of amounts which are good enough to be acceptable, and I would add one personal note – more than acceptable to our citizens and which read: 5,000 dinars for family-inhabited buildings, the least treated area whose area is up to 100 meters square, and then after two more categories for those of the largest over 300 square 50,000 dinars. Certainly the estimated value of the tax on residential, commercial and residential buildings intended for the market are logically higher. These questions are defined by Article 33. The law, which is also in the same place, but not less important, provides that even these lowest taxes of 5,000 dinars are not related to persons who are beneficiaries of social assistance, persons with disabilities or single parents. After the discussion, it was approached by a vote, so I would like to inform the National Assembly that members of the board of directors have strongly supported all these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39403	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39404	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Ministers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has already said in a very short opening statement what the ministry's efforts have made to make this bill, and above all I am talking about the Law on the Law of Objects is found before the MPs and this is all worth all the praise. I'm not one of the MPs who praises the efforts of some ministry, but this law of 49 members who is quite explicitly clear I must admit that he is encouraging. I am one of the MPs who will, first of all, to say that I send something in positive criticism, and first to mention what is good in the law, then let's say something that, first of all, could be corrected through amendments or certain suggestions. What's worthy of praise is that this law, you mentioned yourself, is the sixth law in a row. In the meantime, we have a million-and-a-half so-called law. illegal objects have to get in the way once. What I must point out at the very beginning of my presentation, when we mention history, is that we Members of the people who represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia at least try when we talk about laws and when we vote on laws to say that these laws must be both just and just. Yesterday when we spoke on the board and when we voted, I was one of the MPs who strongly supported this Law on Law-Law of Objects, and in that part I highlighted my little remark that I must share with both the MPs and the honourable minister, which is that you mentioned in the opening presentation of the family facility up to 100 squares. I agree that it must, but it could have been free of charge and not to pay 5,000 dinars, but it doesn't make sense for me to pay 5,000 dinars for family facilities in some country's Serbia, 300 or 500 km from Belgrade and here in downtown Belgrade, or Dedinj. I honestly have to say it's illogical. In Article 33 of the Law, you mention socially endangered groups, and that is commendable, you say that freed fees will be persons with disabilities, single parents and social assistance users. We strongly support it, but on the other hand, when we say that someone who lives on Santa or someone who lives here in downtown Belgrade and makes a commercial facility, these are commercial objects that are over 1,500 square feet of gross surface and you say there will be three million dinars of tax for these facilities. I must say, if you simply look at the price list these facilities market time over a million euros and what is for some owner of that facility, a tycoon or whatever you want, to pay a fee of 25,000 euros so that a mutilated object that can bring him a million euros on the market. This is the justice where I believe and where I have invested certain amendments that this parity should and must change. Also, you mentioned in the opening statement that the funds collected by applying this law would be divided into 60% rather than 70% by local self-government, that if the municipality on the territory of the AP Vojvodina 15% of the funds would go to AP, 15% to local self-government. I can agree with that parity, maybe it could have been 80 or 90% to go into local self-government budgets, because local self-government will do 99% of the practical things in the application of this law. Because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are watching this transmission and whose law is extremely important, we must note that when they come to local self-government in eight or nine days, when this law is applied, what should they do? First of all, all citizens need to know that they don't actually have to do anything. It's an interesting thing and everybody needs to know. So, those who have submitted to, I don't know, the end of the first month of 2014, the application for legalisation under the old law and those who are not, someone from the local self-government, from the urbanist department to knock on their door and tell them – gentlemen dear, you have to do that too. What's it got to do? Interesting things, I must ask. In the bill of law, you have provided that building inspectors, based on satellite footage, or air footage, simply have to register within 12 months, or have a record of all illegal objects on the territory of a local self-government. A few days ago we mentioned a million-and-a-half building number at the level of all Serbia, I have to tell you that yesterday's data on the Infrastructure Committee, that currently 42 local self-governments in Serbia do not have building inspectors, 42 precisely on yesterday, data from the Standing Conference of Cities and Municipalities. That's the first piece of information. Another information, this is the same data through the Standing Conference of Cities and municipalities, we have about 300 construction inspectors in Serbia who are in local self-government. You will receive information from distinguished fellow Members that a construction inspector should handle 5,000 illegal objects if there are a million and a half, and probably more than a million and a half in Serbia. Now, I'm asking any of you if you were a construction inspector in a local self-government, in a year, you could write down 5,000 objects and do everything this law requires? It's a huge job. I've proposed an amendment to make it up to 18 months, and I think it's correct. In 18 months, this job will be difficult to do, but with the effort of others in the administration, I must remind you that we are, unfortunately, still in force, the Public Sector Employment Prohibition Regulation and that we have a large number of local self-governments that are struggling with both personnel and people, and this law needs to be applied quickly. When we mentioned the work of construction inspectors, what should also be mentioned in this law are the deadlines that this law requires, that a citizen who has a house that is illegal, which is seen in satellite footage, which is very important to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will be able to see those videos for the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, and will be able to see whether or not their object is on those videos tomorrow or the day after. If the facility is located and they didn't report it for legalisation and when the building inspector visits them or someone from local self-government for a month, two, three, five, ten, and they're people's people who don't respond, the ultimate consensus for these people will be that, as far as I understand on one side, they'll have a tax on property more than four times the regular tax rate in that local self-government and that area. On the other hand, what is also important will be solutions on the destruction of the facility, but those solutions will only be legal after the judicial, or administrative dispute is over. What is also important and what is new in relation to previous laws is that all owners of illegal objects who wish to join the infrastructure whether it is electricity, water will be able to do so while the facility is in the legalisation process. What I have to ask is a member who has provided for criminal provisions, Article 41 says – with a fine of a million and a half to three million dinars, he will be punished for the commercial offence of a public undertaking, i.e. a public utility company, a company or another legal person who, upon receipt of an act that rejects or refuses to legalise the excluded, does not exclude an object from the network or infrastructure for which it is temporarily involved. I'm asking you this for the simple reason, Madam Minister, because I think this member and these great criminal provisions, which is up to three million to punish a public utility company that, by order of the municipal administration that enforces the law now joins a single facility and if it takes time. Here you've given very short time frames to shut down the facility then, we're going to be in trouble that we're going to need as municipal administrations to punish our municipal and public enterprises whose founders we are and that these are dragon penalties. That's why I think this criminal provision should be significantly smaller. I've pointed out a few other things in this law that could be a little different, and that's mostly about Article 8. Why is this article 8 important? This article 8 is important because it mentions tardiness, which is very important, means the flooring of the legalization facilities in local self-governments. Now what I want to point out in particular is that this bill on the law of law-making of illegal objects allows one object that has three floors, four floors, depending on the level of urban projects that tardiness gives for a specific area, to allow in an exceptional case two more floors. I think that's too much. We also pointed out some colleagues on the board yesterday, and I think that one floor is the maximum we can do. Why is that? We have an old historical core in Serbia, I am an example and I have brought in my municipality from which I come Topol, which has an urban project from the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1933, and where we, as local self-government, filed criminal charges against the people who oversaw. They had licenses for two floors, and then they got permission to work two levels, and then they worked three, four or more levels and completely defiled one cultural and historical continent. In order for that to stand in the way, I think one floor is quite enough. One more thing I'd like to ask you, you said in the opening statement that this law does not involve a sublegal act, that is to say a clear definition of the application of the law, which is commendable, but I think that one thing, and we also talked about it yesterday on the Infrastructure Committee, should have been mentioned. Since we've already gone out to meet and investors we've gone out in meetings and people who have illegal facilities, I think they should, in a certain way, go out to meet the local environments in which they live, which is that eventually, the ministry could define one sublegal act, or that the authority of local self-government would define how that settlement could be arranged. I, as the president of the municipality, tried to make a decision in 2005 at the local assembly in the way that it should be in my middle in Topoli to look at facades of houses, buildings, and unfortunately, someone complained to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court annulled that decision and told us in an explanation that only the Ministry of Construction could prescribe it at that time. So please, maybe this is a chance now, to do, if we've already made it possible for people to legalize their facilities for very small money or small money, to do these objects in an appropriate way, to sort them out, not to make a mockery of cities and municipalities in Serbia now, that we can leave anyone who wants to wall, and in whatever way they want to. So I ask you to simply respect this remark of mine. What I want to say is, above all, because of the citizens of Serbia, and this idea, and I absolutely support this proposal and the law, is for objects located in areas such as travel belts, it's an interesting thing, such as protected areas, it's also important. We have by Serbia a large number of objects that are, above all, in the travel belt of state, which are municipal roads. So, in order for one object to be legalized, it takes consent from the controllers of these roads. Whether he gets it or not, that's another thing now. What's also important, we have in Šumadia and Oplenac, we unfortunately have one number of objects that are illegally built on Oplenco itself and the consent that will be obtained from these, let's say, cultural and historical continents, the borrowing, that's something that will be dealt with in particular. I find the law itself very clear. Someone will always be able to say from an observation whether it was done for someone or not, I wouldn't get into it. Simply, I think we should leave the possibility, except where the slides are, except where special line infrastructure facilities are, that we can't object if it's on the gas track, or on a track that involves a water network, to be legalized. Everything else needs to be given a chance. What I still want with a few more sentences to look back on, it's the Cataster Act. When Parliament's agenda primarily included amendments and additions to the Law on Privatisation, then I told Minister Sertic that Serbia would move forward when we are here in the Assembly to resolve the issue of the Law on Land Premoir and Catastre. It is unfortunately a big problem for all local self-government, and I am glad to hear yesterday on the board of directors of the RGZ that finally and catastran will go into a modernization. The application of this law and their effectiveness and effectiveness will be measured precisely by how efficient the catastre will be and I am glad that the World Bank has recognised these efforts both by the Ministry and the GNZ, that it will support it with credit funds and that, hopefully, within a year and before, you have mentioned that the plan is to have electronic building permits since 1 January, means that we have a modern catastra, a catastra in which citizens will not go and swear every day as it works, but a catastraus where they will be able to complete all their needs in a very short time. I thank you and hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss and debate first and foremost in particular this particular detail, both I and my colleagues who have submitted the amendments, and to hope that the ministry will have an understanding of our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39405	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39406	First of all, let me thank you for your suggestions and the will to implement this law, hopefully, and above all because it is important for the citizens of Serbia and to answer a few questions. When we talk about the revenue that will come from this law, you are absolutely right and the economic team has suggested that it be 70% for local self-government, and 30% for Serbia's budget, since local self-government will really enforce the law with the ministry monitoring and then it will be so, but not by spending money on wages, but by spending the money primarily on managing infrastructure in local self-government. The second question is the question of building inspectors. All Serbian presidents and mayors have been in contact with the ministry for some time. They were ordered to step up the work of their inspections, primarily building inspections and, in spite of what the inspector will do, there is a possibility of educating a commission coming out on the ground. So, it's not just this building inspector who's supposed to show up, but all the commissions that local self-government itself, depending on the number of people and their structures, can organize. It is a very important matter of urgency, and we have accepted, we will accept one of the amendments where we allow local self-government to determine, in relation to urban zones, what is the urgency that this law will adopt in the areas and in the obligation of local self-government to bring into force within 30 days of the day the law enters into force one general act which will solve this precisely because, among other things, a lot of comments which you have already said, and as far as the questions of urgency are concerned. At the very beginning, you spoke of righteousness. This law is partly just and I fully agree with many criticisms that go in this direction, but on the other hand there was no other way to solve this problem, and when we talk about objects, I repeat once again, 85% are family houses and apartments, and everything else is commercial objects, but they are really at a smaller percentage in this structure. We wanted to quickly, cheaply and without many procedures that were obviously a problem in the previous period, because it wasn't a million and a half people boasting, but there were objective factors that conditioned a certain number of large illegally built objects to appear. I'd stay here for a while. If you have any further questions, I'll answer them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39407	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39408	Dear Madam Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People, honored guests from the Ministry and the RGZ and Mr Chairman, on behalf of myself and on behalf of the SDPS, today I would like, in particular, within this very large agenda, to express my views on probably the two most important laws of the set of laws that we are talking about today, which is, of course, the Law on the Law on the Law on Law of Objects and Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Time and Catastra. Of course, the Law of Law calls for a lot of controversy. As an architect and someone who has been involved in urbanism and projecting his entire working century, of course, I have shared views, and in line with what you just said, Madam Minister. So, this one party that, of course, has a professional rebellion, and the very name of the Law of Law also indicates that this law shows that we are practically legalizing those who have worked illegally. We're giving virtually adjudicating to those who have broken the law and we know it's been years. We know they either worked by not paying the right costs for the construction land, or when they were building, they were deafening about urban and technical conditions, so they were building or more, and sometimes they were enforcing what they were doing, what their neighbors were doing, their neighbors. It's this black side, it's this bad picture and it's this professional rebellion that every one of us has when we go into the process of passing a law like this. On the other hand, there is an important and positive desire for every professional to complete the procedure, with full awareness that it wasn't always the citizens who were guilty of breaking the law. We know that a large number of those who built without adequate conditions and building permits had to do so because the local administration did not provide appropriate planning documents, that citizens had their parcels, had the opportunity to build and solve their own housing issue, but that the appropriate administration did not enable them, did not give them the preconditions. If you can't get urban conditions for a plot to build, then you, if you want to solve your own housing issue, build it illegally. So many states must be aware of their responsibilities. On the other hand, we need to know that during the postwar period, I think that World War II, a large number of citizens were able to get apartments from their businesses or from the state administration, that these tenant rights for relatively cheap money were converted into their own property, and that, on the other hand, a number of citizens were practically paid to citizens who were favored, of course under conditions favored, to citizens who came to free or cheap housing loans remained unsettled. So, those citizens who sometimes and for a few generations participated through housing funds in investing in other people's apartments solved their housing issue with their own money. Now I'm going back to the fact that in a large number of cases, they didn't have a proper response from the state, they didn't have the right urban conditions. With full awareness that there is also a third category of those who will be appalled by this law and for which I am the only one who is not too understanding, I have no understanding at all, we have to support this law and bring it in, because it actually puts an end to illegal construction. The third category of citizens is investors who built for the market, who did not respect the laws or build without permission in locations where they had no conditions, and of course did not have their own random living needs as an ordinary citizen, or were building outside the conditions by breaking urban parameters and, of course, there was significant financial benefits. Unfortunately, this third category of citizens will also be rewarded by this law, but there, I say, is no return. All previous legalization laws had full awareness that there would be no legal solution whatsoever. This law is extremely good, because it is very comprehensive and because it has resolved several previous laws and has actually completed the procedure of all those previous laws which the procedure from different time or other technical constraints was unable to complete. The subject of the legislation are buildings that have been completed, in the sense that they have foundations, walls, pillars and, of course, are stiffed. In particular, these are facilities that are technically suitable and equipped so that they can stay in them. It is very important that these objects are built of solid material and can be considered permanent objects. On the other hand, they cannot be subject to the legislation of objects built on unstable terrain, wetland, rinks, except in cases where the applicant requests to prove that the facility is additionally stable and that it is safe to live in. It is also not possible to legalise buildings built on areas of public purpose, built in protected areas, whether they are natural age, or whether they are areas of infrastructure facilities, or whether they are zones that are protected as cultural goods. In a member who defines this area, this matter, there is one possibility, that the cottages and holiday homes may be mutilated after all. I think the law has left this definition quite wide, because it's not for every same cottage and holiday home. I think maybe there could have been some kind of restriction here. I don't claim to be a legislator, but I think there might have been something here that could have been more specific, i.e. classify those who really use it as an elementary humble cottage and those who enjoy holiday homes of several hundred squares, with garages and swimming pools. Also, Article 28 provides for the possibility that a mutilated facility which obtains the consent of public goods controllers or an organisation responsible for the protection of natural and cultural goods. I think there's a lot of widespread jurisdiction here, too, because, say, the Public Well-being Manager, that's quite imprecise. I want to tell you that, let's say, in Belgrade, we have in the municipality of the Greek Society that manages the river shores and it gives itself some authority. So it's very important to specify who's in charge of giving these consents. The law has very well and comprehensively defined the conclusion of all the unfinished procedures under previous laws. I think that some information that exists somewhere around a million and a half illegal objects, which are somewhere around 750,000, seems to me that in these statistics, that 750,000 are already in some kind of procedure so far, really needed the skills covered by this law. I want to commend the result that this has been successfully realised. The subject of the legislation is also the objects which have been resolved under the Law on special conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings, which have been built without a building permit. I think we should really be very, very careful here, because this law has given a very broad possibility of enrolling rights. I think there's a cross-section with property in principle and necessary. A list of illegally built facilities is being conducted by the local administration authority and a satellite recording is being produced at the same time, which is actually a corrective data factor that will be collected by local self-government. After the list has been completed, inspection services shall make a decision on the destruction of all illegally built buildings. I think this is important to publicize a lot, often through the media to explain to the citizens, because this is a law that will be interested in a large number of citizens, but it will also remain a large number of those whom this information will not reach, and I fear that there will be citizens who when they get a solution to the destruction of their property under this law, although it is only one step in the process of legalisation, or legalisation of that object, I think that for some it may be a shock surprise. In that sense, I think that through the media we need to explain this procedure a lot and warn citizens about possible anxiety. As regards the continuation of the procedure, after the completion of the list and after the decision on the destruction has been taken, and within seven days for the decision to be taken, that solution shall be notified to the authority issuing the legislation solution after three days. So, the precondition for adopting a legal solution is too much in line with the satellite recording, also in line with the plan's act on the area. Here I would like to thank you for your response to the amendment of Article 8, and regarding some tolerance of the flooring of the facilities. I've seen the amendments that have been submitted and I thank you for solving that in the way you just pointed out. It is also necessary to provide evidence of appropriate land law in the procedure. The member says – to provide evidence of the right on land or facility. We, as a parliamentary group, have given an amendment. I think that instead of "or" standing "i". This specifically refers to the law of the subject under the Law on special conditions for enrolment of rights because, as I just pointed out, there is a very, very large number of objects recorded. I can tell you from personal experience that in my practice I have objects that are partially recorded on other people's plots, that there's 20, 30, 50 centimetres of access to someone else's plot by satellite is not even possible to see. The entire parts of the facility on another person's plot have been recorded, and I think it is necessary, so much so that I ask you to consider that this amendment should be replaced by the link "i". As far as the scope of the project documentation is concerned, the law there was indeed extremely tolerated and pre-conceived, and everything, of course, in line with the financial opportunities of the citizens. So, the documentation requires a copy of the plan, a report on the found state of the facility, an elaborate of geodetic works, with a statement from the relevant designer or performer, of course, licensed. They declare that technical conditions for use of the facility have been met. On the basis of such complete documentation, the competent authority shall determine the fulfilment of the legal requirements and, of course, in accordance with all of the above procedures. The competent authority shall inform the owner of the facility of the missing documentation within 30 days and such complete documentation shall, in fact, be a prerequisite for issuing a legal decision. After a defined procedure, in fact, the rate of the tax is now defined. There's been a lot of talk about how much tax there should be to legalize illegal objects. I think tariffs on which up to 100 square meters is required to pay a fee of 5,000, for buildings of 100 to 200 square meters pay 15,000 dinars, and for buildings of 200 to 300 square meters it is necessary to pay 20,000 dinars. For residential and business facilities from 500 to 1,000 square meters, 250,000 dinars are paid and 500,000 dinars are paid for buildings between 500 and 1,000. I think the Ministry, really considering the possibilities of citizens, has made extremely small, low taxes and I don't think it's really going to be a citizen who won't be acceptable. After payment of the fee, the conditions for the admission of rights to property in the public book and the registration of immovable property are obtained, i.e. in the catastro. What is a newspaper, it is that the competent authority, under official duty, delivers a judicial solution to the legislation directly to the cataster and it enrolls the right of ownership on the facility. I think this is very good, knowing the bad habits of citizens and knowing our negligence. I think this is a legal solution and, in fact, the final and final resolution of the list of real estate. Therefore, on behalf of the SDP and on my own personal behalf, I want to say that I believe that this law will lead to a final, permanent solution to construction without building permits, without urban conditions, because I think that, apart from the precondition for the regulation of each country, it is also a prerequisite for the arrival of quality investors, a prerequisite for investment, investment in installation, and of course we know that it generates the development of the entire society. As for the amendments to the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastra, it is important to point out that this is one of the key laws that also encourages investment and construction, you know how often the problems with the disaster have been caused by investors leaving or not getting investors into our country. I think this bill of amendments will further introduce order in the recording of immovableity. In short, I'll just say what is being achieved by this law. I think it's very important that this law agrees with the others in the meantime. It introduces modern methods of work, primarily digitisation, provides the public with data, but at the same time provides protection of individual rights for the confidentiality of a particular type of data. With short deadlines, we come to speed up procedures. We know how much we all complain about long procedures and long waiting to solve the issues in the cataster and I am deeply convinced and knowing first the people who work and the willingness to amend the law and to comply with the other laws, I am deeply convinced that these important things will change. It is also a newspaper to introduce expert supervision of geodetic works, which is actually a right and appropriate place to do so and to implement it. So once again, I want to say that all these laws that are on the agenda today will support and vote for the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. I just want to tell you, Madam Minister, that we've given you a few amendments and I hope we'll be able to talk about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39409	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39410	Dear Members, I thank you and your MP group for their comments and for the amendments, we have seen them, we will discuss them. I want to explain a few things that you mentioned here. First of all, I guess we'll all agree that the existing laws, and there were five, were completely administrative, financial, bureaucratic, whatever, inapplicable in practice. That's why we have a million and a half illegally built objects. What's the difference between this law and all the previous laws is there's no volunteering here and there's no thinking about who was building in an illegal way whether or not they would or wouldn't get mutilated. So the state here takes matters into its own hands and the state ends this business. That's why we say that this law is in the public interest because we want to solve this issue as quickly as possible, as short as possible and as cheap as possible. What you mentioned as an ablation for those who built in an illegal way, there was another way. Another way is known. First of all, the other way is to bring down a million and a half illegally built objects, besides making a serious problem for all Serbian citizens because 85%, I said, are family houses and apartments, that would cost us, by the estimate, about ten billion euros, and third, I don't think that would be the solution, and of course, to put those people still in jail, or put them in jail. Right? Those are the current laws. Another way was, for which the government had defined itself, just to find a way to finally end this story and make this the last law in that sense. A few important notes, when you talk about where it can't be built. You said – weekend and family holiday houses, applies exclusively to national parks, which is clearly and written in a member of the law. So, in the first degree of protection, there's no building at all. We showed it by having the Ministry in the previous period, let's say the Peruvian, or so on, set off and brought down such weekends of houses and family holiday homes. This term “week” and “family holiday houses” was taken from the Nature Protection Act, a member of 35, where exactly that term stands, so we used and put it into these laws because of national parks. What is allowed is allowed in the second degree of protection just for the weekend and family homes. So we're talking about national parks again. Let's say you have an example, I'm going to give one of the examples - Lake Gružan. The second degree of protection at Lake Gružan is moving a mile from Lake Gružan. We thought that over a mile away, we could allow weekends and family holiday homes to exist. A completely different story is this when you talk about controllers, it cannot possibly be the society of this or that, in Belgrade's territory, it can only be "Belgrade" and "Serbia" but also in relation to the Water Act, which precisely defines what is the water flow protection belt where there is no and never can be, according to the previous or the present, still valid, and by this law to be built, and that is that the water flow protection belt is 10 and 50 meters from the water stream, respectively. And there is no law that can be interpreted in a different way. Let me explain that part. The second section refers to those who have submitted legalisation documents under these laws and for them practically the only obligation in the next period is, as I said, paying taxes and implementing the legislation, and the other and these 800,000 for which the list will be practically made. We expect that the construction inspection will now list these about 800,000 new objects. You mentioned satellite footage and resolution. The resolution of our satellite footage for the cities will be 30 cm. We will make sure that in the best possible way through this law, we resolve this issue so that there are no mistakes. You just set one example. Also, to the public, when we talk about low-cost taxes, but let's just say, how many times are low. If we're talking about family houses and apartments, they're up to 500 times low, but when we talk about commercial facilities, they're 30 times less than they were under the previous laws. So we managed to make this law practically possible, that we could realize it, and everyone could stand it and finally, as I said, end this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39411	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Slobodan Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39412	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Minister, the Honorable Members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like, first of all, to talk about all the laws that are proposed today, because I think that indeed none of us in this Assembly, I will apologize to someone who thinks that they can be both professional and competent and that in a short time talk about all the proposed laws, because I will read about what the agenda does, and you will see from my statement that I will not touch all the laws, because it is simply not possible for anyone to prepare and seriously evaluate within the short period that we are given, all of these draft laws. We are talking today, and this is obviously the biggest and most important topic today, and this is the Bill on Law on the Law on Law on Objects, and then we have a bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, a bill on the registration and registration of tenants indefinitely in dwellings in the property of citizens, employees and foundations. As far as these three laws are concerned, I wouldn't mind if the debate were really united, and I think it's also acceptable to talk about them within one item of the agenda. But, please, what does today's agenda, or these first three laws I've read, have to do with the commercial shipping bill? Proposal for a code on crew working hours in road transport and tachographs. And then an international agreement, then a confirmation of the Air Traffic Protocol. Why am I saying this? Not out of some evil intention and without intent to obstruct the work of a government or assembly that wants to work quickly, but simply, parliament serves to give a really critical opinion and to submit amendments and to have time to influence the laws. In this way, with this number of laws, indeed this debate cannot be enough quality, or it will be good quality for those laws that are our priority, and obviously, in the presentation of all of us, and mine that follows, will be law enforcement, or what was once called the Law on Legalization. The problem of legalisation, or by a new term, when translated into Serbian – laws, is long-term. This problem exists before World War II, it existed during socialism, it existed during Milosevic, our government, and of course your authorities. And, that problem, not to be solved with all the laws, this problem is growing. As the minister said, today we have a million-and-a-half objects that are subject to legalization, believe me, until this law is passed and this satellite footage is recorded by the law will probably be another 20,000 because now people are building intensively listening to this debate because they are using the opportunity to once again apply a new law on legalisation, or legislation. That no government was successful, I think it's evidence, that it's only during the rule of the SNS but another law or even a third if we're talking about the famous Great Law, about entering a special right of property that doesn't give results, but I do, and that's why I've come to the floor, because I believe this law will be, as my esteemed colleague earlier said, that final law that will solve the problems. In that sense, I have certain suggestions that I'm not sure you'll adopt, but I think if we adopt them, we would really open up the possibility of saying that this law will be a law that will solve the legalisation problem forever, if I agree with you Madam Minister, that arresting a million and a half people is certainly not a solution nor can solve this problem. What I can say from this law is that, as usual, the laws that come out of your portfolio are solid laws, pretty much with good solutions, but there's always a problem that can really cast a shadow on the very text of the law and despite the good intentions and to use that old saying - the path to hell is paved by good intentions, that everything you've done, the great effort that has been put into these laws, can be completely unthinked and that we'll meet in two, three years in this assembly or that some new government in four, five years, whenever, sit back and talk about legislation, about legalisation, there will be only five old laws, but there will be six, seven, or who knows how many amendments and the addition of the law. We have prepared a number of amendments, about twenty, you will see, of course we will talk about it when they come to the agenda of the amendment, but I have to say three essential things that are formulated through amendments, and I think it is a key problem that this law will succeed in being what the legislator is, and what we, as the MPs all want, get the effect, or citizens, after the adoption of this law. What's most important to me, I'm going to take the legal text to talk about him, because this is, I mean the point where all the previous laws have fallen and why they haven't been successful. What's this about? We're being listened to by the citizens now and they're thinking, okay, they've been walling for the last hundred years without permission, they'll probably still be built. Why? There will always be some new law and he will do the worst thing he can do, except, let me say, I welcome the simplification of the procedure, it is not at all disputed in the law, and it will extend the legalisation deadline or in the spirit of the new law. In your draft law there was one thing I liked, but unfortunately it changed, which is that you said that you could mutilate objects according to satellite footage somewhere from June 2015, correct me if I'm wrong. Now comes the final text of the law, the bill and that deadline is moving to an undefined deadline of 2015. So, there's going to be a satellite shoot of Serbia. I agree, it's a great thing satellite recording, you can check if there's a wall object, whether or not there's a wall, that there's no abuse, corruption and so on, but as long as we don't record it for the next two weeks, I'm now some entrepreneur who's a fraud I'd be going to build today, I'd like to debate the foundations and say -- well, it's wonderfully appeared to me in the video and that other part of the thing I want to talk about in the amount of compensation, and I'm getting myself the benefit not wrong, but the legal one in millions of things, and the state is damaging that way. What's my suggestion? I don't just want to criticize, I suggest, if you really want to draw the line that this law is successful, that you don't give new deadlines for legalization. The deadline shall be fixed by the deadline set out in the former draft law which this Government or the previous one which the SNS has made most. Yeah, I really don't mind if you do, I'm telling you that this law has a chance to succeed. Especially this from the text of the law. It says – the application and application for legalisation to be submitted by 29 January 2014 is considered a requirement within the meaning of this law. I suggest that you leave this deadline in the law and that there is no other piece that says - is also an object that has not been applied for legalisation in accordance with the previously applicable law which has been regulated legalisation of the facility, which is visible on the satellite footage of the territory of the Republic of Serbia since 2015. Put it back in 2014. So, anyone who started to wall, over the past year, this favored, investors who had seriously invested, obtained building permits, according to the new Law on Planning and Construction, simply turned out stupid. Here, I'll give you an example, and I'll talk about it in more detail later. In Belgrade, the average land compensation is 100 euros. We're talking about a 2,000-square facility, that's about 200 thousand euros. Under the bill, I'm talking, of course, about the facilities planned for sale, it will be paid up to three million dinars, which is, correct me, 25 thousand euros. So someone made 175 thousand euros and started building the wall in the last year. I'm talking about objects starting in 1986 that aren't finished, I don't mind, because otherwise probably from some problems we'd never be finished. So the fundamental observation of my, or our parliamentary groups on this law is this date. Put this date into your law, i.e. from the previous law, do not give a new deadline for legalization. This law can really work. As for the other things now, of course, we are MPs, we must also deal with politics. I ask you to explain Article 5 to me. Article 5 really sounds great, and I would support it if there was not one small comma in Article 5, or brackets, and I disagree with you, Madam Minister, as you said. You said, "You can't go in the first zone, you can go in the second zone, you can't go in the first zone." First of all, I'm saying it can't be in the first zone or the second zone, but I have to read it for the citizens and tell me, I've submitted the amendment, I'm allowing you to be prepared to adopt the amendment. This is about objects that cannot be subject to legislation, which is quite correct and such objects must exist. It says - built on land unsuitable for construction, slides, marshland; quite fine. Building, reconstructed material that provides sustainability; okay. Built on surfaces of public purpose, i.e. land planned for the construction of buildings for public purposes; perfect. That's what it's supposed to say. And now - built in the first and second stages of the protection of natural goods, i.e. the protection of cultural goods; absolutely so it should be and it is a normal country. But then, in the middle of this sentence, a point appears, or a bracket, I apologize, which says – except for the cottage and other family facilities. So, this parentheses, the family holiday houses, allows for construction both in the first and second stages of protection. Maybe you thought you were submitting the amendment. In my politics, I don't like to deal with personal examples now to call a high-ranking state official who may or may not have a cottage, it's his personal matter and the matter of the government whether or not he will apply the law. But because of the citizens of Serbia, I'm going to simplify what it might look like in practice. Here, I decide to build a house in Calemegdan. You have a wonderful place out there in front of the fort, I'm out of the building. It's under the highest protection of cultural goods. I apply for legalization, you say – crash; I say – no, it's my cottage. The weekend can do it. If the cottage's okay, what's my condition to legalize it? Here it says – exclusively from the provision of Article 1, paragraphs 3 and 4; these are the points - the competent authority will issue a solution to the legislation if the procedure provides for consent of public goods managers. What does that look like? So we as a government, some future power, now we're not, set up a museum director in Calemegdan, he tells me that consent, I see, my God, here I have a cottage in Calemegdan. Please don't leave room for such precedents, no matter who. We have submitted an amendment that erases all exceptions. I ask you to have understanding, first of all, because of you. This will hit the government most, bring down SNS ratings and coalition partners, but if you adopt the amendment, that's the second item that, in my opinion, is extremely important and why I'm going to say that this law is really good and worth applying. The third thing in law, so I'm not going into technical matters, I repeat, the law is well written, don't have any dilemma at all, and I think it's better than the previous. Third thing, everyone said before me, so I'm just gonna touch her for a little while. We're talking about legalising tariffs and it's done, and I also realize that your amounts shouldn't be big, people don't have money, there's a crisis and there are certain amounts that are, in my opinion, quite acceptable, but we're talking about housing up to 300 square meters, is it 50, 100, 150 and you said well 85% of these objects are private houses in Serbia. I've heard here a suggestion that it's different whether it's on Dedinj, whether it's in Surdulica, because probably the ministry put in a unique proposal because it's very difficult to make so many classes and it's not even that big a problem. I'm plagued by a second attitude where you say objects are intended for the market, they're objects of 500 squares per second. I'll give you a proposal now. These facilities need to be legalized, so 500, 1000, 1500, 2000 square meters, we're talking about serious business. Someone here was saying, that's hundreds of thousands of euros when you build an apartment, sell it, etc. Who does this job should respect the law. He needs to get a building permit because he's got lawyers, he's got a invoice, he's got connections, he can get a building permit, but my God, he won't pay fees and contributions to construction land. My proposal is to not increase and bid these amounts, but to put 50% of the values that the investor would normally have to pay for compensation or contributions to building land, I think it's very fair. So, you're giving a discount of another 50%, and you've already given the Planning Act, which is perfectly fine, and I fully support, and that way you'll make legalization possible, you'll have an interest, but you won't put into such a more unfavourable position the honest investor who pays everything. So to repeat once again, at a facility of 5,000 squares, 500 000 euros are contributions. The gentleman who built it illegally will pay 25,000 euros. For 475 thousand euros, I think it's pointless for the state to be damaged. Of course, I'm talking about illegal objects that need legalizing, but let's give a 50% discount. Make it 50% of that fee, and then it's fair, and that way you'll devise the wild construction of big investors. Now if I were going to build something on a wild meadow and say, "Here, that's that record, that's legalization, please don't pay for the contributions." I think it's really fair for everyone to be the same rules of the game. These three things, Madam Minister, are essential to me. If you have understanding and you can adopt amendments, then I'm telling you that I have no problem voting for these laws. There are a number of other amendments, but they're technical, and I'm going to repeat, no offense, these are solid texts of the law, but with these three, in my opinion, very serious failures. As far as basic laws are concerned, I'm going to make a short reference to the Cataster Act. I think you've done one great thing here, not only to criticise and that the laws are not right, it's to move the second degree by appeal, meaning the catastra solution to the Department of the Ministry. We all know either anyone who's ever had anything to do with the cathedral or has had the chance to complain that the Ministry doesn't decide by age on the number of cases. On the other hand, I think it was an absurd situation for one ministry to decide by appeal of all the catastres' solutions, each municipality has its own cadastre, right, and that's thousands and thousands of cases, and I think that the deadline for decision-making under a year has never been, and everyone knows it well. I really welcome this decision, and I think it's an excellent solution and a solid text of law. Just one suggestion or remark, as you wish, I haven't noticed, correct me if I'm wrong, that within the law there's a deadline for deciding the Institute in the second degree. We've given the amendment, we suggest that it be 30 days. I think it's quite appropriate because we're talking about something that's exactly the same as the administrative dispute. Please consider the amendment because what will happen? The Bureau certainly doesn't have enough lawyers right now, it has to hire them, you have to strengthen your capacities, but if you can't get a deadline to turn the same situation into the Ministry so that for a year or two days you don't decide on a disaster, and you know what's essential to any investor or owner. If you can't carry out a complete procedure and register, it simply all stands because no single dinar will invest today unless there's legal certainty, or if you don't get a copy of the cadastre that you own and in connection with the recording of the mortgage, the sale of immovable property, etc. Please consider including that law, I say, in that case, if they obeyed us, it would be a solid law. Now, in the end, this third law that I was talking about, which I think is also very important, is the Law on recording what today's protected tenants were, and what once were tenants' rights. My first question, I fully support it, and it has to be done, and I'm sorry it wasn't done in 1990. Why have we waited 25 years to sign up? But why are you doing this in law form? Wasn't the government's regulation enough to write down tenant rights? My second dilemma is, the law stipulates that you are making a public ad to report tenant rights owners, excuse me, yes, tenant rights, or lease indefinitely. Are they in the country? Are they abroad? I didn't under the law see the obligation that the municipalities themselves had to check. So, the proposal is to supplement the law, to, in addition to a public ad that is fine, and to municipalities are given the obligation, i.e. specifically to public defenders to make a list, because it's probably the law's interest, if we're already working in law form, to have one final list. What's missing, and I guess why did you do it, so I won't criticize you, what about this when you sign up? The draft law suggested that the state would help the owners of housing rights, of course, we are talking about some, probably, billions of euros, so it was removed from the law. I agree not to be in the law, but I would ask the Resort Ministry that, when this law is signed, to propose some sort of solution for the owners of tenants, let them be as many as you predict, even if it is said to the citizens that the state is unable to pay, because these are neither these nor the previous governments, these are mistakes from 1945 to, I don't know what year, until 1990, until it was possible to do so. So, but citizens have the right to know, it's not a small number of citizens who have been waiting for decades of their rights, I'm talking about the owners of apartments where there's someone like a protected tenant, or the owner of a tenant's rights. It's simple for citizens to know what they are, whether they're counting on that apartment or not to count on it in some future, but I think this, I'd welcome this idea, but I'm saying that this would be complete, overall and successful, and the ministry has to come up with some solution that after a list of these apartments, in which direction the government, the state will continue to act, because this is of course not a topic for one government, but for more governments to come. As for the other laws, I apologize, but I really wasn't able to prepare myself on such short notice. My colleagues will talk, but I still appeal, don't give us this many laws. Only one of those, which I'm not talking about, which sounds very irrelevant, has 800 members, and certainly refers seriously to the state, but let's not talk about myself, but that no one in the Assembly is talking about this law, except for the minister's lady in her relatively brief statement. So, I'm asking you to just give us time in the future, because it's definitely matter that also depends on people's lives, jobs, etc. In the end, I don't want to be too long, I think I've been clear and concise enough. I welcome the Ministry's efforts. If there is a willingness to consider these three fundamental remarks, to adopt, I will welcome and, I say once again, I will not have a problem with voting for the laws, but don't in anything that's good, something that promises, which offers solutions, that with three, four small mistakes, you will reason out the whole effort and in fact put us in a position in a few years, us or some other MPs, to discuss the Law of Law again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39413	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39414	Thank you for your comments. Let me explain one more time. This article of 33 that you mentioned, about the weekend and the family holiday houses, we'll explain, or we'll add, if there's anything else, applies exclusively to the second degree of protection, there's nothing in the first. The first degree of protection, these are natural goods, so we want to keep it, and in the second degree of protection nothing else can be built except those weekend houses. So these are natural and national parks. I've set an example of Lake Gružan and a mile from the second degree of protection. I think that might be the most important thing. And also, you know, according to current estimates, to move forward and continue this course to legalize under the existing law, it's estimated that this process could not be completed without further increasing illegally built objects for at least 20-25 years. This is a law that was extorted, in a way, so that we could really solve this problem. Also, another important part, related to this Law of Recording. Why didn't we pass the law and why didn't we bring the regulation? First of all, because we did not have the authority to pass the regulation, since there is no other law that gives us the opportunity to make a regulation. The issue of solving these apartments in general, when we make the records, we get documents, etc., of course, that we have to solve and the Housing Act will define the way we're going to solve it. Currently, the total number of such tenants is 3,979 according to what we have since 1995. That means we don't have the right records yet. Of course, there are most in Novi Sad and Belgrade. I think I'd be here for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39415	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39416	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we agree on two things. The first thing is that we absolutely have to go into solving illegal construction and that it is one of Serbia's priority problems both for its economic and social development. We also agree that all those citizens who have built for their living needs and who have small houses from 60 to 100 square meters in which they live and that these are the only properties they have, that they should have the most favourable position in this process. These are the only things we agree on. We disagree on the way you suggest that these issues be resolved. Since we're talking in principle today, I'm going to speak in principle, quoting certain provisions, and when we talk about details, about amendments, then we're going to get a lot more into detail. But this law is one slap to all those citizens and all those investors who have built or are building under the law today. This law has three additional main faults. He is unfair, he will be difficult to apply and he contains a lot of space for corruption, because it contains a lot of variations of discretionary free spaces. I'm going to say very specifically what I think about each of these individual defects that I've listed. First of all, this law is unfair because it does not make a sufficient distinction between this category of population whose objects are illegally built the most. We agreed that there were about 80% of them and that they were people who built for various reasons illegally and that they had houses, which solved their housing problem. That problem has to be solved. Their position in this process of legalisation or legislation, whatever you want us to call it, although it's not clear why it's legal now, should be the most favourable. There is an excuse that these taxes are so small and that they are actually given access to this process. But there is no big difference compared to those who illegally built housing and other business facilities for the market. So the tax difference is very small. Let us take the next example. If you have a single investor building in the first zone in Belgrade today, he'll probably have to pay a minimum of about 100,000 euros, with a building permit, as a fee for using building land, if I know that well, minimum. But if such an object is now in the process of legislation, it will have to pay only 4,500 euros. It's a huge inequality between different, obviously, groups of investors. The question arises – why and for whose interest do we come out in this way to meet individual investors? First, it is also not fair that the same fees apply to all zones, to all cities. It is certain that if someone builds an illegal thousand squares, I will say again in the first zone in Belgrade, when they get the law, they will gain enormous value. So, it will practically be put in the pocket of several tens of thousands of euros, and one that such a property or object of the wall in Leskovec or Svrlig will, of course, gain much less value by law. It's something that citizens need to understand, that it's about one big inequality in the same category of people. Secondly, this law will be difficult to apply, and here's why. Most of the responsibility in applying this law falls on local self-government, which is understandable. But on the other hand, you yourself say that the application of this law does not require any additional budgetary resources. Yesterday we heard Mrs. Udovici, who says she's going to cut out for local self-government. How does the government think that local self-government at the current state of human resources and small budgets will manage to do this job in such a short time? I'm giving you an example. Užica has submitted 12,000 legalisation requests, with an estimated at least 7,000 more illegally raised objects, for which the application has not been filed. There are two building inspectors in Uzic. This means that in a year each of them will have to solve, consider, sign 10,000 cases. In Kragujevac, there were legal requirements for 20,000. The estimate is that there are 10,000 more and three more building inspectors. You've provided great punishments in criminal provisions for building inspectors. You said, Minister, there was a possibility of education commissions. That's true and that's a good solution, but who's gonna make those commissions? Well, they're not professional people, if they don't understand that job. Where do professional people come from when there aren't enough employees in local self-government? We know that since the first Law on Legalization, it has been a major criticism, that our local self-government has no capacity to carry out such a big deal, and we're not talking about the assessment that there are about 40 municipalities where construction inspectors don't have at all. So the government will end up washing their hands. It's important to make some political points now. The culprit will be sought after. It will, of course, come to an extension, as always, because deadlines are not set in an extremely rational and realistic way. Another important thing, this law also causes damage to local self-government and local communities in general, including citizens of Serbia, because it is actually asking the question – how will the construction of infrastructure with such reduced taxes be financed, especially with investors working on market facilities? Who's going to pay for the introduction of sewers, plumbing and all other infrastructure standards, when this is how we cut fees for it? Our concern is that urban chaos and the disorder of our cities will continue, even these small taxes are allocated so that 70% will belong to local self-government and to the republican budget 30%. We also foresee the very great difficulties and in collecting the documentation needed for the legislation. Article 18 determines what the report on the situation is doing. It will be an embodies of geodetic works, a recording of the state of play, and must contain a statement by the responsible designer or responsible contractor that the facility meets the basic requirements regarding capacity and stability. First, who will be those responsible contractors? Who will determine them, and what will be the additional cost for the citizens to pay for these elaborates and these reports by the contractors, or responsible designers? I read somewhere in the media that it counts as 9,000 dinars. I really don't believe that any of these professional people, if we count that professional people will be doing these reports, because they have to bear responsibility for what they're going to sign, and that responsibility is very large in this case, because they have to say that something was built 20 years ago in accordance with standards that were then in force, etc. The second part of this article 18 says the report will also have to contain a statement by the owner to accept the potential risk of using the facility. Please, what does the owner's statement mean? Well, of course he'll make that statement that he takes the risk of using the facility, if it's a public purpose facility. These are very dangerous things. Whether it also assumes responsibility for compensation for damages that can arise from such use of the facility. This, colleagues and colleagues, puts people's lives at risk and without a serious out-of-state project and evidence of safety, such facilities should not be used. The third main objection to this law is that it is full of arbitraryness and this amount of arbitraryness opens up an awful lot of space for the discretionary authority of all those who will participate in this process of legislation, but a large amount of discretionary powers means what? It means only new corruption. That's very visible. Here, for example, who does it seem to do when determining this flooring that it can be maximumly recognised, or legalized four floors or three floors and a attic? Why so much? Why isn't it three floors or two floors or a attic? Why isn't it six floors? I can see that we're going to accept some amendments for zones in different local self-governments, but this isn't meant and directed to those who built residential buildings for their apartment. These are buildings, these are market facilities. So this seems to some investors who are going to get a huge fortune based on this, and our cities are still going to look ruined and messy and without any plan, but probably someone needed to meet these provisions, and that's the question now, we'll see in practice, who's going to be those lucky ones? We have already talked about this Article item 5 item 1 item 4 of the house law and other family facilities. Our media are already quite concerned with the speculation for which this provision is an integral part of the law, but the fact that it seems extremely arbitrary as if it was intended for a very, very narrow circle of people. These are the very great dangers of house and cottage law in these areas, and you all know it. We've had cases of water pollution and everything else, and that's something that poses a huge risk to human health and life. It's our view that every citizen who doesn't have a second solution to the housing needs to get legislation on the most favourable terms and I said that we agree with the government's proposal, but what if someone has five houses that want to cut 60 to 100 squares, is he going to pay the same tax of 5,000 dinars for every house, is that a fair solution? Our belief is that it isn't. It's not a social case. This is no solution to the housing problem of our citizens. The legalization discount should only be for those who resolve their housing issue and their family's housing issue in general and who have no other housing-like property. This is the only way to avoid being wronged, and one who cannot pay a fee that, in our opinion, must be greater for investors and those who are building for the market, who have built housing or business facilities for the market, then such a fee should be paid over a long period of time or, in the end, if they can't pay it, that fee or tax should be entered as a burden to be paid on sale, in the succession or alienation of immobility. In the end, I'd like to say one more thing. It is obvious that this is about one pre-election law that, when we look at it, about 80% are citizens who have illegally built houses for their dwellings, it is about a million and 200,000 people, and out of these millions and a half of illegally built objects in Serbia, it is very clear that these calculations are made. What's important is that we solve the problem of illegal construction, because illegal construction destroys every idea of the rule of law in this country. Until we set up a system that will indeed be fair in this process of legislation and legalisation, which will also prevent corruption, which will prevent the discretionary powers that this law provides for, I fear that citizens will continue to count on the deadlines to be extended by any new law and that the issue of regulation of our real estate market and other objectives will actually be unfulfilled. So, to repeat, we find this law unfair, we find it difficult to apply, we think it creates a lot of space for new corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39417	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39418	Thank you for your comments. I'm a little surprised, I know you're a lawyer, so I believe you can read and interpret the law very well, so I'll start with an insinuation related to one member of the law, 33, and related to the weekend of the house, etc. One is the story of national parks, another is the story of water streams, and there is no construction in either case. Also, when you say that someone is going out or that this is some political law, a pre-election law, no, this is a law that needs to be dealt with by a million and a half illegally built objects that were not created during the rule of the SNS, but you know it very well, in the previous 18 years, and especially in the 2000s and so on. With this law, we will resolve the issue of illegally built objects that you have allowed your laws to be illegally built objects. People have to get their ownership papers, the problem has to be solved, and this is not the law of some future potentially illegally built objects, because they won't be. There is no more reason not to get a building permit in Serbia with your project within a month, and from January 1st and electronically. So there won't be any problems, but we have to solve the problem, like I said, a million and a half illegally built objects. When you talk about maybe it's an introduction, as you said, in corruption, I really think that you as a parliamentary group should at least talk about it, because I totally agree with you. There has been a lot of corruption in the previous period, especially since 2000, in the area of construction. As a result, none of your laws first allowed building permits to be obtained on time, so people worked and built illegally because they waited for years, and on the other hand, all the laws you passed to the Serbian parliament, which concerned the legalisation process, only increased the number of illegally built objects, instead of reducing them. We'll do it there. This law will solve it. This law is applicable. It was made precisely on the basis of a complete conversation and a complete state of affairs with those who had built illegally, because there were many objective factors that conditioned it to be a large number of illegally built objects. Secondly, when you talk about this paperwork, you mentioned the documentation, it'll be done by the project bureaus. That file with that statement, yes, it is, it's a very important statement. These are people who already live in their family homes and apartments. Since we are shortening the procedure, since we are delivering a report on the state of play, it is natural that they should sign a declaration of possible future damage. So, the next thing you mentioned, which was completely illogical to me, is this tardiness. You're connecting it to doing someone a favor. I repeat again -- who have you been doing services to for the past 10 years when you allowed pastures to be transferred to construction plots, when you allowed members of your parliamentary group to build and buy on those pastures, then translated into building land? So these are the services you've been doing. We need to figure it out now. If you think, as a parliamentary group, that we should tear down a million and a half illegally built objects, I disagree. We don't have to take them down. We need to finish, we need to get them in line, and we need to legalize them, and we need to have the opportunity to, above all, know what we have in Serbia's territory. After that, that we have quite certain income from the property tax that is now to be paid, but it was not in the previous period and that we have finally finished the story with someone moving into the process at all without having a building permit. You said this law was unfair. The difference in taxes, as far as taxis are concerned, the difference in taxes is 30 to 500 times, 500 times for citizens and family homes, so for those living in their apartments and family homes, it's 30 times smaller for commercial facilities. When you say that they are doing services to investors, etc., these investors have sold their apartments, in these apartments living people who should now and on them it is understood that they should carry out the legalisation process although, of course, you and I know that the investor should have done it. So this law allows us to briefly and quickly resolve the issue of illegally built objects, I repeat those that have been built over the past 10 years. Local self-government and building inspectors, so the real question might be for you. Why aren't there any building inspectors in the last 10 years in local self-government? Why did it all seem to be gone? Because it was great that local self-governments don't have building inspectors who won't go out in the field and who won't react, react, and that's why we have a million-and-a-half illegal buildings. The revenues from this bill, 70% go to local self-government. Of this money, local self-government is obliged to, right now, invest in infrastructure, or to raise that infrastructure that you mentioned, when you mention, among other things, the plumbing, the sewerage, etc., in most local self-government, it already exists, but regardless of the income of this law goes to much of the local self-government, because we are aware that local self-government is the one that will realize this law, of course along with the Ministry. I have to tell you, local self-government needs to work. If the law on planning and construction has come to life and if the law on planning and construction today is a success, in the sense that we already have an increase in the number of works carried out by 70% in September compared to the previous September, then believe this law too. Once again, let me point out, not to be confused, this is the legal one that solves the screw-ups of the previous period, not the mess of one month, one year, but the screw-ups that were especially visible from 2000 to here. This is the last law that applies to law enforcement, this law differs from any previous law, because there is no volunteering, this law is being implemented by the state and the state will solve those problems, which you first have to admit, no matter how much you don't like to go back to what you did, which, first of all, you from the DS created in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39419	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39420	I thank you for your answers, but you have failed to convince me that Article 5 of Item 1(4) is a good solution. I wasn't talking about cottages and other family facilities, in accumulating lakes, and national parks, national parks, I didn't even mention it, so I don't know why you told me that. I was talking, right now, about the first and second degree of protection of natural good. So this is, this seems to be done for a small circle of people. Why are the cottages only put in that category? So we think they should be thrown out of there. Second, as far as apartment owners are concerned. Well, they'll pay for the smallest cab, because the largest number of these people, they actually have small apartments, they won't pay the fee, I guess, for the entire apartment building. So don't mix two things, so all those who live in their homes or apartments will pay, in fact, that have 60 to 100 square meters minimum tax. It's okay, we don't criticise it, but we say what's allowed by law that investors who built an illegal facility, in expensive urban areas, will get a minimum price bill and that it's unfair, compared to investors who are building under the law today, or built under the law, and you can't convince me that it's not true. So, the tax is very small. Building inspectors. You're saying it's our responsibility. Madam Minister, you've been in power for nearly four years, as long as you've been preparing this bill, so you've had to count on the capacities that exist now in local self-government, why you haven't raised them in the past four years, when you've planned this law, and in 2013, you've also passed a law that was intended for reduced illegal construction. It was also said then that it would solve all the problems. It wasn't just DS and her government. All governments passed laws on legalization, so in 2013, it was your responsibility, you were a majority partner in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39421	The word has a National MP, Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39422	The Honorable Chairman, honourable Minister Mihajlovic and fellow MPs, I will be very brief because right now Minister Mihajlovic has said what I wanted to point out. My colleagues will discuss the details later, but which is why the PUPS parliamentary group will support this law is precisely that it is no longer a law of volunteering, but a law that will be implemented by the state and because it is finally time that, after five laws relating to legalisation, we finally get to one that will be able to finish the job in a short time, that the state will start charging taxes. In fact, that's the essence of the whole story, that this tax is full of the budget, and we're going to charge our taxes as much as is appropriate now. I watched something and I see that Belgrade has 140,000 illegal facilities, Novi Sad 37,000, Nis 30,000, so 1,300,000 buildings are located in Serbia and we all know that Belgrade is 50% of the economy. It's a neighborhood that doesn't even have a lot of money, we can't have big taxes there. These people need to be able to legalize these facilities. Of course there'll be a lot of so-called. injustices, that in Belgrade there will remain many now, such legalized buildings of large investors, but that is simply one of the things that must happen in this country and finally draw a line. Legalization has been the nightmare of all governments since 2000, maybe even before 1997, and I think it's time to get it sorted out. How much is that gonna cost? It's gonna cost. The people must finally know what his obligation is, what to pay. Who takes responsibility for everything? They take over all those who built as they built, if they think they're legalizing their facilities, and they're not high-quality, they'll have to bear their own responsibility. The PUPS parliamentary group will support these laws, because it is really necessary to finally put an end to it. 1.500,000 is a truly disastrous number. I was surprised when I saw that much, we have 4,500 objects in general in the state, and there are 7,000,000 inhabitants, but that's a little bit in our mentality. We've got our Little Wet Lug or the Great Wet Lug, as it's already called, he's had thousands of illegal objects in the 1990s, so let's put it into order once, that this country collects what needs to be charged. What's happened so far is done, but let's go ahead once and stop calling ourselves who, what, and how he did it. Let me just say it one more time that we're going to support this proposal and we're going to have a little more explanations later.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39423	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39424	I want to thank you for supporting this law, to give you information that there is currently a 248.382 requirement in Belgrade that in the last year and a half 8,352 cases have been resolved in the previous five years 17. So, there are 230,000 cases unresolved and that's one reason, not Belgrade, but all of Serbia, but that's one of the reasons we want to draw the line. Soon Belgrade will have both the PGR and the Law on Planning and Construction, indeed there will be no more reason to build either in an illegal manner, but the line must be underlined and this problem must be solved. That was why, among other things, we have made this law in the public interest, and we use that term, because we want the state to carry out this process in the fastest possible way cheaply, without a procedure. Thank you for upholding the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39425	The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39426	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, is a very important set of laws ahead of us today, and there really is a lot to be said about each law. Unfortunately, the time is short, so I'm going to try to focus my discussion on what's really important, maybe point to some of my observations and possibly waste some answers from you. I'm going to start a discussion with the Law on Law on Objects, and I want to say first that I hope this is really the last time we talk about legalising objects as a bill. In the last 20 years, we have repeatedly passed new laws or changed existing laws, but as you have already said, without some major results. We've heard a lot about the reasons for illegal construction before and today, and I don't want to say it again. I simply want to point out what we all noticed, that between the adoption of two laws, the number of illegal objects is increasing and certainly the greatest responsibility in that chain of responsibility is the lawless builders, but no less responsibility has even the authorities of the inspection, no matter how much there is in local self-government, because it is precisely in their jurisdiction to control and to prevent illegal construction. I think this law will solve a lot of things, first of all, which is the goal of the promoter and all of us, once and for all, to get rid of the lawless construction, to make records of the built-up objects, and to take steps with the world. The only thing I can say first and what really scares me is property-legal relations that have been a major obstacle so far and when it comes to legalization of objects and when it comes to building permits. Yes, this law predicted a broad range of solutions to property-legal relations. Even some ways are described in detail, but I fear that, knowing our citizens, there will be a problem. Here's a simple example. If 50 years ago a plot that was the size of a hectare was sold, a dozen customers bought and built buildings, and so far in the land book remained the owner of the same one that was 50 years ago, moved away, died, simply unavailable, how will these owners solve the property-legal relationship with the parcels on which they built an illegal facility, except in court proceedings? But are all our citizens educated in this direction that they can do so in a court of law? On the other hand, it takes a lot of time and a lot of expenses. Perhaps we should have anticipated a simpler solution, at least for a piece of land under these facilities or needed for regular use of the facility. As for the provisions of the laws which determine what may be the subject of the legislation, apart from the construction of objects and objects where constructive works have been done, I think that we should have anticipated precisely because of the objects that exist on the ground, built in different stages, whether it is a starting object or a building, to provide for enrolment, the legislation of these objects under special conditions called fitting. Why? The goal of all of us is to get as many objects enrolled in regular procedures as possible. It means that it has both a building and a useful permit, and why not allow the citizens who started the facilities and ended up fitting them into the possibility that they could enter the regular procedure, get local permits and move on under the Planning and Construction Act. We have submitted to this article, our parliamentary group has submitted an amendment, and we will discuss it more in the day when it is discussed in particular. Also when we talk about the same article that defines what the subject of the legislation is, it determines that the object and the object where the constructive works, the foundation, the pillars, the roof structure have been built, there I have one dilemma and one question – whether the object, and knowing the situation in life, that many of our fellow citizens have made it exclusively in order to quickly solve the housing solution, have built objects to the panel and moved into such objects and live years in such objects, can such objects be subject to legislation, since you have said that the aim of the law is that the owners of the facility have some paper on the object they live in? These people live in a building up to the plate and whether this facility can be mutilated even though there is no roof, because simply our citizens in this economic situation do not have the means to conceal their facilities. The provisions of Article 4 determine that the facilities for which a temporary building permit has been issued are not subject to the provisions of this Act. I didn't understand why, given that a temporary construction permit was introduced in the 1980s, and you know what the purpose of the temporary construction permit was, to adapt the facilities on private parcels, their own parcels, small buildings in some area of 50 to 80 square meters, so given what our mentality is, this temporary permit was time-abused, they were built, buildings on state land, large housing for commercial purposes, and mainly all these temporary permits had some period of validity. The expiry date has long expired. In addition, in 2003 a decision imposing a provisional authorisation was abolished. On the one hand, and if we know that the investors who built the buildings did not respect the conditions of that temporary building permit, they did not respect the projects on which a temporary construction permit was issued, I ask – how is it possible then to carry out the technical reception of such a building, on which grounds and on which grounds to issue the applicable permit? I really think that buildings with a temporary building permit should be classified for these reasons, i.e. the provisions of this law also apply to buildings with a temporary building permit. Up until now, when legalising illegal objects was a problem, there was a lack of respect for the distance of the building from the neighbouring plot, and it was indeed creating a lot of problems in practice. It was meant to be agreed and in most cases it was not possible and we support this change and I simply have a question – how are we going to solve cases where the facility was illegally built and one of its parts, did the roof, the staircase, the terrace set on a neighboring plot and thus reduced the rights of the owner of the neighbouring plot? Are we going to legalize these objects and how? When it comes to fees, we support a proposal that goes in the direction of qualification, but we think it was necessary to make a difference, and at least in that way, you said that the law is relatively fair, we agree, but our wish is that there is still a difference between people, citizens who have exclusively built objects because the trouble forced them to do so, illegally built to meet their housing needs and members of their family and to make a difference between those who built buildings to earn profits and did not respect the law. Certainly, the primary objective of this law is to protect the public interest of the state. Certainly, the aim of the bill is once in Serbia to make records of all the buildings built, because if we are serious on our way to Europe, we are also asked to have serious records of the facilities. I think this law is the right solution and the right way and I am convinced that, after all the laws we have passed over the past 20 years, this law will give the results we expect and, of course, that the SPS parliamentary group will support the draft law in the day of voting. Next in line, and not less important is the Law of State and Catastrophe. I'm glad the director is with us today, who probably knows what the situation is on the ground. The cadaster records in Serbia are of different levels and accuracy and quality, and this is probably due to data collection during the different technologies over a long period of time, and such a situation is simply not at that level to meet the needs of both citizens and businesses and investors. So, you yourself know that all those citizens who are directed and who need to cooperate with the cathedral have one common sense of dissatisfaction, because the catastran characterizes one inconclusion in the work, crowds in front of the counters, deadlines for enrolling the immovableity to remove a list of immovableities etc. Not to mention a copy of the plan, conversion, preparation and all other jobs that have to be done in the catastro. The deadlines are really inappropriately long. Such a situation is not since yesterday and, of course, you are not responsible for it, but it is simply time for such a situation to be resolved in the catastrus as soon as possible, because we will not be able to comply with what the Law on Planning and Construction foresees, that the building permit is issued in 28 days, if the catastre slows it down. In addition, when it comes to building, everything I'm saying, I speak from experience, and when it comes to building and when it comes to buying real estate, it all starts and ends up in a catastrophe. That's why the catastre is very important, I repeat again, for both the economy and the citizens, and especially, which is very important to us, is important to investors. That is why I would like to highlight the provisions that I consider to be the most important in the proposal for this law, which is to reduce the time limit for enrollment of the right to real estate. As we've heard, it's been 60 days. A seven-day reduction is an exceptional deadline and we really support it with our own strength. Then, a reduction in the time limit to extract certificates, statements and all other documents that are otherwise removed from the cataster. Reduced to five working days, we also support. The only thing I don't understand is why we didn't legally provide for a 24-hour mortgage entry deadline, when we know how important it is for our citizens to enter the mortgage quickly. For all those who want to borrow, so are the bank procedures, and from experience and practice we know that it is possible to enter a mortgage in one day. When it comes to Article 86, which provides for the rights of entry on immovable property, one option is not provided for, which often appears in practice and refers to the entry of specific parts of newly built objects. I'll tell you what it looks like on one occasion. So, the investor was building a building with multiple apartments, or he had a building permit, so he stepped down, or he didn't have a building permit at all. The apartments are sold, the investor no longer exists, and the buyers of these special parts want to enter the legal procedure, they want to legalise their special parts. The apartments were bought on the basis of a purchase contract, and the contracts contain a single square that is from an existing project at the time. In order to legalise this particular part, a second square shall be established. So there is another square in the later building and use permits. When the buyer comes to the cadastre, attach the purchase contract as evidence of ownership, contributes to the construction and use of the permit as evidence of the legality of the facilities and comes across the problem. Catastar refuses to enter the right to real estate, because squares match from the permit and from the contract. He can't do the annex, because there's no investor anymore. What would that buyer do? Do you know how many cases there are? That's a really big problem. I'm telling you what appears to be a problem in practice. I think that this law may have been an opportunity to solve such problems, if we have already set out to solve the problem that exists on the ground and the problems that arise in practice. Another problem that is present in Serbia, except that there are no planning documents in all municipalities and cities, is records in a disaster that does not always match the situation on the ground. We know that the basic principle of the catastra is that the catastre must be a true state of affairs on the ground. If we had passed laws and special entries of buildings without a building permit and various other laws that had no effect, we couldn't make that unique record. However, in addition to objects that are not recorded in the catastro, there is a problem with some plots that are not or are not within those coffee limits are listed on the ground or there are some other problems. If I didn't talk much about it right now, you must know it better than I do. I think that's where we need to get close to solving this problem. The reconstruction of the diameter is one of the solutions, but it's both soup and long-term. I'm saying it's one of the solutions, but it's really unacceptable for Serbia right now. Force citizens in some way to record plots and objects, I also don't see any way. Do you conduct some kind of recording of the actual state and facilities and plots as it is on the ground, regardless of the paperwork the owner has? I don't know if that's acceptable. Here, I'm just making some suggestions, because I just really really want to establish a unique record in Serbia once and for all, that the situation in the catastrus corresponds to the situation on the ground. Only by doing so can we develop economically and can we follow the standards that exist in this area in Europe. When it comes to the provisions relating to the note, I believe that it may have been necessary in those provisions relating to the note to enroll the right to build, or that a building permit has been issued for a particular building plot. Recording information that a specific parcel has been issued would prevent certain other procedures related to the same parcel from being conducted. In addition, the building permit imposes on the investor, in addition to rights, and certain obligations. If the investor fails to fulfil those obligations and puts the plot on the market, he will lead the buyer astray. Note that a building permit has been issued for a specific parcel avoids such situations that can apparently arise. What's very important for the SPS is the fees, that is, the part that's free of taxi payments. We suggest that the release from taxi payments have persons on the employment records, single parents and persons in the social protection regime. The SPS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to this article as well. Simply, just in conclusion, I'd like to say that a good legal solution, good measures can improve this situation in the catastro. I, Mr. Director, have no doubt that you will be working on it, because I see what you have already begun to change when it comes to catastra. The disaster must be up-to-date, reliable and must provide legal certainty to both citizens and businesses and to all those who need to cooperate with the disaster. Since I am running out of time, I would like to say that this proposal by the SPS parliamentary group will, of course, support all the other laws of this set of laws, and my colleagues will talk about other bill proposals in today's further debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39427	Thank you. The word is Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39428	Thank you. President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will certainly pay the utmost attention to today's presentation once, so to speak, to a slightly different law than all those we have so far been accustomed to, which concerned problems, or laws that should solve the problem of illegal construction in the Republic of Serbia. This Law on the Law of Objects, which is today in front of us, certainly represents a public interest for the Republic of Serbia and in Article 5 of this Law, something like that is certainly envisaged. It is predicted that something that has never happened in Serbia before was common, that wild construction would rule the state, not that it would be the other way around. I often have the opportunity to talk to citizens around Serbia about the problem of illegal construction. One comment from a citizen specifically drew my attention. He approached me and told me – there is simply no problem with wild construction in a regulated country, it does not exist because no one has ever built without a project, no one has ever built on a foreign land. However, this did not happen because his facilities were torn down, which someone came to punish him, but because they immediately came from a psychiatric facility to see what was wrong with him because simply in one orderly and normal state there is no way to do something without a project, and especially to do something on other people's land. Believe me, this story was very interesting to me. I tried to find out which state applied this measure, I failed. But I could certainly suggest this as one of the solutions that could possibly be applied in some future period, once and for all, when we put order into construction in Serbia, when there are no illegal objects ever again. One of my previous speakers said that this proposal today is on the agenda for the citizens of Serbia. What I would say is that certainly for years Serbia has received as slappers, although I find that very ugly and inappropriately said, it is -- for 18 years, five laws -- I think that Serbia is very specific, five laws that concerned solving the problem of illegal construction. But what is also specific is that neither of these laws has solved the problem of illegal construction, but has increased corruption, too, has increased the number of illegally built buildings. Here, I'm going to give you just one of the most drastic examples that I think is definitely something that hurts the citizens of Serbia. In the period from 2003 to 2009, when the Law on Planning and Construction was in force, we had the situation that under one legal act, one law, that the subject of illegal construction was treated, that people were able to legalise their property, and that same law provided for a provision that construction without a building permit was a criminal act. Now that we've analyzed it, so the citizens had the right to build, now, if they get caught -- they go to jail, if they don't get caught, then they can legalize the facility. It certainly doesn't make any sense, but what's even less logical than all that is that neither of them happened. Neither did he answer the criminal act of the law, nor was he arrested for building an illegal building, nor was he legalizing his object. What has certainly happened is only right and logical, and that is that the Constitutional Court has brought down the provisions of this law because it is simply impossible in one legal system to adopt diametrically opposite provisions. However, what this law has certainly done, I will point it out once again, is that it has increased corruption and it has led even to those who should have implemented this law, advised citizens -- never mind, build you free, no one will touch you anyway, there will be a new law on legalization, slowly, you will legalize it. Of course, they were right every time. Every time there was a new law on legalization, but these people weren't supposed to advise citizens like that, they were supposed to do their job. With this law we just want to do the opposite, let's say – enough is enough, to put an end to illegal construction. What's also terrible in Serbia is that we really don't know what number of illegal objects we have in Serbia. That's because we can only talk about the data provided by the Republic Geodetic Institute and we can only talk about those requests submitted by citizens, to be legalized. Now I'm going to read you what data the Republic Geodetic Institute has. A total of 4,670,899 buildings were built in Serbia, including 1,996,479 family housing buildings, and 36,321 are collective housing buildings. Of this number of total objects in Serbia, we have data that 1,476,433 objects were illegally, or illegally, or wildly built. This is the total number reported in the Republic Geodetic Institute. But what's devastating is that only half of that number, so somewhere around 770,000, has filed a legalisation request. So half of this typed number, which is not final, never wanted to legalize its objects. This number says that one third of the objects in Serbia are actually irregular, or illegal, and of that one third, the highest percentage, as much as 85% are facilities for family housing. What we want to do with this law, as provided for by the provisions of the law, is to be precise, to draw the line once and for all in Serbia and to see how many illegal objects it really is. So there will be no new call for the facilities to be legalised, no citizens who have already filed legal requirements will have the need to repeat that request. The law envisions the formation of a commission that will go to municipalities and list facilities in areas. The object that's the subject of this law will be all the objects that are on the satellite footage, what I heard from the Ministry, and I wish that information was right and that it was, that it would be a video that will be from June of this year, and I would like it to be, if I'm wrong, it might be different. As I say, local self-government will form commissions that will list in areas. The citizens will certainly be very transparently informed when their zone will be listed and this law has given the deadline of 12 months for the job to be completed. What is important is that citizens will not wait a year for the inspectors, or commissions, to complete the list of the entire territory, but after the construction inspection zone is completed, or the competent commissions will immediately issue solutions and those people who are listed will be able to legalise their facilities if, of course, they have the right to do so, or they will immediately get a solution to the demolition if they do not have the right to do so. What Serbia's citizens are certainly most interested in is what the procedure is and how much it will cost them. The first thing this law abolishes is the complicated procedure and the old rule – you lack another paper. Well, he won't be able to miss another piece of paper anymore, for the simple reason that the realisation of the law, that is, solutions under this law, will be needed to bring only two papers to the local self-government unit, and that evidence of property rights on land and evidence of the founding state of the object with the embodies of geodetic works. There are two groups of citizens who will legalize their facilities. Those citizens who have already applied for legalisation will not have to submit again, but will simply wait for units of local self-government to inform them whether they may have already submitted those two documents. In that case, such citizens, the thrift, so to speak, will no longer have to bring any more of the documentation. Other citizens, those who have not applied so far, will not be able to submit their own demands, but, as I have already said, will wait for them to be listed by a commission that will make a list and will also be subject to the same rule – only two papers. So they're going to have to bring back reports of the founding state of the facility and evidence of property rights on the land. Two papers, first and foremost rule of this law, are abolishing corruption and abolishing the rule of law for citizens is always missing one additional piece of paper. Also, the other thing I said was that I assumed the citizens were interested, and that's what my colleagues repeated several times today, but I'm going to do it again anyway, because it's really important to them, and that's the price they're going to have to pay when they legalize their illegally built objects. This price for citizens of family and residential buildings is like this: for a family-owned facility up to 100 square meters, the price will be 5,000 dinars; for family-owned buildings up to 200 square meters, the price is 15,000 dinars; for family-owned buildings up to 300 meters square, 20,000 dinars and for those slightly larger, or for the largest category of over 300 m square citizens will have to pay 50,000 dinars. All I've stated is the only thing that Serbian citizens will pay to the state law enforcement authorities, there is no more tax than the one I've read which citizens will need to pay. So this law will abolish all fees that citizens have paid so far for obtaining a building permit and not only in relation to the municipal administration that will issue the permit but also in relation to the catastran. So, we're going to abolish this law, and we're going to cancel the construction land tax, the municipal administrative tax will no longer be paid, and as I've already said, there will be no fee for enrolment of property rights on construction land. As I have already cited several times what has always been the biggest problem for citizens is a very complicated procedure, as I have already stated from statistics, many people wanted to legalise their facilities, but they were often not in a situation because the complicated procedure and corrupt officials did not allow it. Once again, I want to repeat, certainly, that the aim of this law is to legalize as much as possible. According to the ministry's assessment, up to 95% of illegal facilities will be legalized. However, there will certainly be what will not really be legalized, which, of course, is part of Article 5 of this law and is foreseen. Cases are foreseen in which some objects will not be legalized, and these are primarily cases where the facility is located on the ground that is not suitable for citizens such as swamps or ice rinks. Then, it will not be possible to legalise objects built from materials that do not provide sustainability. It will not be possible to legalise objects located on the surfaces of flat purposes and on the paths of corridors. What is also important to mention is that the subject matter of this law will not only be parts, i.e. objects illegally built, but this law also implies auxiliary facilities, such as garages, wells, storage, etc. But citizens will also be able to legalise underground installations. What one of my previous speakers asked as a question, what will happen to the infrastructure for these facilities. Citizens in Serbia, most of them and infrastructure facilities have. I'm sorry that that information doesn't know even though objects are to say wild, illegal, these people really don't live in a wild way. They've been slapping them well for years, but they've managed and mostly built infrastructure facilities themselves, and when we passed this law, we took care of exactly that sort of thing. To legalize and all those infrastructure facilities that they've been doing themselves for years, because they've been getting slaps for years, they haven't been able to legalize their facilities, and I'm sorry that this has now happened in a case like this. As I say, citizens will be able to report to the commissions everything they've done since underground installations, within 60 days. However, the law does not provide that citizens will be able to become landowners where this infrastructure is moving, which is of course not logical or possible. Citizens will only become owners of the part of the infrastructure they made themselves, which they made with their money, and I am sorry that one of my previous colleagues does not know such a thing. What this law also foresees is that the solution to justice, i.e. enrollment in the catastran, is done by official means within three days of the day of justice and the legal solution. So, citizens won't have to take the solution themselves, to the catastra, and of course I repeat once again for enrolment in the cadastre, i.e. on the right of the citizens' property, they won't pay any taxes. Certainly this law provides for both very rigorous and harsh measures. I mentioned that story at the beginning, I might suggest even more rigorously, but I'll do it in the next period when things are drawn and things in Serbia are solved once and for all, and then we can do something like prevent something like this from ever happening again in Serbia. What this law now offers is only two solutions to Serbian citizens who have built illegal buildings, or will legalise or be destroyed, the third option will not exist. What I'm going to look back on, since unfortunately we won't have enough time to mention all the laws, is the Law of State and Cataster, the adoption of amendments and additions to this law is certainly very important, especially in order to comply with the other regulations that we have passed this year. I will specifically refer to the draft law on planning and construction, which has produced extraordinary, special results for a very short period of time. This is something that we showed Serbian citizens that reforms in Serbia are going better, that things in Serbia are going better, that they are running in the right direction. It's not just us we're talking about. That's what 47 seats on the "Ding Business" list are talking about when they get a building permit. Serbia was in 186th place in number, in order to obtain a building permit, and is now in 139th place in just a few months since the application of the Law on Planning and Construction, not to mention that, with comprehensive reforms, Serbia has moved from 91st to 59th place on the "Doing Business" list. As for the law that I started talking about, and that's the bill on amendments and additions to the State's diameter and catastra law, there are a few more important facts that I want to mention. This is primarily the fact that this law provides for the return of a second-degree decision in the administrative procedure in the area of diameter and catastra from the Ministry of Construction to the RGZ. Since the first degree is also in the catastrous, we believe that many solutions have been accumulated for years, i.e. the requirement for resolution, and when it comes down to one roof, we hope that these solutions will certainly be more efficient and that these 26,000 items will be resolved within as short a time as possible when it is decided as I have already said under one roof. What's certainly very connected is these two draft laws that are before us today, the Law on the Law of Objects, will certainly pour a lot of work into the catastro. In addition, as of 1 January 2016, the issue of an electronic, building permit under a united catastre procedure has been envisaged and the work is to be done. Of course, from everything I've stated, we have to give one great support to all those who work in the catastrus to do the job the right way, because the train to which reforms have started in Serbia because it's a really fast train and all the cars need to go at the same speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39429	Thank you. We're moving on to the list. First speaker, Djordje Kosanić. Is he here? No, I don't. ) The word has the next speaker Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39430	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I will like all my colleagues, or I will only talk about the bill of law on the law of the facility, unfortunately, no one has spoken until now in this debate except you, a little bit about the Law on Commercial Broding or the Time of the crew of the vehicle in road transport and tafographs. I really don't think it's appropriate that we have united all these points of the agenda, of course it's most interesting and probably and perhaps most important, for the citizens, the most interesting bill of law on object law. What this law is trying to solve is a problem that exists for many years, and you have looked back at that period in the opening statement, the fact that we have had five previously passed laws that have not solved this problem, and I see that you are firmly convinced that this law is the one that will put an end to the problem of illegal, illegally built objects in Serbia. I have to admit, by reading this law, I'm not convinced that this is the point. Sincerely as a citizen of this country, I would like that to happen, but somehow every time laws were passed in this assembly, the promoters in front of the government claimed this would put an end to it. If we look at a genealogy somewhere, we see that in this bill, the fact is that the least tax to be paid is the least complicated administration in obtaining the documents that you will need to lawlessly raise an object. But somewhere I'm afraid that's not enough. My question is - will the Government, is it ready to go to the end to implement this law? The area is seen in the fact that five and maybe up to 10% of these million and a half estimated illegal buildings in Serbia will not be able to be legalised and that 150,000 buildings will have to collapse according to the letter of this law? If you said at the beginning that some estimate that the collapse of the existing million and a half illegal objects would take about 10 billion euros, does the state have a billion euros to spend and to bring down illegal buildings? We know our finances are in bad shape, and by reading this law, I haven't been able to see what deadlines they are, when will the state start to tear down those objects that can't be legalized under this law? Because Article 37 says that the destruction of an illegally built facility within the meaning of this law will not be carried out until the legal process has been properly completed. By collecting all the deadlines that have been given and the deadline of 12 months to implement a census programme that local self-government should adopt in the next 15 days, when we adopt this law, let's say that I am also worried about that step. I'm not sure local self-government has the capacity to carry out a list of 800,000 in the next year, what is the estimate of illegally built buildings. It's a huge job. After that, Article 38 continues to speak about what is happening and when there is a rightful solution to the collapse of the facility, then Article 5 there says - when it is not possible to execute a solution to the collapse, the building inspector is obliged to conclude the fact in the solution to the collapse. What is it that will prevent the destruction of this facility? I understand somewhere that there are buildings that cannot be torn down, but then I don't understand why there is an attitude 8 in this article that says when something doesn't collapse, it is delivered to the catastro and the tax authority to enroll on the burden of immobility that this facility cannot be legalised, then Article 8 says - the competent authority may, at the request of the owner of an illegally built facility under Article 5, adopt a subsequent legal solution if the owner provides evidence of compliance with the conditions prescribed by this law. What's the deadline? If he couldn't do it in a year, plus I don't know how many days of justice, it won't collapse, but there's still a deadline for something to happen, to meet some conditions, I don't know what conditions can be fulfilled anymore? I'm a layman in this matter. I'm asking this more as a question. Also, why do we think that there are elements, to say corruption, in this law, as there have been in all previous laws regarding legalization, these are some, for me, vague and broadly given norms. Article 3 says – the subject matter of legislation within the meaning of this law is an object that has been completed in a building sense. Dot. Then let's move on. This is where the problem arises - especially from the provisions of Article 1, when the subject matter of building law, the subject of legislation can be a building where only constructive construction works are carried out. It then lists – foundations, walls, accumulated concrete or steel pillars with beams, i.e. reinforced concrete ceiling, roof structure, with or without the final facade. The next item – degree of completion for other objects subject to legislation is determined depending on the type and purpose of the facility. What is the degree of completion that allows for law enforcement, which is the degree that it does not allow? It's probably some rule that needs to be passed, it's not part of this law, and I don't think it's good that there's no clear definition in the law, so you just said the foundation. This is how it was left whether the foundation, whether the beams, whether the roof, is not a roof, where we see the problem and the possibility of corruption because some building inspector is going to come out and tell him, he's going to have to make a report. What's he gonna write in that report? What's built? Then you have an article 25, I've watched again, which has this same list of what it can have, but now it's said – illegally built objects on which construction works were performed with a designed constructive assembly, so now they're counting the foundations again, the walls. So in article 3, you're talking about buildings, and in Article 25, you're talking about buildings. These are things that are not precise enough and we think that it is necessary to specify, as well as this famous Article 5. As it's written in the law, and unfortunately I haven't been able to look at the amendments, you can now say there's already an amendment; but as it's written, point 4. - built in the first and second stages of the protection of a natural object; then in brackets – (except for cottages and other family facilities for rest); means first and second. So the minimum intervention would be the first point, without the "still" part, so we can interpret this if it wasn't the first one. So now I'm telling you what the law says. If there are changes, I'll support that change and that's one of the things that we insist on being absolutely clear about. And what I think is crucial and where the biggest problem is, everyone in the last year knew there was going to be a new Law on Legalization. What did that produce in the field? People started mass building without permission, mass. For the past few months, construction inspectors have been forced out by investors - come on, run, go new law; they are going to work. And now they will be, not the controversial houses that people built 20, 15, 10 or five years ago, we dispute what was built this year, what was built when the deadline of the previous law expired, 29 January 2014. So we ask that it be a deadline, what was built by then, that it can be legalized, not this in these last few months. Wild now building around Belgrade, in other cities, wild, because people knew this law would come and what they were talking about, instead of paying land use fees for several hundred thousand euros, they knew, the law would come, they would pay several tens of thousands of euros. And that's the problem. That's why we think it's more appropriate for the deadline that we've given through our amendment. What you said, and I didn't find anywhere in the law, and that is the obligation that this amount of 70% of taxis, as far as local self-government goes, must go as an obligation to invest in infrastructure. It doesn't say anything. It says he's going into the local self-government budget. What they're gonna do with that budget, we'll see. It is not clear that it has to go to investment in infrastructure, which would be logical, because it needs to be built for these illegal waterway facilities, sewerage, road infrastructure. There's no obligation. I wish she were in this law, like you said she was. In this proposal that I'm reading, it's not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39432	Thank you for your comments. Let me repeat, Article 5, we're going to further explain for everyone, there's no building at all in the first degree of protection. In the second degree of protection, only weekends and family holiday homes are possible, I'm talking about nature parks. When you talk about destruction and when you say that you are not firmly convinced that this law can be implemented and implemented, I am. All that the Ministry of Law has proposed, it really does implement those laws and implement them. The proof of that is the Law on Planning and Construction. He has his results today. When we talked about it in December last year, the same was the debate here and you said – it will never happen and there is no way it will be, or it won't be possible for construction permits to be issued in less than a month, so we succeeded. We actually have results that can be seen and the latest data says, let's say, according to the data of the Republic Statistics Institute, 929 building permits were issued in September 2015, which is 17.3% more than in September of the previous year. With 2,882 permits, this is the best third quarter in the last eight years and the second best September of that period, etc. So it's possible that the laws are implemented, implemented, and that's why we've been doing this law maybe longer than we planned, but we've done it precisely with the goal that it can certainly be applied in practice. When you talk about the demolition, too, to remind you, this is the first ministry that has taken its business seriously and allocated money and for the destruction, and this is, I would say, the only ministry in the past 10 years that is all that is, for example, in the jurisdiction of the ministry, and when we talk about the destruction of illegally built objects and funerals. We destroyed the facilities on Tara, i.e. Perućac, Golia, Gerdap, next week Kopalnik and Uvac. We simply enforce the law, and it will do local self-government together. Control will be conducted by the Ministry. There are also sufficient capacities in local self-government because they have managed to implement and implement the Law on Planning and Construction. There won't be any reason, no problem to enforce this law. You're right, the law will find an amendment where exactly 70% of the money that comes from the law will be targeted and will be designed to improve the infrastructure of these local self-governments, as it will be for this second degree of protection. When you were talking about that part about apartments and buildings, certainly the inspector will find the inability to crash if we have apartments in one building, and if someone doesn't want to cut it down, he has to stop it, and on the other hand we'll have, of course, to pay a bigger tax on property. Next, if I skipped something, you'll remind me. But I suppose you and your amendments, which we will look at and suggest, all of what you have said to the amendments, and together we will look at everything we can accept to make the law better, we will certainly, as always, do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39433	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic, and let Balša Bozovic prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39434	Thank you, esteemed president of the National Assembly. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with their team, representatives of the Republic Geodetic Institute, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the key word of today's debate is what the minister said a few minutes ago, which is that the ministry simply respects and implements the law. And that's what gives us here in parliament hope that this will be the last time we discuss this law and that this problem will, of course, be a permanent and long-term solution. In the old days, he was called Roman Senator Porcia Caton, finishing every speech in the Senate with Cartagena simply being destroyed. I am sure that the minister with her team will also do with this problem, that the problem will be permanently solved and that we will no longer have to deal with these matters and that it is simply a message to both domestic and foreign investors that we are the country, that the representatives of our country, the representatives of the political authorities are able to make decisions, to make difficult decisions and, of course, this legislation, but also these other laws, cannot be seen outside of a broader body of legislation that this government has proposed and voted in parliament in the previous period. We cannot look beyond what is a safe waterhouse, when it comes to implementing difficult economic reforms, which is the Law on Planning and Construction. I'll just give you a few empirical data. The Law on Planning and Construction has increased the participation of construction in our GDP from 0.5% to 1%, so even 50%. What is most important is that the number of workers in the construction industry increased by 5.8%, that on the Doing Business List we advanced from 91st place to 59th place. What is a very good signal for our economy, for reforms, for all those who want to help this country be a country that is developing dynamically, which wants new employment and solving this biggest problem, which is that the number of production capacities in the construction industry is increased by as much as 23%. It's a key piece of information, and thank you for that. Thank you for everything you've done to implement the Law on Planning and Construction in full capacity and to give those effects that we had when it was passed a year ago together and we here in Parliament and you as a representative of the Government wanted. These effects are multiplicity. They are reflected in our rating and when it comes to international institutions, the World Bank, the IMF, as well as domestic and foreign investors, who are closely monitoring our country's ratings during each of the parameters monitored in this context. Also, I have to mention January 1st next year, when it will begin issuing electronic building permits. We know you've put a great deal of effort into making several thousand employees who need to be technical support, who need to ensure that this law works in the field and that in this way we attract as many people as possible to invest that money here and secure it and to do it in the fastest possible and most dynamic way possible. What represents a key aspect of this law is that the state will finally have precise data on the number of such objects. You don't have to say much about how strategic, primarily and national interest it is, but how much is one indicator that if you want to manage something in an effective and effective way, you have to know what you have to do. On the other hand, it is very important to ensure that the possibility, as someone who advocates lower tax rates, who advocates the development of entrepreneurship, entrepreneurial initiatives, is aware that the practice of the most developed countries is about reducing taxes and creating an environment for creating a quality tax policy gives this signal and a good incentive to develop entrepreneurship and business development. It is precisely this law that will lead to an increase in the number of objects on which the property tax is to be paid and, of course, it will provide for that possibility to be compensated, i.e. to reduce the level of property tax, which will lead to reproduction in these plants, in these companies and, of course, what is most important, to create an opportunity in this way through new employment. We heard on several occasions today why the same arches are used, the same rules for those who made apartments, who bought apartments, for those who do business. What do we have to do? Should we shut down these companies? Should we close those factories? This is the most honest, fairest and best possible way for these factories, these plants, these facilities to legalise their work, of course, in this way and thus give them the incentive to enter into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, to contribute to what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Parliament, of course, are seeking, and this is the rule of law and not to deal with this issue anymore. This is just one of a series of issues that we are dealing with in addition to fiscal consolidation, in addition to a reduction in debt, in addition to the struggle to reduce public debt, aggressive employment, private sector development, public administration reform. Many, many of the projects launched, but the projects for which there is determination, for which there is political will and, of course, there is the ability of those who are decision-makers, among which, of course, you are respected vice presidents, who can in the most qualitative, best possible way to realize this in the interest of both citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our economy, and we should not be ashamed to say that our economy is fully focused, because it pays taxes and it ensures the development of all social activities in our country. A few days ago, we had a discussion about it. We've earned, we've saved up, we've increased pensioners' fees, we've raised our educators' fees, we want to continue. We want to encourage those who create additional value so that from these sources we can finance all those, of course, without action, without which one country cannot develop. We are aware of this, and we do not have a problem with saying that the development of the economy, the development of the economy is a fundamental condition for fair and fair redistribution and the management of any policy, whether it is social, whether it is cultural or any other and everything else is demagogy. This is one of the legal solutions and one of the moves that says that the government of the Republic of Serbia together with parliament has decided to unnecessarily implement economic reforms and to make Serbia what is called the main economic hub, so the most favourable destination in this region for investment and economic development. What I would also point out is that these are amendments and additions to the Law on the Republic Geodetic Institute. We as a parliamentary group, but as a group of MPs gathered in the Economic Cocus, we will also have a few amendments. I hope that through the acceptance of these amendments, we will help people in the Republic Geodetic Institute that they will work with maximum motivation, maximum quality on that job that awaits them in the next period. These are thousands of objects, but also in this way, through the creation of one ambience and the creation of them favourable and good working conditions, we want to ensure that they do this job with maximum productivity, maximum efficiency, and show each part of the state administration and every state institution, especially this important... I will just mention that, let's say, the Republic Geodetic Institute in Republika Srpska is located in the government building, several floors below the prime minister, that it is an institution of strategic national importance and that it is very important for us to work best and in line with the best models and standards of governance to help both citizens and businesses, as well as governments and state institutions to realise the start of jobs. Of course, the SDPS parliamentary group will support these laws in the voting day, of course, with full incentive and support for efforts and ministries, but also for all others who are here today, to implement difficult economic reforms. Because, as far as we can see, one step at a time is daily the good and quality results of reforms carried out through the business list and through respect for international institutions and organisations, but also the international position that Serbia today has in political terms. Although someone thinks it's an accident, even though someone thinks it's the acquisition of some ad hoc circumstances, it's not, because Serbia is today a friend and a partner with both the United States and the EU, and with the Russian Federation, and with China, and with Asian tiger countries, and I'm sure it will make maximum use of that international position we haven't had in decades. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing is a prerequisite for us in parliament, at least we who are representatives of the majority, want to fully support it. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39435	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word has the People's MP Balša Bozovic, and let the MP Aleksandar Jovicic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39436	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, this is the fifth law in a row that is the best, which is the most perfect, which will... (Marco Atlagic, from town: Sixth. ) Or the sixth. Maybe you're right. ... once and for all, to resolve the issue of legalization and what order this issue will introduce. Each one so far had a public interest, each one so far contained all that it needed to have one law contained in order to be fair among other things and to allow citizens, with correct compensation, to legalise their roof over their heads. But what bothers us is that this is the one that is in the public interest and this law is the one that will once and for all solve the problems that have existed for decades. What bothers us is probably that Minister Zorana Mihajlovic does not know, and that is that people around her today, as assistants, as advisers or state secretaries, those who wrote previous laws. In that sense, there is no ministry that has the credibility to propose this area with the same people for more than 10 years. I don't understand why some MPs or some MP groups stick their heads in the sand when it comes to this topic. It is not clear to us why it is difficult to speak boldly and to fully expose and discover this matter to the end. To be clear, when someone is talking about legalisation, he is not thinking about Kaludierica in Belgrade, he is not thinking about some suburban settlements in certain cities, where citizens have been trying to legalise their roof over their heads for 10 years. This law pointed out firstly the only argument, and these are citizens, poor, who will in one quick and cheap way legalize what has not been legal so far. However, this law has been passed, or passed because of a completely different matter. It will enable commercial property owners to legalise dozens or tens or hundreds of thousands of squares that were made by law, on a foreign land, without any permits. This is the greatest law, it's true, but you didn't specify that this is a law of corruption. In Serbia, one who has many will have even more, and that is the postulate of this government in the last four years. This text of the law was either written in favor of the so-called construction mafia or written by the construction mob. I don't want to judge by the fleets of those who came here today to advise you on how to defend this law, whether one of them is among you, but in any case as a MP, I want you to imagine a fact that's more than exact, that this is how you legalize something that couldn't by any law, in no country to become legal. The law is not passed so that the poor would legalise a roof over their heads, but that the lawless builders would allow themselves a profit measured in millions and millions of euros. How and how cities, municipalities, will lose funds in their budgets, those who have proposed this bill know best. If you don't believe what's going on at the bar and if you don't know the stories of Madam Minister, what are they like in Chajetina in Zlatibor, and I'm sure you know that example very well. An example of a few or at least one man in central Serbia who will legalise 10,000 illegal squares with this law. He will receive 50 million discounts and how many such in Serbia will receive discounts of 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50, or 60 million dinars. This leads us to suspect that someone for this bill has taken the fat money. I do not claim it to be you, but it is a bit symptomatic that you are proposing the fourth law in a row that is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and which is all but not in the public interest of the Republic of Serbia and planning and construction and conversion, now this, signed the contract on "Belgrade on Water", wrote your Ministry of Land on Zlatibor to a private person. These are all things that are indicative of us only one thing, that your Ministry is Mrs. Mihajlovic, the generator of corruption in Serbia. Those who have whispered to various ministers so far to legalize what is not possible to become legal have not bowed down. You are the first minister to kneel before those who have tried for the third time in the Republika Srpska Assembly to push through what they know for themselves. Well, not only is it not under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but it is completely contrary to the public interest of citizens. The entry into the catastrus of illegally built objects is a solution that represents fraud, and here it is stated that it is in the public interest. Why? It became clear that the whole idea of enrollment in a cadastre, the so-called enrollment in a cadastre, a fraud designed by a very small group, which is not known to the general public, but is very present in the Ministry you've been leading for many years and many ministers have exchanged, and a small group of people have an interesting connection has remained to burn and burn your Ministry. I'm not going to talk about names here today. I'm sure you know some, but I'll leave the investigative journalism to them to do their job. What is very important is to underline, even if the stories concerning Zlatibor were not to the end accurate, and very well from the informed sources we received this information, and even from the president of the municipality of Cajetin, Mr Stamatovic. The purpose of this law is to legalise pure crime in Serbia. What didn't go after a bank robber's hand, what didn't go after the hand of someone who'd hidden the tax, went after the hands of those who have been called the construction mob in Serbia for two decades. To put my hand to heart and to be completely honest, already once the amendments and the ruling majority have prevented this. Because then there was awareness among the ruling majority MPs that this was pure crime. Apparently, Serbia has slipped into one - mindedness lately, and there is no such indication that someone from the ruling majority today is ready for what he did last time. The Constitutional Court has spoken, but what is the Constitutional Court for you gentlemen? One institution that must not take a stand, which cannot judge, which often speaks of things that are not even questioned, in order to bring order. What is the Constitutional Court if any law in the Serbian Parliament can obtain an adequate majority? I think that's very clear. You do not care about institutions in this way, you end the full rule of law and punish those who have legally built, and you give discounts to those who have illegally built. I'm not talking about citizens here. For example, from Kaluderica or other settlements in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, municipalities and cities around Serbia, I am already talking about those who are going to crush huge wealth in this way. Whoever is in central Serbia or who will legalise their 1,000-square-metre business facilities, which are business facilities, will have a discount of over 4.5 million dinars. One that mutilates over 1,000 square meters in central Serbia's living space will have a three million dinar discount. The discount the poor will have will be negligiblely small, compared to tycoon discounts, which in this way will gain legal wealth in Serbia. It will be very interesting that in the coming period after the adoption of this law, since we have no dilemma that it will be adopted even though we have prepared more than 30 amendments, it will be very interesting to see the effects that the savings were on the facilities that have legalized citizens to legalise the roof over their heads, their houses and their apartments, and how much savings were involved in large capitalists, i.e. tycoons that would make a lot of money in this way. Fifty million dinars only one, I'm free to say yours will save on legalization under this law when it comes to Zlatibor. We can also talk about names, of course it was never a problem when it comes to the Democratic Party, but as I said, it is the duty of journalists and those involved in public reporting. If someone was not sufficiently proof when it came to the law, a scandalous law on special conditions of sale of certain immovableities, property of the Republic of Serbia. This is crown proof that something is in the interest, first of all, of the mafia, not of the state. We will do everything in the next period, and don't doubt it and have any dilemma about the agricultural land in Belgrade that is related to the PKK and when it comes to land in Zlatibor and when it comes to "Belgrade on water" and when it comes to this shameful and anti-constitutional law for which many MPs stick their heads in the sand when they talk about it. Be assured that all these things will be worth writing down and that we will deal with this very much when the time comes. We won't forget either of these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39437	The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39438	Not so much for you, as because of the citizens of Serbia for whom, above all, this law was made, because it was made in the interest of the citizens of Serbia in the public interest, unlike those previous laws you mentioned, which had no such public interest and which were made, and now we will see why they were made, in which way and who actually took the money by passing various laws by name and last name. Before I go to tell you one thing first, which is that this government and the Serbian Progressive Party don't share people on yours and ours and don't share on these and those. The Serbian Progressive Party and the government are taking care of all Serbian citizens. This law is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia. To remind a million-and-a-half illegally built buildings, 85% are family homes and apartments. My question to you is, I'm sorry, and you let them build illegally? This illegal construction has not occurred since the SNS was in power, but in the past 18 years, and especially since 2000. You've passed laws, based on which we now have a million and a half illegally built objects. Why didn't you stop them? Why didn't you arrest the owners of a million-and-a-half illegal buildings? Why didn't you apply the law that you passed, and one of the authors of that law is your shadow minister, as I recall? Why didn't you apply the law? Why haven't you applied the law for 10 years? Why did you allow in every local self-government that almost no building inspector exists just because you let local powerful people and your community presidents work on these local self-governments, and that for today we have a million and a half illegally built objects? I'm sorry, and then who took the money from those ten years when it was built illegally? The Serbian Progressive Party or DS, or representatives of your party, when they passed such laws and we have this situation that we have today? That's the facts. A million and a half illegally built objects, unfortunately, or whatever you interpret, were created in your time and during those five laws. This law differs from those previous laws. Our interest is to solve the problem and we will indeed solve the problem. As for the people who write the laws, firstly, we are the Government who, when writing the law and every law proposed by this ministry to Parliament and parliament, was primarily in the public debate. Our laws are written by teachers and members of working groups. Our laws are not written by one, two or three people, but by a large number of people. All our laws are in public debates. But for your information, the law is responsible for whoever proposes it, first and foremost, the minister on behalf of the ministry. I, as Minister, gave basic guidance on what to solve. I'm in charge of this law, and it's with your civil servants, with the people you've appointed, who we haven't removed from our ministries, yes, that law has been done. Like we haven't removed anyone from the judicial authorities, so now we're working. So you can't talk that way. I'm going back to the question - why didn't you arrest a million and a half owners of illegally built buildings? Why didn't you apply the laws you passed? Because it suits you. Because someone's right, you're right, then you took money to make it illegal, and we're gonna stop it. When you talk about the construction mob, you're absolutely right. Do you know when she was born? After 2000. When you talk about agricultural land, fantastically, let's talk a little bit about first-class pastures in downtown Belgrade, which have suddenly been transformed into building land where your MPs have been building with some other people. You know them all. Therefore, the construction mafia did exist and certainly still exists, but surely on a much smaller level than it was in your day. We'll deal with it because we first passed the Planning and Construction Act, which you were against because it was probably appropriate for you to be given building permits in 200, 300, 400, 500, 1,000 days. That worked out for you because someone else had the benefit of it. We've also passed the Law of Conversion, to solve something that hasn't been solved in years. We will bring, hopefully, and this law and solve the issue of illegally built objects and reduce exactly everything called corruption, because it shows and says, not just what I'm saying now, but all of the world's international institutions. Therefore, the question is for you – and what have you gentlemen been doing for the past 15 years?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39439	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovica. No, the conditions haven't been met. [[Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Can I get a replica?]] It's mentioned in DS, he could only get a replica from the head of the parliamentary group, but he's not looking for a replica. Here you go, Mr. Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39440	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear guests, dear minister, it is strange when Mr Bozovic talks about illegal construction. Well, you built a bridge on Ada without even one single piece of paper in Belgrade and spent 500m euros. What kind of relationship did you have to our country, according to the laws, when one day you got up, raised a loan and built a bridge without even one single piece of paper? Remember only Slavia. Then we were opposition and we appealed to change. In downtown Belgrade, in Slavia, you have transformed the land from an extra zone into another zone, as if it were land in Karaburma, not Slavija, to allow those you have fed for years, tycoons in our country, to build whatever they want, whatever they want and make money. And now you're talking and fighting for people living in Kaludierica, Borchi, Sheep, etc. How can you not be ashamed? After all, where did this great brave man who had transformed the construction land on Vracar into a pasture in downtown Belgrade and built a building of several thousand squares? Unless the government is ambushed in the shadows, so he had an emergency session to make very important decisions for your future political campaign. A man must not come because he knows what he could and what he did in your time. Nothing was legal, and now you're fighting all of a sudden. You've passed four laws. Those laws may have been good, but you've never implemented them. Anything that needs to get into legal flows, you're afraid of it, you're afraid of it. You have this resistance to any change that will make a system in our country on the one hand, and on the other hand that the state has a profit from it. Now that you're talking, and since you said Minister Zorana Mihajlovic doesn't talk about Kaludjerica, don't talk about Borca, Ovca, here, I'll talk about it. Since I come from the Palilu municipality, and you are the chairman of the DS City Committee, and to direct citizens to Belgrade, there is still the ruling DS for almost 15 years, so we're going to talk a little bit about how to build and what to do, and not just five and ten years ago, but also on today. We fight against it daily, together with the minister, along with the City of Belgrade. We're going to give an example, and that's how DS investors lift 8,000 square feet without even one single piece of paper on the 15th street of Juliet Delera, and they're blocking all the windows of that ordinary world, which has been collecting a block per block for years to build a roof over its head, about which you just talked about and brought out the lush emotions that hit you. It's not the only street. So 8,000 squares. The city's inspection puts on red tape, and they take off and build at night. It's not the only location. We also have 32 Ranko Milic Street. Same case, same yellow-colored investor. And who supports them? Well, you're the president of the city board, supporting the people who run the DS in Palillula, who did everything, just didn't do what they were paid for, which is to make investments, make roads, work sewers. Because if we mention the Krnjak, where you have a great expert with a big file that supports and enables and preserves those same ones who build, but in time, those who have to deal with it and show it to the people will do it. You're talking about something, how are you not ashamed? Do we want to mention the Blaž Football Club in Ovca? How many acres have you changed to the football club "011" where there are certain tycoons behind it, but I don't care, I'm not afraid to say it, so you can take the money? You've done a lot of things, and you should be ashamed of yourself. Both Danilo Basic and Stojan Nikolic, even Mr Djurovic, although he is from the SPS. I don't share, but there are always individuals who are arrogant and should be called names and last names, even if they're SNS. You do a lot of things, and now you're talking... (Dejan Radenkovic, from town: So call. I told you, Ljubisa Djurovic. (Dejan Radenkovic, from town: So call from SNS. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39441	Please, Mr. Radenkovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39442	Why am I saying that? Because at this point in that community where I come from, you raise 25,000 illegal squares, you rush into construction, and we want it processed, and it's finally cleared up once and for all if we're going to get more into the system of legal construction or we're going to dwell like you 20 years back and let it do whatever it wants. We're aware of the fact when we're talking about a million and a half illegal objects. First of all, let's face it, why do we have illegal objects, one part of these illegal objects? First of all, we had wars in the 1990s, when we talk about Kaludierica, when we talk about Borca, the Sheep, people came, they ran from the war, and the rules were wild settlements because they watched them slowly build 20, 30, 50 square meters, under one plate, so when they raised money to put a roof, etc. I can never forget that category of people in our country, because I'm one of them and I. But there are also those who behave arrogantly, build 15-20 thousand squares, the state has nothing to do with it, and then they're still blocking that poor woman's windows. Well, I'll fight them like that. But what's the good side and why do I want to congratulate Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic? Because these prices, when we talk about legalization, are acceptable. Five thousand dinars -- up to 100 m square, or 15 thousand -- up to 200 m square meters can be paid and can be collected, because everyone in Serbia wants to have a legal facility where they live with their family, but the state has to allow them to have a decent price to pay, even if they need to borrow, but it's not peppered and it doesn't return 30 years to the next. Now, that's what we're gonna make possible and no one's running away from establishing a system. You were running away. The bridge on Ada did not have permission, Slavija, an extra zone, you transferred to another zone, Mr Sutanovac what he was doing on Vračar and many others and many others and what you are doing today on the Palilula municipality, Belgrade's largest municipality. That's why I'm calling the Department of Construction, and I've also asked it as a parliamentary question. I also call on the city of Belgrade and all the institutions that have the authority to finish the crime in the municipality that I represent and finally get people to feel better and to have someone deal with their problems. The turtle is six kilometers by the airline from this congregation. Channeling has never dared to introduce or start it, and today you're in power, but that's why the illegal construction of your investors has not only reigned, but today it reigns and we'll fight it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39443	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. Mr. Bozovic, you have the right to a replica, since Mr. Jovičić generously, mentioning your last name, gave it to you. Here you go. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39444	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first thing. Mr. Jovicic has made a series of lies, and I only have one argument for them. If a young colleague wants to become president of the Palilu municipality one day, even if he is running for the post, he must know that all over 8,000 squares, which he mentioned earlier, is the city's jurisdiction, not the municipal jurisdiction. The municipal authority is up to 800 square meters. So, 8,000 square meters if built, is built under the watchful eye of Belgrade Mayor Sinisha Mali and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. In your ranks, I ask you to look for the culprits for this corruption and this crime. As for Djurovic, Basic and Nikolic, they did a lot for Palilula, I thank them this time, but I believe that citizens will be judged in the elections, neither you nor I, Mr Jovicic. The bridges were built in Belgrade, but DS did not build them for itself, but citizens do, the city works, Serbia does. It's not our bridges, it's citizens' bridges, you all use them, eventually. Here we talked about corruption, which makes Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic's law legalize tens of thousands of squares on Zlatibor tomorrow, and will be interesting when it comes to the names of someone, someone's connections, so it may be true who is the party's member. After all, I'm done, I didn't want this to turn into some interparty shooting. I also told Mrs. Zorani Mihajlovic, she shouldn't hide either, as a minister, behind the SNS and that's what I'm saying publicly here, this is the thing that came from this ministry, the law written by people who haven't been members of the DS, and there are 20 years. The most corrupt law is the one on the agenda in the Serbian Parliament today, and I think it's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39445	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Replica, two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39446	Dear Chairman, in order not to open a further circle of replicas, I will not mention anyone by name and last name, but the previous speaker is not familiar with one fact that the city of Belgrade, along with the construction ministry, has made a decision to tear down the facility. This is what it means, not to hide, but to see what you do and what you do. How'd it go, 8,000 square meters? Well, by having and having them today, and I'm not afraid to say it at all, you have a community inspection that comes and sends another man to get a racket so they don't touch them. What are you talking about? I watch it every day. You'd better not mention another word. Unlike many of you, I'm in the field every day and I'm listening to it and I'm gonna fight it. Why? Because you didn't do anything. And why I want to run, it's my personal thing, just the way you're running Belgrade municipalities where you have power today, the question is what you're going to run for, it's a big question, and why are people running for the Palilu municipality today? If it were up to me, I'd know what they'd be running for. So it's imperative that we establish a system, that we no longer have the hiducination, that we no longer have the abductions, that we no longer have the racketeering. Why do I react emotionally when I'm talking about all this? Because you use the term “people who can barely finish clothing themselves with the end to put a roof over their heads. ” Well, wait, please, it's so bad for you and it's so hard for you. Well, if it hit you, you wouldn't be walling people's windows, you wouldn't be on the sidewalk. Not only do you kidnap other people, you kidnap the state, you kidnap everyone. Well, that practice has to end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39447	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39448	Every municipality in Serbia needs to be a citizen service and must deal with their key problems, essential conditions, that's what I end up with. That's where we're different, and we'll always be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39449	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. That closes the circle of replicas. Madam Minister, do you want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. He's not in the O.R. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39450	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Mihajlovic, the respected representatives of the building ministry and respected guests, fellow MPs, to continue the debate in this direction when we talk about the truth. The truth, even when we're talking about a law that needs to desecrate all illegal objects, they show built squares and no one can lie to us. The footage by 2012 and the record of 2015 clearly speak about how much worked, but by 2012 there were 1,200,000 illegal objects. So we're talking about a number that's over a million illegal objects. When we talk about this expansion, we are talking at the same time about legal solutions that changed both in 2003 and 2006 and in 2009 and in 2011, in order to put an end to the legalisation process in 2013 and now, in 2015, this process has to end. It's got to end for a lot of reasons. The urban chaos discussed by opposition representatives who will continue is simply not possible. We're putting an end to the robbery. Why? Because, according to European integration and all bilateral and explanatory screenings, there is an area that includes regulation and urbanism and what is called economic development and which says that the bases that are made at a given time must agree with the complete documentation that exists. This experience has passed both Slovenia and Croatia before becoming members of the European Union. Therefore, the urban chaos will no longer be able to extend. That is why there are European integrations that simply help the RGZ, as well as the legal solutions that we bring here in the Assembly that simply extending deadlines can no longer be. This is what we should clearly tell citizens today, that extensions, forgivenesss, construction after the completion of all these processes that relate to the buildings of these 800,000 which, within one year, will no longer be extended to local self-governments and construction inspection and commissions that will be formed. Don't let anyone give you false hope that there will be some new laws. They will not be there, because the ministry, headed by Minister Mihajlovic, has on several occasions also announced electronic building permits that will live on January 1st and those now living within 28 days. Simply, the process began, it was introduced into legal flows. The process that simply introduces order in this area has begun to run, and thus in general the functioning of the law that shows itself in every day of the government's government's authority, as well as the ministries that carry out, shows and delivers results in co-operation with local self-government. Therefore, everything you wanted to prove that there is no, that the reports should say that it is a marketing trick, there is simply no legalisation reports itself today, about the number of applications submitted, but it should be said that it should not be forgotten that 20,000 squares, an example, of an object called the "Belgrade Terrace" was found by the Belgrade authorities headed by the SNS and simply did not know what to do with such facilities. If this number of 248 demands, 248 000 demands only in Belgrade have shown that under existing laws by 2012 there was simply no possibility of ending. A certain set of laws covering the amendments and additions to the cataster, which includes the Law on Legalisation in 2013 and the law which now speaks of the law of all these objects, had to be stopped. But it must be helped to end the 248 thousand in Belgrade alone. As the number shows, when all about two thousand demands are processed a certain way, and that 230 thousand will have to be mutilated, the only possible solution is this way. It's a good thing that the structured profession in each segment of this definition of legal solutions is like a change and a supplement on the cataster. It is good that, in collaboration with all relevant entities related to this area, this solution is defined, but it is also good that it will simply solve many of the problems that ordinary citizens have. They have problems when they want to simply complete the legalization process. Big taxes that were for city building land, especially when we talk about Belgrade. The large documentation and procedure that should have gone one step at a time, which certainly could not have been completed within 30 days. A large number of taxis that were to be paid to local self-government. A major problem with insufficient capacity in municipalities that we defined as the number of building inspectors, but the number of building inspectors was not dictated by the Republic Government, it was dictated by local self-government, local officials with their local policies that employed or fired a number of professional people and who simply were unable to resolve many questions for legalisation of objects. Or there was no political will, and first there was no political will to get rid of it, but it was very good so-called. the maintenance of construction facilities, i.e. not the operation of construction inspection. That guard was somewhere creating a possibility for the so-called so-called. as some MPs call discretionary decisions, and those discretionary decisions were paid. They usually paid the owners of these buildings that were built. Now I'm asking a question here and a minister how it's possible that 20,000 or how we heard from my colleague, 30,000 and 50,000 square meters, all of a sudden they're coming up in almost less than a month without simply having inspectors reacting. As it is possible that these inspectors were never even processed, they were not even called to account, they were not even suspended because of the construction of such objects. How could these building giants just come out overnight, weekends, strips of red, re-enters the building, and no one reacts? After that, you apply for legalization and even enter the commercial sale of apartments that are part of such construction facilities. So this is simply not recorded in countries in the region, but in the EU countries that have arranged this area and it is completely incomprehensible. So it's understandable that today we don't have the exact number of illegal objects, but based on the demands that have been submitted so far, and we have a certain picture that this number of unrequited demands is about 800,000 which we want to complete by the time this law is passed. Surely this process will end because simply the basis with which it will be handled, the electronic recording at the time of the law, with all the objects that exist and the resolution of the complete documentation that each owner of that facility will have in certain status, will have to be completed, all after that, simply subject to the other part called the criminal policy, which is called inspection surveillance. That is why we have passed new inspection laws and this process and this process will be completed within a year with certain documentation. Therefore, such a bill is indeed commendable and should be said that it has now become large on local self-government. One part is that all the requirements for existing legalization facilities need to be completed and handed over to the catastro. The second part of the job is about recording and making reports of existing objects, because it's going to have the help of this electronic video that we're talking about. This big job simply, it is true that there will be difficulties because of these capacities we are talking about, but there will be commissions in which you will be able to hire engineers with a license. We have a large number of licensed engineers. Here, local self-governments include them in the work and therefore going out on the ground, and I think most inspectors know about all the facilities that exist illegal, especially in Belgrade. There are new technologies and new software that can show and show each of the objects what it looks like at the moment. So it won't be so hard to get into the field and write down all these objects. This kind of lawmaking will first and foremost solve many citizens and many families their life issues. They're going to solve the issue of records when we're even talking about the book of their objects, they're going to solve the question of mortgages, if they want to simply complete these objects, the internal structure, which they want to solve and their children's questions. So, will they be able to define, divide within the objects themselves, the apartments, where they will be able to live? Believe me, most of the citizens, 90% of the owners of these objects who solve their life issues, have been looking forward to this law being on the agenda. Don't let me tell you how many citizens have called and asked – we're not waiting for this law yet. Simply, I think it will be fully supported by citizens, and those 10% who simply won't be covered by this law or will have trouble legalizing these facilities, are certainly on the side of these construction giants of a few hundred thousand squares, because it has proved that many construction firms really have buildings and that they hide behind the names of the owners of these companies, precisely because they simply show the size of that capital they have. Apparently, they tried to legalize their illegal capital through the construction industry. Of course, names are always known and you'll know how their companies function and you'll know what they're called. Let's not talk at all about how great and great everything was until 2012, when, say, the Department of Construction Affairs Department, while Bellville was building for a year and a half, didn't issue a single building permit, just to sell apartments in Belville with the help of the Hipo Alpe Adria bank at that time and these credit lines, where the square cost 1,400 euros. And during that time, simply, there were no permits that were to be built on the Vrakar, and on Starar and Old Town, whose squares were then simply three times higher, and thus the value of these objects was totally falling, precisely because there were no permits issued to sell "Bellville" and thus came under the law of legalization and therefore the inspectors did not go out on the ground, and in a magical way thousands and thousands of squares were created in these municipalities. So don't talk about how great and great everything was, how it's going to continue to work that way. The Serbian Progressive Party, led by Aleksandra Vukic, and ultimately by Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, vice president of the SNS, introduces order, simply introduces a functional system of state administration that shows that simply with this mode of operation that was until 2012 it must stop, despite all the pressures of all the possible tycoons most mirrored in the construction industry, despite the pressures of all those who want to simply make such an illegal system work. And the resistances are certainly great in this kind of arrangement of the system, but to such resistance we all respond together to new legal solutions, new regulation, new simple regulation of the market at all when we talk about real estate. This Law of Law follows the amendment and addition of the Law of the Cataster. So it's very important to do the cadastre because it's always been a problem, it's always the biggest line of waiting where there's a cadastre in Belgrade, because it's always complicated property-legal relations, this kind of arrangement that you reduce the pressure, or you edit property-legal relations, or you force the citizens of Serbia to have their relationship offices. That just all of those events that we're witnessing for years should start to work, and that's that everything that defines the contractual basis has to go through the cadastre. That's why we've had in the last 15 years of happening that there are 100 people on certain plots, and half of them are either not in Serbia or have long died and when consent should be given to edit or build a certain building on that plot, it was logical that it was not possible to build any object at all because of it. In the end, I would just say that by correcting all those injustices that were now simply 90%, 95% of the practically owners of these objects we are introducing into legal flows, we are giving a new face to Serbia. We are practically giving investors a new call for the inflow of foreign direct investment, precisely because Serbia is becoming a fully regulated state when it comes to the construction area and that is what is important that those who give great criticism to this law simply do not know what they are doing, and forgive the minister because the time it brings will simply show that DS will not be able to have its voters at all, because it has done everything contrary to the interests of citizens. In voting day, we will surely support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39451	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go, Mr. Kiric. Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39452	Dear Mr. Chairman, Ms. Minister, dear colleague and colleague, here we are today discussing these laws, and it is obvious that almost 99% of the debate is precisely directed towards the Law on the Law of Objects. So, first termologically very strange choice, but okay, it's just one superficial remark. I think it is essential to say that this law is truly first deeply unfair, secondly very difficult to apply and deeply corrupt. Why unfair? We heard ourselves in that analysis that about 60% of the objects are precisely those of people who have scraped some money in the 1990s because we have talked about both sources and reasons why this number of objects in Serbia has been illegal so far, where people have been tolerated because they built a roof over their heads and DS will certainly support any attempt to legalise the facilities of these people who have the only space for living and raising their families and there is about 60% of the facilities of those less than 100 of the war. We also have an additional percentage that about 80% of those who deserve over 100 squares, but we are deeply against legalising facilities and business but also intended for the market and over 1,000 and more thousands of squares, that you send with the adoption of such a law and a proposal in the National Assembly a double bad message to all those who have so far built by law and with permits and respected the state, because how they will feel after the adoption of this law, and that all laws should be respected and built with permits. On the other hand, it is possible for those who have built flats in multi-story rooms and who can make very high profits for very little money and we have heard about it today. Which makes it difficult to apply, because this is obviously the approach of the current government and the prime minister that he usually places his own responsibility on people who run local self-government. Here we have heard clear arguments why local self-governments do not have enough capacity to implement this law within the time limit prescribed, which is 12 months. We heard that a total of about 300 construction inspectors work in Serbia with about a million and a half estimated buildings. Here we heard in Uzica 20,000 with two inspectors, it's 10,000 objects per inspector, in Nis 50,000 estimated, for a dozen, slightly less than 10 building inspectors for an average of five thousand need processed objects during the year, and we have 40 and some municipalities and cities that have no inspectors and who won't be able to do this job the way this law provides. But in this missing capacity, we can also recognize what will essentially happen in the next year and why the law will really be unfair, which is that with these small capacities it certainly has the advantage of those with the largest facilities, because inspectors will focus their first activities precisely on those who can pay the most and those who have the highest interest and the highest capacity to provide conditions for the completion of this process. What's he corrupt about, us? Because we are now hearing arguments in this debate, so many times mentioned pasture and the likely mention of this pasture and in the follow-up of the debate, but I would like to hear your answer, Madam Minister, to these headlines in the newspapers in which today's newspaper says: Zorana legalises Tom's cottages; or legalizes, whatever. (National MP Goran Ciric shows photos) All Serbia knows that in a protected belt there are these cottages with these photos and I would respect your principle when criticising both pastures and other illegal construction if you and fellow MPs had said by what critical word and about this willingness of the president of the state to build on a protected belt. It is a message to all Serbian citizens that it is possible to do such a thing, and it is doubtful that this law, among other things, is brought with such motives. I would like you to deny me and say now that you will accept the proposals and amendments made in Article 5(4), where this exception of cottages and holiday homes in the protected area will be excluded from this article. This would show your principle and say that, we take care and advocate that all citizens of Serbia are equal in the right to find their roof over their heads, but also that the most responsible people in the country respect, above all, the laws, but also to worry about, about the protected belt, about the fight against floods, about what has happened to us in recent years, but also about those protected areas and where large cities provide themselves with the necessary resources for life, drinking water, disabling illegal construction, not legalising those cottages and houses that are tens of meters away from the accumulation of drinking water with septic caves and how to protect the health and safety of our population. So I repeat once again the position of the DS parliamentary group, that we know and believe that this law is, above all, unfair, and we have shown that it is hardly applicable precisely because of the lack of capacity of local self-government and that it is corrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39453	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39454	I would still ask you to vote in favour of this bill, because this bill is in the interest of Serbian citizens, and I believe that all MPs here want to work in the interests of Serbian citizens. I'll give you a few explanations. I've repeated it a hundred times, and I'll repeat one hundred, two, three, as long as it takes, that we'll certainly specify the provisions that are undeniable, and I'd say you've mixed something up. One is national parks and one is the nature parks of the first and second degree, mentioned in this Article 5, and the second is the water-flow protection belt. There is no construction in either variant and no law under all of your laws, no existing one that exists, and not according to this one, which I hope we will adopt here in Parliament. When we talk about the inspection, it's time for the list to be carried out for 12 months. We as Government and this Ministry, first of all, when we passed the Planning and Construction Act, did not leave local self-government aside. We work together with them, and we will continue to do so in the implementation of this law. They won't be left to themselves, and they'll have enough capacity to realize this law. This is only the first step to adopt the law, and the second equally important step is to apply the law in practice. And of course, our responsibility will be, therefore, above all to me as minister, to apply the law in practice, such as your responsibility is 1.5 million undeveloped objects. I'm telling you, we're gonna get this job done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39455	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39456	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I would certainly take the opportunity at the very beginning to refer once again to the legal solutions that we are discussing today, so, all of them, without exception, and in a few seconds, not more, of your time, to one of the proposals that has been neglected in part during today's debate, which concerns the draft law on changes and additions to the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, which deserves to be mentioned, because I believe that we are indeed going to meet the proposed solutions to improve matters concerning the registration of immovableity and the right to make available to them, to improve the efficiency of work in the competent office, to form appropriate conditions for e-business, adequate protection of personal data, also more effective system of protection. In every sense, all the good, commendable things in the spirit of our time. I believe that even after the analysis of the amendments that have been submitted to the text of this law, the situation will be even better. Certainly the most time we've spent today to discuss the law on the law of object law. Understandable, logical, very interesting topic for a wider citizen. I must say, we are far from putting our heads in the sand, as one of the speakers mentioned today. On the contrary, it is very easy to speak in support of this law, very easily, because it unequivocally contains useful things, useful solutions for our citizens. We talked about it more than once today. I do not want to repeat too much what the Minister and counterpart Rakic explained, but also other distinguished colleagues who represented as official representatives of their parliamentary group, who spoke in favour of the support of this law, and other colleagues who have also supported these solutions. But it is not too great to say one more time, so let it be all in three or four sentences, what is good and accomplished. So one big and important problem, big and important problem, the legal problem we're trying to solve in an adequate way, finally, that what's going on for a very long time, and that's an important problem by the fact that we're talking about, and that's what we're talking about today, about 1.5 million objects. Imagine the order of size, deserves to be treated as something of particular interest and special importance, as we have said, of public interest to the Republic. The dimension of the problem qualify him for this treatment and deserves everyone with special attention and respect, I'd say we're dealing with this issue. Unfortunately, not all speeches and suggestions and all the loud thinking went that way, and it should be different. Once again, let him look at every dimension of the problem, its significance, so he'll understand why I'm saying this. What's to be achieved? It is achieved that thanks to those solutions that are more than acceptable to esteemed citizens, there will be a final disseminating of this kind of knot, solutions that mean, to mention once again, a procedure that is fast and efficient, only one solution, without subsequent permits, a procedure that has been relieved of what we call administrative fees and, finally, that tax on law enforcement, which, I repeat, is more than acceptable to our citizens. Once again, let me mention the amounts we're talking about. We're talking about the amount of 5,000 dinars for the least effective surfaces and that when it comes to housing that is intended for family housing will go up to no more than 50,000 dinars for those with the largest surfaces. I don't think anyone can stand up and say they're not acceptable amounts. But on the other hand, I have to testify, we all attend one very strange, confusing situation. Today we listen to a certain, diverse noise message coming from the opposite side of the hall, a diverse noise of messages trying to find room for criticism at all costs. Well, here we are, and in a strange situation that, for example, What's considered a good intensity, a good idea, which, I quote, is hard to argue on the other side of the hall, that it's so unequivocally clear that it's hard to say anything against it. Today these same people call something bad, something wrong, we even had a big classification of unfair, corrupt and hard to apply details. What was difficult yesterday to challenge on the board as an unequivocal good, now suddenly it becomes unfair. Very strange. Furthermore, to hear from that same side that generally this solution, this idea is good, and better than the previous one that dealt with this problem, so that some even propose amendments, I have tried to use the time to look at them in detail, the same thing that colleagues with whom the benches share afterwards in the principle debate regret, or what they point to as some big flaw. I can interpret it on my own side in just one way, as the need to make a certain atmosphere of criticism again, point to finger, and where there is no such place to break down the atmosphere again and try to put something on the burden where absolutely no need for it is needed. Why, for God's sake, it's so hard to deal with good things that until yesterday as much as we already do, without the burden, the kind of burden on ourselves with the big shot, we can all think of each other as useful for the citizens. I don't believe that's hard. I believe it's much easier and more natural than forcing yourself to be angry, if we don't feel it or we're looking for an excuse in something that's good for the citizens. It doesn't work with each other. Let's deal with this injustice, corruption and heavy application. Today we heard two approaches to justice. One was - are these solutions being brought into an unequal position by those who have so far acted by law and those to whom this law applies? Let's deal with some elemental logic. Is it in this law, in its nature, that it's about dealing and exception, that there was no such exception to the system, and you heard the order of the size of the problem, and now we're trying to find a solution for it? It's a de facto thing. If so, what does it mean to insist that something be arranged in such a way that it is identical to what the system had previously predicted, and what clearly could not be implemented in action? Why insist on being introduced into the same process with what could not be realised in practice? Is this a continuation of thinking in the direction of solving the problem or a return to the beginning or should we now return to the situation where the problem has arisen, survived and grew over a significant number of years? I'm not going to talk too much about the responsibilities of some over the years, or we should still be dealing with the question of how to solve the problem now, I guess it's as clear as daytime. The bottom line of this is that this problem is finally solved in the right way that this society is no longer burdened with it and that it's normal for there to be a difference, so of course it is. What's the basis of the solution if we don't find extra space? What's motivation if not becoming a certain difference? The second thing, much more problematic in my opinion, is that this is not being brought into the proper context and position of the people who need the law and who have the housing facilities for the family home and those who have built to achieve some benefit on the commercial market, i.e. that they are now in the same basket. A catastrophic untruth, ladies and gentlemen, and a completely unnecessary untruth. Why unnecessary? She's so easily verifiable that it's amazing. I can call all interested citizens. There is a long time ago, there has been a website of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on it in an appropriate format, an electronic format, all the texts of the laws we are dealing with here. Have them look into the bill we're discussing right now, find Article 33. Here's some more help on my part, I'm talking about page 18. Now, let each one for himself, without having to trust me or anyone else, see if there is a difference between what is treated to family housing, or objects that are family-owned by their nature, and those other people who are called, in that same text, residential and residential-business market. Let him check, if he finds the difference, and he'll see it at first sight, it's not that hard at all, and that's the difference. It's a difference, if we compare it to the highest amounts foreseen for the first category, family-owned objects of order size, two rows of size. If we look at the lowest, it's from two to four. Is that a small difference? So small that someone doesn't happen to notice it or it's about something else. I'll be free to conclude that something else is going on here. We have heard about the dangers of corruption, and on several occasions the threat of corruption is hidden in giving great discretionary powers, and after we have to hear a single word on the subject – where these discretionary powers are hidden, we don't hear any of them. Has anyone here heard that anyone who pointed to the problem of potential corruption of mention – here, for example, discretionary authority, that and that, is in the member of that and that? It's nobody. Why? Once again, the background and motive for such a thesis are not in the problem contained in the law, but in the need to say certain things, to make an attempt at an atmosphere. What else did we hear in favor of so-called. An explanation for this? The question of some weekends and several times we went back to it today and each time neatly heard the answer that those cottages and vacation facilities were mentioned, it says that they could be legal if they were in that so-called. First belt of protection. Every time we heard the answer explicitly – no. Therefore, this exception to the rules provided for in a certain position applied to the second degree, etc. I agree in that sense, if it's necessary in any way technically correct to make someone more readable, more understandable, even though I've personally understood from the beginning this way, the second degree, nothing more, then let's do it. There's nothing to argue about. It is a dispute when trying to make it a difficult story, a tabloid character, and some sensationalism in an attempt, so I suggest that colleagues on the opposite side of the hall exchange some visions and experiences while some have understood this the right way, so they didn't foresee putting it on the list of problems. I looked at their amendments. Some others have indicated in black that they see the problem in the first degree of protection. So they can be calm. What about the third one, who, regardless of the reasons, is one very clear attitude, short sentences, still going back to this question? I can only interpret that they obviously have a degree of protection, in which this exception is in any way permitted, is not a problem. Then what's the problem? The fact that some cottages appear in a protected zone at all. Is that it? If that's the case, there's no problem in finding the right answer, and I'm sure we'll find an appropriate understanding after that. So that no one who sees this debate as a question of these holiday facilities appeared today, that it was invented by a majority in this congregation or by a party. I don't know if you've been paying attention, at the very beginning of today's debate, we've been informed that this formulation that I'm talking about now, which many have spoken about today, has been taken over by a law dealing with nature protection. I found a member of the 70th Law and found in it the following – a protected area and its use can be prescribed and charged for what, under point 2. says, for example, for cottages and other non-commercial nature vacation facilities. What does that mean? Even then, it was completely new and logical that this kind of object could exist in that kind of zone and it was normal and logical that there was an appropriate fee for it and that the general system was dealing with it. Since when is this law? I'll read the numbers, 36/2009, 88/2010, 91/2010. Without wanting to get into that favorite topic of colleagues from the opposite side of the hall who was then, where he was in the state and society, let's just deal with the team who wrote it. If he wrote then, he was obviously aware that this was completely possible and normal. Why is that a problem today? I'd go back to that tabloidisation, that sensationalism trying. With a call to get serious about this, but every other one, because I guess that goes with this kind of work and this place we're in, I'd say goodbye to this point 2. - corruption. By the way, there was a question about whether or not someone in this room would continue to mention a certain pasture, so I'm afraid that the pasture will remain long in the memory of this people. Point 3. – severe applicability. We've heard the guy's grudges there's no proper personnel base and capacity on local self-government. We've heard that there's some kind of responsibilities translation going on here, that the Republic is trying to transfer some responsibility from itself to another. Interesting. When someone heard that, you'd think that local self-government had never taken part in the affairs of this nature before, had nothing to do with them, and now suddenly she's got to think about something she's met with for the first time. If necessary, and I hope not, because I believe that we are all reasonable people here, we can discuss in detail, and we can discuss the differences in terms of that legal solution that is in force, so let's see where the local self-government is mentioned. We might even notice then that everything we're talking about today, which is essentially important details, was then in the hands of that local self-government, so she wasn't involved in anything, and she wasn't involved in anything at all. Why is it hard to implement, because of a small number of frames, that someone characterizes this proposal as bad? Is maybe because there's a better way? If there is, it's interesting. I have not seen a proposal for this better way in the amendments I have submitted anywhere. Is there any amendment that makes a proposal, an appropriate solution to make this personnel base, that capacity could be improved. That's not what anyone gives. Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39457	Mr. Orlic, please return to the principle of law. We're at the amendment now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39458	Principle, principle, I'm talking about the law being good and that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39459	You've spread the story to the amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39460	... The objections that are directed are not serious. Thank you. I'm finishing up, thanks for the heads-up, you're actually right. As far as these proposals are concerned, they, like the law itself, are in each part, based on one clear reality, which I also consider to be good things in every law in principle. Based on a clear reality, there are capabilities that exist. What we also heard today is that in addition to the existence of this resource in the number of inspectors that exist, there is a possibility that this job that they need to be done in advance. We heard about the formation of appropriate commissions, and we heard that a lot of data will be downloaded automatically, precisely from those services we discussed today, before which certain procedures are being conducted. As effective as this will be in practice, we'll find out very soon. I believe in good judgments, on this point, which came from the promoter and I must tell you, I have never repented of this kind of faith since we met in this meeting. The other results on some other laws give me the right to believe I wasn't wrong, and nothing at all. This for the very end and this is literally the last sentence is, as we heard today, the pre-election law, just as much as any other law that happens in any period before the election, it doesn't matter a day, a year or four years, just as much as those bill proposals that come from the other side of the hall. If this level of grudge is the only thing that has to be put on the soul, I can only go back to that good, beautiful and useful intensity that is woven through this legal solution and say, in comparison to it, this, ladies and gentlemen, is so little that it doesn't deserve to be given any extra attention at all, let alone to endanger the possibility of mutually supporting something that is just and exclusively useful to citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39461	Thank you. They used the time of power, 20 minutes. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39462	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, before I go specifically to the laws, I have one comment on certain objections that go towards the Republic Geodetic Institute, that is, towards the cataster. He says that the catastre is not efficient, that the crowds, that the catastre must be true to the terrain, etc. I must remind myself, more for the sake of the public, that Article 117 of the basic law must be read, and I will read the first position because it solves all these dilemmas – it is necessary for the right to move within 30 days of the beginning of the change to apply for a change in the service for the real estate cadasar or the Republic Geodetic Institute. The Republic Geodetic Institute, or internal authorities, cannot solve any changes on the ground unless the owners or users report them to the competent service in the territory of that municipality. If users, or owners, do so, then the problem will be dealt with or dealt with to a large extent. So you can't blame the Republic Geodetic Institute for something that's not to blame. I agree that there are certain problems, etc., but in this part, I think users, i.e. immobilisers, are not doing their part of the job. Secondly, there are criminal provisions, and I, as far as I know, rarely have anyone been punished or prosecuted, almost anyone. Geodesy is a multidisciplinary science where mathematics is basically applied, and I don't think it's easy to work or reach a final product. The final product looks simple, but the previous many professional and what should be done professionally. I'll talk mostly about amendments and additions to the State Prime Minister's and the Catastrophe Act. A lot of people said and I think I'm gonna speed up, and maybe just pay attention to some things. This law speeds up the process of enrolment and the right to use them, the second-degree procedure re-translates to the Republic of Geodetic Institute, compliance is carried out with other laws, such as the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on Law on Law-Law of Objects, the improvement of certain legal solutions under the Basic Law, the supervision is that it is better resolved, new amendments to the amendments and amendments to the Law are improving the law itself, and there are specific and independent provisions. The solution is that in a better way the water cadastre, i.e. the underground and the highlands, is solved. No one here said, I don't think it's irrelevant, it's an estimate of the value of immovableity and the entry into the immovableity database, as well as the obligation of public notebooks to enter data on the price of immovable property into the price register. The entry in the immovableity catalogue is: the registration of the immovable property of the right, it also recommends notes. What they change and add to us, it's an extended list of immovableity credentials, which will increase the number of positive solutions, as well as the speed and discharge of the second-degree process. The first-degree administrative procedure, I think, must raise the quality of the work in that part, to reduce the inflow of the case in the second-degree procedure. There are more reasons, I'll list some that I think are important. The documents made up of public notebooks are documents that are of high quality and contain these necessary data where the Republic Geodetic Service or Service has the possibility to carry out quality changes. The responsibility of first-degree officials must be raised, and the organisation must certainly influence the organisation of work at the Republic Geodetic Institute, it must contribute to the first-degree process being done in a quality way, and therefore, we will have a minor inflow in the second-degree process, and I think that this will speed up the work of the entire Republic Geodetic Institute, and thus also the quality. The second-degree administrative procedure was moved practically from the ministry to the Republic Geodetic Institute, along with cases and people. My assessment, I don't think it should have been moved to the Ministry of Management, but it was supposed to stay in the Republic Geodetic Service, but what's there. I think this job will be more effective if it's done at the Republic Geodetic Institute. Furthermore, every serious state wants to regulate the area in the system of fixed and rights relations on them, i.e. First of all, this job needs to be done, to the most extent, by the Republic Geodetic Institute. The Republic Geodetic Institute is practically a set of internal organic units, i.e. catastres in cities and municipalities, and this solves the essence of almost the whole work of the Republic Geodetic Institute. There's data, there's a first-degree administrative procedure, there's supposed to be a required number of people, qualified officials. Furthermore, I don't think that average age contributes to a certain quality of work at the Republic Geodetic Institute, and if that's 53 years of average age in the Republic Geodetic Institute. New and younger forces should come along with this average that we have, which is not to be praised, will certainly raise the quality of work. We have in the Republic Geodetic Institute, or in the Catastres, the burden of new jobs. Next, deadlines are cut. I think we should also consider a new systemization, or organisation. It seems to me that we also need to solve some of the former immobilities cadastre centers that were an excellent buffer zone between the central Republic Geodesy Institute and the immovableity cadastre services. So, simply, that's my one good recommendation, and if it's estimated to be a good solution, I suggest that it be done in organization and applied. Every law, including this, is corrected by amendments, especially if they are meaningful and are submitted to repair and bring new quality in laws, in this case on amendments and additions to the State Prime Minister and Catastro Act. I hope certain amendments are filed here, and there's one that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39463	Mr. Matić, please, we have a debate on the amendments Thursday. Appreciate your colleagues' time, we have a lot of reports to discuss, and I'm asking you not to talk about the amendments now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39464	Thank you for the suggestion, but I think this is very important, given that it relates to the overall work of the Republic Geodesy Institute.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39465	But you'll have a chance Thursday according to the amendments, in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39466	If you're listening to me, that's two sentences, and I don't think they're gonna do anything wrong with all this. I think it is necessary to adopt the calls of a civil servant at the Republic Geodetic Institute, that they are called cadastrian referents or officials, and that the current situation in the salaries of workers of the Republic Geodetic Institute should be kept at an existing level, without diminishing. As far as the Law on the Law of Law of Objects is concerned, I'm going to have two sentences here, because I think today it's more about this problem than about other issues, which is that this law achieves simplicity, which is very important, it achieves speed and it's cheap. If we have this in front of us, if we have illegally built facilities, if we have 80% in physical persons, 15% in other users, I would note, however, that in the context of public property, state property, especially in public enterprises or smaller public enterprises, it should be noted that this applies to them and to their facilities, that they simply fell asleep there some, who simply did not make sure that these facilities were adapted or working with building permits and ultimately with the use of permission, simply this is their chance to repair their poor work that they had in the previous period. It's my suggestion and I think with this, Madam Minister, the State and the Ministry of Honor all who illegally built the facilities. If this very, very favourable chance is not used, I think we should go to the last steps, the last steps. I will vote in favour of the proposed law within my parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39467	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39468	Ladies and gentlemen, a respected minister, Serbia is a country where citizens, no matter what religion or nation they belong, like to build. Serbia has been building for centuries. We used to crash ourselves, they used to tear us down, but the essential thing is that you have 4.5 million properties on 7.2 million people is saying that we love real estate. It's a culture of life and that's the essence. Citizens in Serbia have had problems with the enrolment for the past 50 years. Somehow before World War II, when you look at those land books in the cataster, it was all written down and it was all true. For the past 50 years in Serbia, real estate has developed in different ways. All by law, according to the rules, one large part of the property of the Serbian state in the form of apartments, whether it was social, state-owned, solidarity, land, property, went to a small number of people who had direct direct benefits. Millions of citizens, generations of families funded a fund that primarily went to build these facilities. When you look at it, then you can understand that only a small number of parts of the population have benefited from it. These people who were getting these apartments, not that they didn't pay compensation for the construction land, they didn't even pay a real price for those facilities. When you look at that in Serbia today only one who has personally built, this one is in trouble today, and all those who have won are not in trouble clearly saying that things have to change. And this law on law enforcement, or law on legalisation, is essentially a law on moral justice for a large number of people who have never come into a situation to get something from the state. It's about citizens who primarily live in urban settlements, on the edges of cities, who had to build. When you ask them how they built, they say, we built how we could, how We knew, and where we could. Very rarely on construction land, and usually on agricultural land. They weren't just building their facilities. They built roads, they built water, they built infrastructure, they built schools, they built health facilities, and they built cemeteries. They were building on contributions, contributions, voluntary work, and something they did, from fields, made cities of fields. And that they were wrong in the whole process, yes. They didn't follow the standards, they didn't. If they had respected them and waited only for detailed urban plans in Serbia, today Serbia would be tents without a system of infrastructure at all, and with water supplies from wells that would also not have construction permits. Hundreds of times my neighbors told me how they built, how much they gave up and how much they struggled. And hundreds of questions were very simple. They ask me, "What shall we do, Goran, to pay, when we have built all these things ourselves? What are we going to do, Goran, and is the state going to pay us back the money we invested in the infrastructure, which she's supposed to give us on the basis of the compensation for the construction land we didn't pay and the interest of 60, 70, 80? In Serbia and for too long, you have said this today, the government has a bureaucratised mechanism of thinking about managing a state administration, in which the state wants to charge in the legalisation process in fact compensation for the construction land, with which it has not invested, while those who have paid, invested, even in part, re-paying for everything they have invested. That's why this law is actually one great justice. The point is justice, not so much finance, that those who built it have the right to invest what they have invested. The very notion of compensation for the construction land is essentially a problem. It's a problem because you can't see in the budget, you can't combine the clear benefits you get from that fiscal giving. Those who paid compensation for the construction land management did not have better infrastructure facilities than those who did not pay. Many towns in Belgrade are mentioned today. I would like to mention the settlements in Kragujevac, Ilicevo, Korićani, Dragobrac today. These are all settlements where there are a huge number of illegal objects. If, Madam Minister, if that compensation for the construction land, as we hear today, is greater, will these people get everything that belongs to them from the fee that we lifted two or three years ago tomorrow? Of course not. They live in a country that's been with them for 40, 50, depending on how long they live. When they go to the store in the morning, they pay VAT. They're paying their dues, and the state can't get to them with infrastructure. Even today, much of the citizens in suburban settlements have no water, no electricity, no infrastructure issue solved. It's reality, it's life. In such conditions they dream of a state that must look different. It's not good luck for the people of Kragujevac when they call asbestos barracks school. It's not luck for the people of Kragujevac when 50,000 Kragujevac citizens and their children don't have a sports hall. It's not luck, but that's what we have to change. We have heard very often today about commercial, large investors who have acquired millions of euros building buildings. And if that were the case, I would ask you, and how did we come to it? I live in the state of Serbia, and I know dozens of examples where the construction inspection has written solutions to the destruction of a small fence. I don't think anyone could have ever built any object without anyone seeing it. I may be coming out of the context, but I'm convinced that every big investor actually paid someone. And that the state of Serbia, which I as the Assembly, that some former congregations did not charge fiscal income and gave their fiscal income to someone else, objective to be, I have a problem with these people who have already paid, investors, taxing again. A large commercial investor and shortcomings in the privatisation process cannot be resolved by this law. What's a little depressing is not realizing that property tax is the essence of local administration's fiscal income, along with income tax, or profit tax, the future. It seems amazing to me when local administrations say they have a problem with eight thousand, ten thousand squares. You know, you have to have millions of squares, because for each one of those squares every year, you're going to charge a tax on property, and hence the local budgets are going to be bigger. This law, I say for the third time, is justice, justice for everyone. The Serbian Progressive Party is different and our burden and responsibility are greater, because we have to change first and foremost the key thing, the laws, of course, is easier. We have to change our minds, and consciousness is the hardest thing to change. That is why it is a great pleasure, not only in this law, but in these and similar laws, when we change things and when we bear the burden of responsibility for the state of Serbia, as well as in the area of legalisation and construction, as well as in the areas of economic laws, to be completely different. Let me finish at the end. Yesterday we discussed the Republic of Serbia's budget. You're an economist. To me, when we look at this law, it looks like a budget, respected all the principles of budgeting. You have the public, the clarity, the reality, everything that we have today in the area of construction in Serbia, and we hope that we will also have this law. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39469	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39470	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is now interesting with how many aspects we can have of seeing this law, and it was very interesting for me to hear it from the perspective of an economist. I would say first of all that, by talking here very often about laws relating to the area of construction and infrastructure, very often we have just mentioned illegally built objects as the biggest problem and we have always said that when this problem is definitely solved, that the application of many other laws will definitely go much easier. I hope, here, that's right in front of us right now. So, we should just point out again that mass illegal construction started in the '90s, that's what my colleague mentioned earlier, when they were mass migration refugees. It's just that everyone wanted a roof over their heads and it got out of hand somewhere, because it didn't exist, it wasn't adequately controlled and there wasn't a planical documentation that would have sent it all away so quickly, but basically, these are the situations that are justified. Here, today we have 85% of the family home and we are satisfied if these people resolve property-legislative relations and legalize their small homes that have managed to acquire in the country of Serbia. Today, according to our estimates, we have about a million and a half, as we have heard, illegal objects. This means that every third facility is illegally built, without a building permit, but unfortunately, the truth is that this is not the final number. So, more than once, there was a law that would solve this problem. It is possible that some people have already participated in this and who are sitting here in the congregation today, but it is not their fault. It is a pleasure if they too have found a final solution and if we finally have a law before us that makes a fundamentally new proposal on how to solve illegal construction. What is very important is what the citizens of this bill already welcome. So, according to experts, if we consider that for the previous year, according to the old law, about 1,800 objects are legalized, it would take us about 25 years to solve this problem. So it had to get into finding a solution urgently, so this law would first of all make all illegal objects appear to be written and that's what's very important for the state. It's primarily of public interest, to know what that final number is. So far, about 771,000 legal requirements have been filed. So, we probably have so many more people who should apply for legalisation and it is expected that 95% of these submissions will be resolved, 5%, unfortunately, will have to be removed and these are the objects that were built right on land that is not prescribed, meaning in protected zones, as we have heard, or built from illicit materials, meaning illegal material, in areas of protection, unfavourable soil, or if there is no possibility of actually harmonizing with existing or future planning documentation. So all possible parameters will be considered. When it really can't, such an object will have to be removed. So what's important is that the owners who have already filed the application will now, based on the application of this law, just pay the tax and the state will register, if, of course, everything is regular, into the cadastre and they become owners of their property. If they haven't done it so far, so if they fall within the 800,000, I hope it's not a larger number, they're going to have to take out another document, and that's a report on the founding state of the geodetic work lab, and that's what licensed engineers and geodetics are going to do on the ground. What I would very much like right now from my point of view is how serious this is a job waiting for engineers and geodetics on the ground. When an authorised inspector or an engineer monitors the construction of a building, he does it from the foundation to the roof. Here we're going to have a reverse situation where an engineer can't dig up the foundations, where he can't reconstruct the armature, he can't break the walls to see if it's really done right. So this is where both the state and the Ministry and all of us together will rely on the experience of these engineers who, of course, will guarantee tomorrow by their signature here. Of course, there will be projectors and contractors. So, immediately after the adoption of this law, the inspection will enter the field, determine, list the facilities and be obliged to hand over solutions either on possible legalisation or on demolition. Therefore, the solution will be delivered to both the owner and the competent law enforcement authority which will be obliged to take over in its own hands, unless the owner himself has applied for legalisation, i.e. the legislation of this facility. We've heard more times today that there's a problem which the staff, so building inspectors, has little and that's true, it's a fact, but surely we have a lot more engineers who have licenses and who will probably be very happy to get involved in the work of these commissions. I personally and talked to two Uzic building inspectors, as Užice was repeatedly mentioned as 12,000 legalization facilities and perhaps another five or six thousand come. They said that they could optimally satisfy ten objects a day, of course, that intensity will certainly be somewhat higher, but they are sure and very optimistic that with a number of people working in these commissions, they will succeed in 12 months to do this job. If people who have years of age, decades of experience, and if they say they can do it themselves, and they're sure that they'll be able to determine on the ground a factual state, then I definitely don't see why we would doubt it. I'm sure other cities will help. Unless a city has a building inspector or has a licensed engineer, I'm sure this kind of exchange will come in handy. So, as we heard, the earlier legalization procedure was complicated, expensive, and I guess that's one of the very important reasons why legalization didn't take place in time. So this law introduces a tax. The tax has just been paid for public authorities services, so to repeat for public reasons alone, up to 100 squares will cost 5,000 dinars, there will be a tax, 15,000 dinars up to 200 square meters, 20,000 dinars up to 300 square meters and 50,000 dinars for commercial buildings up to 1,000 square meters, over 1,000 square meters for commercial buildings will be two million dinars of tax. Although now the law of the family house needs certainly three times less documents and about 230 and several times will be lower than it would be when more than when calculated by square, however optimally large money will be poured into the budget and into local self-government. So it's estimated to be about 10 billion dinars, 60% of which goes to local self-government to invest in their own infrastructure. That money's gone by now, so anyway, this is a big commendation. Afterward, any attempt at illegal construction will be discouraged by the existence and production of satellite recordings that will be made, or have already been made, or will be made on the day of entry into force of this law. What I'd just draw attention to is that satellite footage, it's just a bird's perspective, here we see what's going on out of the air, whether a new object is being built complete, but also what's happening at the country level, whether new floors are being raised, whether they're coming up somewhere, it's still going to have to be done by building inspectors, so with this list, their work doesn't end at all. It will, of course, continue to be, that is my suggestion, to continue to be so, to avoid any possibility of unfair construction. The aim of this law is that citizens have their own legal facilities listed in the cadastre, that the state benefits from it and, of course, what is very important is that through this law we will also get some kind of reconstruction of the state diameter and that is what the changes and additions of the second law are about, and that is the Law on State Period and Catastrophe. This has been neglected for decades, we all know for what reasons, we've heard multiple times. So, the immovableity records, the rights over them, were simply ignored somewhere and entered and created some urban chaos in Serbia. I'd like to point out that this is the basic real estate record. This includes basic data, position, shape, surface, culture, bonity and everything else that matters. The immovableity catalogue is formed on the basis of the national diameter and these are the prescribed methodologies. These changes are made with a view to speeding up the entry of immovableity and giving greater authority to the Republic Geodetic Institute, which is also a great commendation, because they certainly have the greatest experience in carrying out this job. Then, they comply with the provisions of the laws that have already been passed, it is the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on Civil Servants. Then, the conditions for electronic business are created, which is certainly the purpose of this Ministry in every sense and in the exchange of information and in the issue of later building permits. Also, the processing of personality data from now on will be in line with the Personal Protection Act and, of course, to remove all the shortcomings that have been observed on the ground so far. What I would specifically point out is that so far the Republic Geodetic Institute will have much more jurisdiction and will have expert supervision of geodetic works that have an impact on the data on the diameters of the cadastres and the affairs of the compromise. A new type of land is being introduced, it's water land, it's been changed and on geodetic first-row licenses and, of course, it's going to provide faster entry of real estate, because the request is now being decided for seven days, in more complicated cases, it's going to be 30, but in seven days, the largest number of cases will be entered, documents will be released faster, modernized software is being introduced, so this one basic link in both urban and construction and when investments are concerned will definitely be repaired. In addition to these two laws, we have three more laws today and we have two agreements in the area of construction, infrastructure and traffic, and they will definitely bring significant effects and major steps in these reforms. So 40% more issued licenses and a 40-seat jump on the World Bank's Duing Business List, are certainly the result of much of the reforms and new laws in this area, so that large support of the Serbian Progressive Party in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39471	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vera Paunovic has the word, and then Nedo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39472	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People, the honourable minister and other members of the government, the bill that lies ahead of us has been trying to solve a huge problem that has existed in this society for decades, and that is the problem of lawless construction. The very fact that this phenomenon has been present since the 1990s, testifys to the complexity of this problem that is further reflected, both in the family life of our citizens and in the wider economic situation, since no serious investor will invest in facilities outside of the cadastrian records and in illegal legal status. Enough to say that according to a rough estimate of such objects that do not have all the necessary permits, there are now more than a million and a half today. The Law on the Law of Objects will try to correct this state. It provides for the simplest conditions so far for the legalisation of those unlawfully built housing facilities and which are the most numerous in this category, and thus will be respected the position of the Constitutional Court, which is, by abolishing the provisions that treat this matter in the Planning and Construction Act, it appears that the legalisation must distinguish between those who illegally built the facilities, in order to provide themselves with a roof over their heads and those who did so to earn profits. I therefore believe that it is entirely justified that earlier restrictions on legalisation have also been maintained in this proposal, i.e. that it cannot be implemented on buildings built on slides in protected zones and on public areas. I think a good solution that determines who has the right to apply for the law of the facility, that the provision in the bill is broadly laid down and that those facilities that were built after 2014 will also be able to enter the legalisation process, or all those objects recorded on the satellite video by a certain day of 2015. Here in the municipalities it will be a great task to write down all these facilities over the next year, then to make public announcements, and to first establish one precise record of all these objects as the basis for further handling in cases. If an object is skipped during the census, the owner is obliged to report it to a construction inspection, because otherwise his facility will be torn down. What is most important in this legislative proposal and what represents one fundamental and quality step that we all hope will be of decisive importance, in order to start this process from a dead end, is the number of documents that are necessary to obtain in the process and, more importantly, the costs of the process itself. In fact, the basic problems that affected the fact that previous legalisation campaigns were left without a major echo were that in these procedures, the simplest thing to do was to request extensive documentation for which the production and collection of which was necessary for a long time, as well as the paying of large costs for the production of these documents and for the different fees and fees in the process itself. All of this was initially refused by the vast number of non-legalised immovableities owners to go into the process at all, not out of some defiance to the authorities and the system, but because of the elemental fact that most of them simply did not have the means to enter the process. These proposed legal provisions seek to overcome these shortcomings by making documents as simplified as possible, so that only two documents will be requested – a report on the situation and facilities found and proof of property rights on the property and land. However, obtaining these two documents will not be such a burden for our citizens, given the current market price of providing these services in cities and we hope that even geodetic firms will not unwittingly and excessively increase in some future period. Another important fact is that the state has given up a significant part of the income through abandonment of the requirement to pay taxes for the construction land and administrative tax, and I think this is a good move, because most of the owners of the facilities through various kinds of self-organization and self-delivery have already created a significant degree of communal equipment. This time, one by one, a fair escalation of the amount of these taxis has been carried out where those who illegally built to solve their own housing needs will pay a smaller amount, while for legalising larger facilities and those who are intended to commercially pay a relatively higher amount, but who will be lower than some earlier legal proposals. For smaller houses than 100m square meters, the amount of tax of 5,000 dinars is projected for those slightly higher and is higher than 15 to 30,000 dinars in proportion to the area, while the amount of taxis for business facilities ranging from 50,000 to three million dinars. This law exempts beneficiaries of social assistance fees, single parents and people with disabilities. Dear People's MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group is aware of the importance of this issue, and in the voting day it will give its support for this law, but in the end I would have one suggestion. In fact, we are all aware that this is the sixth or seventh law that tries to solve this matter that falls within the area, so it requires a certain knowledge of more complex legal regulations, which most of our citizens do not have to that end. I therefore suggest to the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure that, immediately after the adoption of the law, a media campaign that would explain to interested citizens in a suitable and simple way the advantages of this law and the legalisation process, i.e. which documents and at what cost it is necessary to obtain and where and within what time it is necessary to hand them over in order to ensure that this response is really good and that the whole procedure succeeds in the mutual satisfaction of all parties in the process and that the law is implemented until the end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39473	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39474	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, given that the authorised representative of the SPS and our parliamentary group supported on behalf of the parliamentary group for the proposed set of laws, I will focus in my discussion, a respected minister, on only one of these laws, and this is the Law on Law-Law of Objects, and I will point out something that I believe so far has not been indicated in this discussion, and it is certain legal and technical solutions that can be better compared to those contained in the law, or the bill, which will, of course, touch a few essential things. The first essential thing, of course, that intrigues attention when it comes to this law, is the question of whether this law dissuases, possibly, the Law on Conversion, or whether in certain provisions, is encollecting with the provisions of the Law on Conversion, especially where property-legal relations are concerned, especially where it is concerned with land conversion with compensation and especially in those parts of the provisions of the Law on Conversion, which rely in any case on certain provisions of this law, i.e. the draft law. What is mentioned more often today is precisely the issue of regulation of property-legal relations as a very sensitive issue when the topic is the legislation of objects that have been illegally built. I'm going to start with the very initial provisions of this law, so I'm going to point out some solutions that you might accept, if at all otherwise, then through the amendments. In Article 3(1), paragraph 1 is not a controversial solution to the fact that the subject matter of law appears as an object that has been completed in a building sense. That's not controversial. But it is disputed that in the second position, something is normized which, however, should not be so standardized and said to be the subject of building law where the subject of legislation can be a building where only constructive construction works have been carried out. I would ask you to accept a legal-technical solution that can only be legalized construction works because we have the concept of building, building and works being done and carried out. The building, in the building sense of the word as a term, was completed, finalized. The building in the building involves precisely the building which is at a certain stage of construction, and here are the works that have in themselves the character of the works that have been carried out and which only as such can be legalized, i.e. legalized. What is standing in Article 4, and today it is several times suggested as a kind of dilemma, is a temporary construction permit and you, Madam Minister, suggest that the law is not applied to objects for which a temporary building permit has been issued in accordance with previously applicable regulations. I have to remind you, most of all, from the point of view of the profession, temporary construction permits haven't been issued for a long time. When issued, that building permit shall have its own manual duration, i.e. it shall be valid until the object's intention is brought to the issue of the plan. Now, given that this law norms a valid plan act, one question is raised that can in practical terms cause dilemma – What do we do when a plan act, for example, is an example, intended to expand the street, how in this situation to issue a valid permit? Our proposal in front of the SPS, or our parliamentary group, is that norms can say that temporary authorisation is not contrary to the current plan. If such a formulation were to be found in this article, it is certain to avoid the dilemma of the very essence and legal fact of the temporary building permit. What also causes certain dilemmas is another view of Article 4 which says the competent authority for issuing the applicable authorisation is obliged to issue a solution to the use of the permit at the request of the owner of such an facility. This is about an imperative standard. Such an imperative norm should not stand as such because, in a practical sense, it would be applicable by merely applying and then automatically by the competent authority, acting upon that request, or issuing an appropriate decision. We think that such an exophy of decision-making unconditionally cannot exist, because it would simply have to be contained in that norm that the competent authority should issue a valid authorisation on request only if the conditions provided for by law are met. This is not contained in this norm, and it should be specified and I think that some amendments submitted by the SPS parliamentary group should also be considered in this direction, in order to certainly improve the quality of this law. What we in the SPS parliamentary group understand very clearly is the fact that your proposal for a law is an exorbitant solution which, regardless of whether it enters justice or injustice, justice or injustice, makes legalisation literally of all the objects that are, of course, under the conditions prescribed by the law, so that I am not now misreaded, but there are also some categories, an esteemed minister, whom I am not sure should be, as it is said here today, "abbolized". In this position that is next, Article 4 states that this law does not apply to buildings for which a building permit is issued, which is used without a solution in use. The norm is then further that the solution to the use of the permit is obtained in accordance with the law governing the construction of buildings and forming a commission, etc. Now there's a kind of dilemma here, and that dilemma refers to one, per se, a simple thing that can practically occur often. If a building permit is issued, that does not mean that the facility is built under the rules of the ordinary procedure. Why do I say that? There is a possibility that a building permit was issued, but the investor worked in his own direction, hired a neighbor, hired anyone, failed to hire a supervisory authority, did not obtain atheists, did not obtain approvals on the quality of construction material that is being built into the facility. Then how are we even going to evaluate whether someone who has to pass the expert evaluation by the commission respected the legal provisions or not? According to us, in the SPS, in any case, such a dilemma, or phenomenon in practice, can happen. And what in any case deserves the greatest attention, at least in these initial parts of the bill, is to break the burden on local self-government, where you have provided that the unit of local self-government is obliged to return funds in the legalisation process, and that is, if the legalisation procedure requires the applicant to regulate relations with the local administration unit and in accordance with the provisions of this law, but the competent authority did not subsequently issue a building permit until the day of entry into force of this law. I ask you, dear minister, to see this far more carefully, not only because we insist on it, but because I fear that units of local self-government, both municipalities and cities, will be overly burdened about their budgets. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about why it can be very easy to happen that it's not the competent authority of the local self-government unit at all. Perhaps the investor acted totally passively, simply forgot to take certain activities that are linked to and to file requests for some of the other actions prescribed by law. That passivity does not go to the competent authority. The competent authority simply failed to issue the appropriate permits, and now we are in a position to place a unit of local self-government, because the competent authority has not issued an appropriate permit, we are in a position to be burdened by the budget. I think it's going to be a problem for local self-government units and that it can simply be something that's an unnecessary burden. As for one of the positions listed, which is the position that is related to the legitimately rejected requirements, I ask that we have indeed one of this particular kind of more critical observation of the practical situation, where there is going to be a judicial refusal of the applicant's application for legalisation, so that the appeal was rejected as unfounded, there is the possibility that he started an administrative dispute, so the Administrative Court rejected the administrative suit as unfounded and thus we come to the final procedure. The question is, can such builders be, as is said today, abolized? I don't think so, and I think it would be a pure privilege for those who don't deserve it at all. Since time is running out for me, I will shorten the discussion, I just have to point out two other things that I consider important when it comes to this law, and that is to look at whether it is in collapsing Article 6 with Article 13 of this Law, bearing in mind that Article 6 states that it is an obligation to conduct a procedure, when it comes to so-called regulations from what we pesoriously refer to as "the Great Law", in relation to Article 13 that regulates such a norm. Finally, given that this is a highly well-intentioned suggestion, I think we should consider all of what we've highlighted today as some kind of not only critical observation, in terms of improving the quality of the law, but also in terms of simplifying the very procedure that even in a practical sense this law is as effective as possible. No doubt you've done a lot of work on that road. No doubt there's more to be done. We will through discussion in particular, since I haven't arrived in such a short time all to point out, some more of our suggestions will be made and, of course, at the end along with you and with your understanding, probably some of these suggestions will be accepted and I think we will raise the quality of the law to a higher level in that sense. In any case, the support of this law stands and we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39475	Thank you. The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39476	Thank you. A respected minister, guests from the ministry, the problem of illegal construction exists back decades, when mass lawless construction and lack of any kind of control over illegal construction, but also the lack of planning documentation would allow legal construction. According to the data provided by the Republic Geodetic Institute, the number of objects which could not have been found to have a building and use permit is about a million and a half and the actual number of illegally built objects has never really been established to date. One of the solutions in this law is just trying to solve this problem. This law provides for the construction inspection to carry out a list of all illegally built objects on its territory within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law. The goal is to build a construction inspection, which did not do its basic job in preventing illegal construction and allowing buildings to be built and moved, to complete the work in a way that, after a legally established deadline, is the only reliable data on the status of the facility, we have the exact number of illegally built buildings in the Republic of Serbia. The status of these facilities differs under the terms of the legislation from the objects for which the application for legalisation has been filed, and in accordance with the earlier applicable laws. In order to allow the list of illegally built facilities to be done as effectively as possible, this law allows units of local self-government to be able to independently educate committees for the list of illegally built objects, as well as the auxiliary working body, which is extremely important in terms of the systematic resolution of this issue. Following the registration of objects for which no application for legalisation has been filed, the building inspector is obliged, and this is also foreseen by the Law on Planning and Construction, as a material regulation for construction, to make a decision on the destruction of the facility. A decision on the destruction of the facility shall be delivered to the owner of an illegally built facility and to the competent authority for the legalisation of the facilities, which is required to initiate the legal procedure under official duty. So, what's important to emphasize? It is no longer left to the will of the owners of illegally built objects to submit an application, but to file a state, treating this issue as a matter of public interest and self-rule and conduct the legal process. One of the more important motives and reasons for passing this law was to maximise the responsibility and obligations of the handling body, and it was also important to reduce the number of procedures, while the deadlines for handling were as real as possible. So far, the practice in this regard has not yielded good results, given that the prescribed short deadlines that no one respected, and the proposer, by establishing the real situation, were obliged to propose amendments to the law at one time simply because of the extension of deadlines. Each of the laws previously passed that regulated this issue has shifted the time limit until the facilities can be legalised, the legalisation work would not be completed even in the next 20 years, regardless of the fact that lawless construction in the Republic of Serbia has been a criminal offence since 2002. It is a devastating fact that instead of the number of illegally built objects being reduced, it has been constantly growing year after year and only growing. The main reason for the adoption of this law is the law of the largest number of illegally built objects and their introduction into legal flows. This law, as well as in most previous ones, cannot be subject to the legislation as being objects built in protection zones in accordance with specific laws, objects built from materials which do not guarantee the stability of the facility, objects built on the ground unfavourable for construction, as well as objects which cannot comply with the applicable planning document and objects which are not completed in a constructive sense, and the newspaper has been introduced in relation to previously applicable laws, which is very important to mention that a legalisation process already has been legally completed and which rejects or rejects the legalisation request cannot be re-apply with the application for legislation. The law of objects must not be regarded as a job that can be completed very quickly, but it is also a business that must be completed, and the deadlines for this law are, in the opinion of the promoter and my personal, real and feasible. The aim of the legislator of this law is to desecrate all objects that meet the conditions laid down by this law while at the same time preventing the creation of new illegal construction by applying these and other related laws in this area. In order to achieve this goal, it was necessary, given above all the economic strength of the debtors, to prescribe the amount of tax that will be able to bear and settle the largest number of users and to allow the documentation necessary for the application to be made, to be easily obtained by citizens. Thus, only two documents will be required for all who have an unlawfully built facility – a report with an embodies of geodetic works that makes up a company, i.e. another legal person or entrepreneur who is listed in the relevant register and evidence of property. The fees for legalising facilities of up to 100 square meters will be 5,000 dinars and up to 200 square meters of 15,000 dinars. It is important to note that money collected from legal fees will be used to edit local self-government. A particular problem to address this issue is the issue of regulation of property-legal relations, as one of the conditions for legislation within the meaning of this law. The bill offers a whole range of evidence of resolved property-legal relations, and a provision on the possibility of the facility being mutilated with evidence of property on building land only under the facility, and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction. It is important to note that any attempt at illegal construction after the adoption of the law will be prevented by making satellite recordings, as it will be easy to compare the state of the scene with the situation on the ground and a solution to the demolition is issued. Objects for which owners do not launch the legal process and do not pay taxes, objects for which the legalisation request was previously rejected, as well as facilities built in nature parks, will also be destroyed. Following all of this, and in order to improve and establish a stable and sustainable system that is suitable for a serious country whose goal is to join the EU, a system-based and efficient and reform law on object law should be adopted, and the SNS will vote in a voting day for the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39477	The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39478	The Honorable Chairman, Mrs Mihajlovic, respected fellow Members, in today's very extensive debate on several laws of different topics, I would like to take part only in a brief remark that will from a different angle comment on this draft law on the registration and registration of tenants indefinitely in the dwellings and the property of citizens, the borrowing and the foundation. First of all, I want to point out what I have noticed and I think it is very important that for the first time in a unique way a register of tenants will be made, which will be of great help to citizens who live in such dwellings that are property or foundation. In a certain way, the state will have a very clear record of their number and will be able to resolve their status, as well as the status of these tenants in a possible future relationship with owners, i.e. with responsibilities and foundations, which I believe is of great importance for the citizens themselves. However, what has drawn particular attention to me and what I would like to draw to the Minister's attention to and in some ways express my gratitude for coming through this register for the first time, as I understand it, and for the record of all those facilities, apartments, buildings and other forms of property owned by the employees and foundations. I'm just going to remind myself that, unfortunately, from that socialist time, we've shut down our assets, they've stopped working, huge assets that have been acquired and taught in previous generations with a particular task of having a job character, in terms of realising the general benefits and interests, she's stopped working. This property has been given for other purposes and for other purposes and has been used, many are state-owned or state-owned, but many are also used in other ways. I understand, this registration now, it will allow us to get that registration. It may have been possible to propose an amendment or otherwise to take advantage of this good move, to make a register of the property, but it may simply be within this unique register to isolate the part, because I draw attention to the fact that after 50, 60, 70 years, when the state fully actuated that property, when the law was before the 90s, I would simply call it a provisory law, which applied to the work of the employees, that we now have the Law on Indemnity, is not in your jurisdiction, but the Ministry of Culture, but a law which did not foresee that this important property was being controlled and that its place, its role and its origin was known. I now interpret this as very important and let it be your home registration, but this points to the need for your ministry to suggest and now Mrs. Mihajlović to ask you as Deputy Prime Minister, since you can have that role, to try with the Ministry of Culture in the future change of the Law of Deputies to consider this moment and to draw attention to it in this law. I'm just going to point out that in 1945, it seems to me, for the first time in Serbia, when the Law of Delegation was adopted, the property was directly controlled by the king at the time. It implies that even at this time when we want to return, when this government wants to restore respect for tradition, according to history, to the roots of ours, to take advantage of our responsibilities and philanthropy, we return this respect relationship for a number of reasons. First, to preserve that property. Let's say that I only comment on Nikola Spasic's task, half of the Prince Michael Street, Iguman's Palace, Kolarac, which has been used in a special way, but there are a number of such institutions and all of them, in my deep conviction, can be within the scope of the work they've been assigned, that there are no individuals who have been able to use small gaps in differences between individual laws and to turn that property into use for private purposes or private tasks, where in certain cases in previous years we have had the opportunity to see it. In this way, it would be ensured that this property is in the function of the state, i.e. respect for tradition. What we will accomplish in this way is to revive something that does not exist today. We develop private capital, we encourage it to live in many forms and forms of work to a different extent, but unfortunately there is no relationship, and there is no culture for that private capital to be in the function of the development of the state, in the function of cultural development. Philanthropy doesn't exist at the moment, but if we know and ensure that this property is protected, it will serve as an example that in future times we respectfully refer to those people who today or tomorrow will make their property known to the state for the sake of achieving general state interests. I therefore commend one approach which will be able to provide this registration, extend it and ask you to pay proper attention to your authority, energy and role in changing the Law of Delegation and this important segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39479	Thank you, Mrs. Dragash. The word has a folk MP, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, and let the National MP Stefana Miladanovic be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Jevtović Vukojičić, re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39480	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Madam Minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens. Today, we have a set of five legal solutions that the government, or the competent ministry, has brought to debate and debate before the MPs and there are also two agreements, and the realisation of these agreements concerns the activities of the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. What I want to say first is that it is done and built in Serbia. It's done every day and almost every place it's needed. In that sense, an agreement was signed between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of BiH in July 2015, which refers to the construction of the Ljubovija-Bratunac bridge and the construction of the natural border crossing. This says that bridges are built, that countries are joined together, that nations are joined together, and that economic development of one and the other countries is combined, and that a significant economic exchange between these two countries will be made over the bridge. Apart from the fact that, in Serbia, this government, as a responsible government, is working and building, it is also working towards the adoption of adequate legal legislation in order to remove those long-term periods of lawlessness, corruption, excessive administration and inadequate administrative relations towards citizens who are supposed to be in service and to serve as citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One of the proposals for a law that is in the service of citizens and which removes these shortcomings is the draft law on legislation. This government, as a responsible government and you, Madam Minister and your ministry, I would like to say that, apart from the legal framework of this law and that it has a social aspect, that this government has shown that it is socially responsible, and in this sense, the obligation to pay a billing fee has excluded single parents, persons with disabilities, as well as users of financial social assistance, meaning that the poorest group of the population. What I also want to point out, as far as the legislation relating to compliance with EU directives, with UN directives, with the directives of the Council of Europe. It's the Commercial Boating Act. I would like to say that this law is significant with several aspects, significant from the aspect of the strategic definition of this government and your ministry on the road towards the approximation of legislation and the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation, but this law is also significant from the aspect of what in a unique way, i.e. the first time introduces licensing as well as the licensing of agencies that provide services to ship agents. Why is this significant? Because in this area, a lot of them have been observed to exist in a gray zone. One of the government's strategic definitions is to translate the gray zone into legal flows, so that the state can benefit and, of course, those involved in the train traffic. Of course, this law is in line with the water traffic development strategy adopted by the state of Serbia in 2015. - 2020. There's no doubt that the SNS in voting day will support all the bill's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39481	The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Let the MP Mirjana Djokovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39482	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, co-workers from the Ministry, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today, unlike most of my colleagues, I will explain the laws that are on the agenda today from the field of traffic. Unfortunately, these laws remain today in the shadow of the law relating to immovableities. The proposal for a vehicle crew working time law in road transport and tachographs is a new law that unites existing regulations and introduces certain newspapers into the area of traffic. In view of the discrepancies of the regulations governing international and internal traffic relating to the obligations of the driver, i.e. crew, time of management and rest, as well as issues of control of those times, i.e. the use of tachographs, the proposal to adopt a law which will unilaterally regulate the application of all regulations is the best solution, because currently of the rules governing this area is the first Transport Safety Act on the Roads, in fact only three members of this 243 or 245, then the Government Regulation that relys practically on this law. It regulates the area of driving time and rest when carrying out international transport, the process of issuing tachograph cards and the procedure of authorising workshops for tachographs. In the first part, this Regulation applies to international transport, while in the second part to tachographs and workshops. Otherwise, only the time of rest and management for the driver on domestic transport provides for the Road Safety Act, in fact Article 244 also provided for the adoption of a sublegal act that has not been adopted so far. On the basis of the laws and regulations, the Agency for Transport Security also adopted sublegal acts relating to matters in the field of tachographs, the Regulation on workshops for tachographs, the rules on the programme and how to pass examinations for technicians in tachograph workshops and the rules on how to use tachographs relating to the obligations of drivers and carriers in the use of tachographs, but only in domestic transport. Serbia is a signator of the European Agreement on the work of the crew on vehicles carrying out international road transport. This Agreement defines the driver’s obligations with regard to the time of management and rest and the conditions to be met by tachographs in respect of construction, as well as the way in which they are applied. It was only partially introduced into our legislation, as I said in this government regulation, while international transport is carried out in accordance with a regulation that is largely in line with both the European Agreement and the EU directives. In this context, when it comes to the rules on the management of freight vehicles and the use of tachographs, no major changes are expected for international transport operators, but newspapers are important for that part of the transport business relating to the internal market. The first part of the law regulates drivers and crews, i.e. the obligations of drivers and carriers themselves, taking into account the nature of the work carried out by professional drivers, and it is in itself specific to other professions, it was necessary to regulate this area more precisely and regulate it by the last regulation. EU policy through the directives introduces this practice. The first step was to adopt the Labour Act, which stipulates that special regulation regulates the working time of employees in the area of traffic. Also, the working hours of these workers had to be more precisely defined, given that the Labour Act, members of 64 and 65, defined the daily workday vacation, but did not know the institute of shortened and divided daily holidays. This is exactly one of the specifics of the professional driver's profession. In addition to the protection of crew members, it was particularly important to regulate the safety of road traffic. In order to achieve competitiveness, the law provides for a level playing field in domestic and international transport, I have already said, the crew's working hours in road vehicles can last for the longest 60 hours a week, with the average working week at a level of four months not lasting longer than 48 hours. The obligations of employers define more precisely, provide for certain sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the provisions concerning crew working time, thereby further safeguarding workers' rights, and indirectly affecting traffic safety. Part two of the law regulates all matters of tachographs. There have been no major changes in this segment, but all the regulations that I have stated have been united and complemented by some new provisions. This law actually provides for a subsequent installation of speed limiters. This is extremely important, as since 2011, in fact, since 1 July 2011, a provision has entered into force that defines the obligation to own this speed limiter in vehicles registered for the first time in the Republic of Serbia. It was necessary to provide for this by law, because the speed limit is technologically related to tachographs, so now the tachograph workshops that meet the conditions will be obtained by the Traffic Safety Agency and the permission to install these border guards. The tachograph workshop can no longer be in the form of entrepreneurs, as the workshops are defined as works of general interest and from now on only companies or public enterprises will be able to deal with this activity, and entrepreneurs who have worked so far, as we understand, will continue to work until the end of the license. The Agency for Transport Security has also been more specifically defined and the Agency is overseeing the ministry, i.e. the inspection of the Ministry of Traffic Affairs. Penalties have been eased against the regulation, which have been too high so far, and there has been no graduation sentences. Since the law involved, not only the ministry's colleagues, but also the expert team from the Transport Safety Agency, but also colleagues from the Traffic College, I would say that practically all solutions are aimed at a more efficient business economy, and in that sense we will also support this law. Another new law is the Law on merchant shipowners, which regulates transport and conditions for access to the market, i.e. to carry out certain activities in water transport, real legal relations on board, responsibilities and liability limits, navigation contracts, stopships, execution of security on board, as well as other important issues. This law practically regulates this area after 40 years. The Law on Maritime and Inland Navigation regulated this area in its own way back in 1987. Since this very large and legally required law is specific to many things, I will, in accordance with the distribution of time I have for discussion, mention only some of the newspapers. The draft law provides for the protection of competition, provides for new ship's mortgage items, the introduction of licences, the passing of a professional examination, the establishment of a public registration register of licensed drivers and the conditions for obtaining licences for the performance of drivers. In any case, this law will contribute to the development of this business branch, and I would say that this is the only kind of traffic that has so far not had clearly arranged property, i.e. trade-legal relations and the Socialist Party of Serbia will fully support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39483	Thank you, Mrs. Miladanovic. The word is Mr Mirjana Djokovic, and let the MP of the people, Djordje Cabarkapa, be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39484	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members of Parliament, I will focus my discussion today on two laws, it is the Law on Law and the Law on State Prime Minister and Katastre. In Serbia, therefore, one third of the facilities were built without a building permit. There are 1,476,433 illegal buildings in Serbia. If we look at what's been going on for 18 years, a total of five legalization laws have been passed. According to current regulations, it would take 25 years for it to end. The 771,000 applications for legalisation have been filed in Serbia so far. The issue of illegal buildings in Serbia is an important issue and the issue has a public interest in the Republic of Serbia. It is no longer left at the will of the owners of illegally built objects whether they will submit a request, but rather by treating this issue as very important, it itself is running and running the legal process. The devastating fact is that the number of illegally built objects has grown year after year. The main reason for the adoption of this law is the law of the largest number of illegally built objects and their introduction into legal flows. The proposal is that this law maximises the responsibility and obligations of the acting authorities to simplify procedures and that the deadlines for handling are realistic. It is very important to point out that the promoter shares illegally built facilities on residential and commercial, or facilities intended for the market, public buildings and engineering facilities. The proposal is fully secure of the challenges and responsibilities facing engineers who will make up a report on the situation found, since many important facts cannot be established in a reliable way, because the object for which the report is produced is in use and is in regular use. In all these situations, we will rely on the expertise of responsible designers. In the enrolment, such an object is equated with the immovableities that are entered under the applicable authorisation in the ordinary procedure and such objects can be trafficked without any restriction. The question of tax and its height is one of the key issues for resolving this law, and we know that the former fee, which was provided for by the previous Law on Legalisation, is high and inappropriate to the payment capacity of the persons to whom the obligation has been established. The question arises - what was the country's predominant goal of achieving this law on legislation? First, it is a legitimate requirement that the state has a precise record of all immovableities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, all objects built against the law to put into legal frameworks, i.e. that the category of owners of illegally built objects is equal to the owners of objects built in accordance with the law. With this law, the Republic of Serbia, along with the minimum requirements for geodetic and technical conditions and other evidence, is legalising facilities in the public interest, thus establishing its own records on its territory and directly affecting the area of spatial urban planning and creating conditions for rational use of construction land. Under the new law, 238 times the legal costs for family homes are lower, and three times less documents are needed to mutilate a family home. During your presentation, you, Minister, have declared the heights of the taxi, and have mentioned my colleagues, so I will not repeat myself. The owners of illegally built buildings after the adoption of this law have only two options, to enforce legislation or to be destroyed. The aim of the promoter is the mass law of objects built against the law, while at the same time a preventive action on the creation of new illegal construction through the application of specific laws in this area. As regards the second law, the Law on State Prime Minister and the Cataster, it is necessary that the procedure for enrollment of immovableity should be taken into account by introducing new procedural rules which should allow the procedure to be terminated as soon as possible, without delay. It is significant that the proposer of this law realizes the importance of carrying out expert surveillance of geodetic works, and this is necessary to perform one-branded and more effective work on all geodetic works that are influenced by data of diameter and cataster, i.e. geodetic catastrian information system. This law also stipulates that the first-degree and second-degree procedures which are not completed until the date of entry into force of this law are to be completed in accordance with the provisions of this law, that the procedures of professional supervision of the implementation of geodetic works carried out by the Geodetic Organisation, agreed before the entry into force of this law, will be completed and delivered in accordance with the provisions of this law in paper form until the establishment of electronic office operations and the corresponding Internet presentations. I would only refer to Article 17 of this Act, which stipulates that the setting of the order of the Immobilization Court is now being carried out according to the time schedule of admission requirements, not submissions, as has been prescribed so far. Article 68 states that the Geodetic Organization cannot review and verify the geodetic backgrounds it has developed and is specified to be derived from the database of the geodetic cadastrian information system issue and certified only by the Institute. Realising the seriousness of the adoption of these two laws, I will certainly support both of these legislative solutions with my colleagues in the SNS parliamentary group in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39485	Thank you, Mrs. Djokovic. The word has the People's Messenger George Chabarkapa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39486	Dear Presidents, a respected minister with associates, respected MPs, I will draw attention to the draft law on the application and registration of tenants indefinitely in dwellings in the citizens' property as part of a joint and unique search. I believe that this law on the recording of apartments, whose users are so-called protected tenants, is the first stage in solving this problem. Three of them are basic. First, it's the position of the tenants themselves. Secondly, those are the rights of former owners. Thirdly, this is the obligation and role of the state in the permanent resolution of the status of protected residents and property rights of owners. Citizens living in these apartments, based on the right to lease indefinitely, generally received these apartments after World War II, in buildings that were in charge, houses or residential buildings that were private property, and were acquired by the state on various grounds under the rules of that time. The tenants exercised this right after the acts in force, but without the right to buy that other tenants of social property have had since the time when the state allowed the purchase of apartments in social property. Because of such apartments, these citizens had no legal right to resolve their housing issues in another way, so they could not compete in their businesses, institutions they worked in, even though they singled out contributions to residential construction. They were thought to have settled their housing issue by obtaining these apartments. The tenants at an indefinite time of these apartments are today mostly our senior citizens, who were still well-deserved citizens, respected professors and doctors. The category of tenants indefinitely, i.e. the beneficiary of dwellings in the property of the citizens, in the responsibilities or foundations is governed by the current Housing Act and this law has been defined that they cannot buy apartments. The number of these tenants has not yet been accurately established, although the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure collected data in late 2012 and in early 2013. However, since the issue of the record was not passed by law, many local self-governments have not provided their data. Therefore, it is necessary for the State to provide a legal basis for the collection of data and for the establishment of accurate records of these apartments. According to incomplete data from the survey, there are over 3,500 apartments, and according to estimates of the private-owned user association, which has been seeking to solve the problem together with the state for years, between 15,000 and 20,000 citizens live in these apartments. This certainly isn't negligible information. I believe that experience, records and suggestions within these and other associations would help to collect data and should include them in the implementation of this law. On the other hand, we have the old owners of these apartments and their descendants, of which the largest number has filed for restitution. For this, the state must rightly address the situation of the tenants indefinitely and the problem of the owners who seek their property that the state must return under the Restitution Act. So the state has to protect both the tenants and the owners. Both have the right to legal certainty. I would remind you that the Restitution Act states that the status of the tenants will, indefinitely, be resolved by the housing regulations. These citizens need to be taken care of. Therefore, their rights must be governed by the Housing Act as soon as possible, which should generally undergo changes because the basic text of this law has been valid since 1992. That is why I urge that the new housing law be adopted as soon as possible and this issue is settled permanently. Finally, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, which also takes care of the social aspect of this problem, about our citizens who have not permanently solved the housing issue and tomorrow can be found on the street, I support the adoption of law on the application and registration of tenants indefinitely in dwellings in their own citizens, responsibilities and foundations, as expressions of the state's determination to resolve this problem permanently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39487	Thank you, Mr. Chabarkapa. Your task force has no more time. The word has a folk MP Vesna Simic, and let Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic register. Here you go, Dr. Simic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39488	Thank you, Your Honor. Given that today we had a several-hour debate in which all my colleagues who spoke before me presented all the positive points that the Bill of Law on the Law on Objects, and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Time and Catastra, I will not repeat that with them. We've all heard how many objects have been illegally built so far, the reasons for illegal construction. We have heard about how many attempts to get legal solutions out of illegal flows, but so far there has been no movement, but it will certainly be with the adoption of this law and its introduction into the legal procedure. I fully agree with the opening part of Ms. Minister's presentation when she said it was a crucial law, referring to the Bill on Law on Objects, which I am sure will reduce corruption, which the minister also said, and hit the construction mafia hard, however, that was also the goal of passing the proposed law. So I'm not going to talk about new legal solutions to procedures being simplified, I'm not going to talk about deadlines, since we've heard a lot about it today. What I will point out for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is the legal process that begins with the list of illegally built buildings on the territory of each municipality. This task will be carried out by building inspections or, where there are not enough, specially formed commissions to form municipal leadership. There is also a deadline within which they will have to carry out their duties and will no longer be able to flee from their responsibilities, as it was in the earlier period. Also, in order to reduce costs and procedures, the ministry has drawn up a draft report on the founding state that fills the authorised person. After the entry into force of this law, education will also be carried out for all persons involved, and besides the education of staff, the Ministry plans to create a special guide for owners of illegally built buildings. All of this is of particular importance to our citizens who, I'm sure, want their objects to enter legal flows. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border and Catastra, I have also heard here today very good legal solutions in previous discussions that will reduce the lines in front of the counters in the immovable institution and which will also make it much easier for our citizens to exercise their rights. We have heard that one of the newspapers is foreseen by this law that the geodetic licence of the first degree can now acquire a face with basic academic studies of at least 240 points, then that geodetic organisations will no longer be able to carry out expert supervision of the work in the field of land-based land-use planning, but only the Republic Geodetic Institute. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law will therefore reduce the lines and thus provide for the issue of documents in the form of an electronic document. What is always of particular importance to citizens, when it comes to the adoption of a new law, is the question which costs the law will create for citizens and businesses. In particular, the application of the law will not generate additional costs, and a circle of persons who are exempt from fees is extended. So the question arises – did all interested parties have the opportunity to declare the proposed legal solutions? The answer to this question is yes. In a public debate held between 18 May and 8 June, they had the opportunity to make all known, and how profession associations, such as. The Geo-association, which has made observations that have been accepted and entered into the text of the law and the bar, which have provided several positive provisions which have also become an integral part of this law, and which I am particularly proud of, since I come from this profession. Given that this is about good laws, about circular laws, about laws that need to be introduced into order matter of property-legal relations and to stand in the way of a gray economy, I will support proposed legislative solutions in the voting day, and I am sure that all my colleagues from the SNS will do so, as well as all well-intentioned MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39489	Thank you, Dr. Simic. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, and let the MP Marko Atlagic be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39490	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, in my presentation, I will be briefd on the draft law on the law of lawlessly built objects. I find this bill necessary. I believe he was extorted under pressure from facts on the ground, which is a million and a half illegally raised objects, and I believe this law has a status of public interest. This bill is indeed intended to legalise lawlessly erected objects and we are forced to pass this law and to legalize what is of its origin, i.e. The construction to this day was against the law. In particular, I would like to mention those citizens who still obtained all the permits, paid taxes, paid the introduction of infrastructure facilities, in one word invested in the community, respected all the regulations, aware of all the assets that the parasites had and paid nothing. For this reason, precisely because of these citizens, I have a moral obligation to mention this too that this government is headed by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic is determined to arrange this matter and put things in order. We're determined to remove an epithet of land that's full of illegal objects, whether residential, whether business or manufacturing. The bill, unlike the previous laws, does not provide for the impossible, but in a realistic simple way gives everyone the opportunity to introduce their object to the legal system of this country, which will satisfy the public interest, but also the interest of those individuals, the property owners, is the very registration of the property into the public books of their real estate to gain value. Significantly reduced expenditures, simplified procedures in the legal process will lead to, I'm sure until the legislation of a large number of objects, and Benefit will have all of us, the whole society. Thank you, and in the voting day, I will vote as well as my colleagues from the SNS for this and these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39491	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic, and let Milija Miletic be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39492	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Dear Minister, I am pleased to see you often in this high house, the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with your associates, and no minister in the governments of the former regime has come with 13 associates like you here this morning among the MPs. This speaks, among other things, of your and the Government's dedicated work and commitment to the problems that the Republic of Serbia has put before you. I'm sure that's how you'll be in the future. I'll be brief, I thought I'd give up for the citizens, not for the MPs who persist in this assembly, to briefly say something about the Law on Legalization. And this Law on Legalisation has its foothold, both in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, who submitted in this National Assembly on 27 April 2014, during the government's election. Gentlemen, let me not forget, the exposés of the Prime Minister are the most transparent, the most comprehensive, the most concrete, the largest 52 densely typed sides and the best of all previous exposés of the Serbian Prime Minister, the previous since the time of the first Serbian government, Prote Mateja Nenadovic, in 1805 until today. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on page 18 of the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, said, I quote -- the aim is to shorten the time of the issue of construction permits, from the current 170 to 60 days, which would be below the average for European countries, to complete the quote. As you know, we've cut that deadline to 28 days, and here we are today setting up the law of illegally built buildings. That's how the government heads the president, that's how the SNS does it. This problem of illegally built objects has left us, in heritage, to solve, a party to the former regime. In 13 years, they have failed to legalise illegally built buildings, but have therefore managed to develop corruption to unsuspecting heights in the field. The former government has tried several times by adopting the Law on Legalisation to legalise lawlessly built objects. Of course, it didn't work. For what? Because of the bad and complicated laws that were not meant for public interest. Because of the bad and corrupt inspectors. Because of the bad resolution ministers. Because of their government's badness and their poor Prime Minister because they have not shown commitment in solving the legalisation problem as does Mrs. Minister and our Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic. Dear citizens, I address you, now is the time to legalize your illegally built objects because we have never had cheaper legalisation in the past and not only cheaper but less legal documents, to legalize and not only that, but also shorter times for which you will get a solution to legalization. As for the cost of legalization, I can tell you that she was never cheaper, that she was 230 times when houses were at stake, lower than it was before, and when it comes to commercial buildings and buildings then she's cheaper also for about 41 times those objects that are larger than a thousand squares. At the end of what is most important, which is that the state of Serbia will finally receive its own records of the facilities and citizens of the Republic of Serbia will receive ownership papers. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to give your vote for these four laws, especially I call on you from a weak opposition to vote for these laws, because at least in this way you will demonstrate that you support the modernisation of Serbia for which our Prime Minister and the entire government are so warmly advocated, and most MPs, as well as most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39493	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Irena Alexic, and let the MP Milija Miletic be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39494	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with his associates, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, has really said a lot today, and I will really briefly refer to only one draft law on which today was definitely the most words, but which is certainly one of the most important laws we are discussing, which is the bill on the law on the law of objects. What has most attracted my attention specifically to this law, which I think is best with it, is that it will be able to come into effect immediately, or with its practical application it will be able to move immediately. Why is that good? Because it's really a problem to solve in this area, to legalize things, is really crucial, and that's why it doesn't have to wait. In this way, I believe that in the best possible way, the charges are dropped that this law is difficult to apply, that everything is laid down on local self-government. On the contrary, I think it's very good. I think it is the business of local self-government, that local self-government and must take care of what is being built, practically in her backyard. Of course, it should, in one word, do its job, which is laid down by these laws, and it is also foreseen that unless the local self-government is properly doing its job that it will bear the natural and monetary sanctions that I consider to be quite correct. The ultimate goal of this bill is to finally and fully stand in the way of such construction, to stand in the way of illegal construction in Serbia. I honestly and deeply believe, indeed, that this bill, or its proper application in practice, will indeed achieve this very ambitious goal that has not yet taken the hand to achieve the last five laws that have had the same goal but have proved to be insufficiently up to this ambitious task. At the very end, one question is, is it really fair, is this bill just for those people who, all they built, everything they built, that they did according to the law? Of course this exists, that this is one way of looking at the whole thing, but one very important question is being asked – what is the alternative? What to do with so many people who have built their houses, whether to be prosecuted, whether to bring it all down, of course – no. Of course, this is the best possible attempt to get it back to one, to get it back into one legal stream, to make it all worse, because we still have to admit that in most cases it's about people who, by circumstances, or refugees or some other circumstances had to practically create a roof over their heads, so this is really one serious step to get it back into legal flows and certainly needs to be welcomed and supported, of course. As far as the procedure itself is concerned, it's as simplified as possible, there's been a lot of words about it today. For those who have applied for legalization, there is only a tax and perhaps this tax of up to 5,000 dinars for those houses that are up to 100 m2 may best be talked about really taking into account the social element, which I think is for every commendation, which is really to be commended. However, for those who have not applied for legalisation, practically, they now need only two papers, that is proof of property law over the ground and a report on the situation found. Perhaps what has most discouraged people so far to go into this, so far, complicated process will now be able to because they are really relieved when it comes to paperwork. It's really all down to a minimum, so this is really the right time for those people who haven't legalized their facilities to date to begin with. Reduced paperwork, money when it comes to, indeed, being as modest as possible, I have already said, which in the best possible way shows that the Resorient Ministry has indeed taken care of both the time and the citizens' money, and certainly all the bills of the law should be supported, which the SNS will certainly do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39495	Thank you, Mrs. Alexic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39496	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Transport and Construction, Mrs Mihajlovic, with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, Svrljig municipality, located next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. I'm going to talk about the bill on the law of object law, because I think this bill is one of the best so far. We had from 1997 to today, we had five draft laws that wanted to stop legal construction, stop illegal buildings, but failed. The result was this, based on the records, we now have 710,000 objects in the legalization process, and by estimates we have over 1.5 million objects that are not legalized. I come from a municipality where, according to some of the records I know, we have 700 objects that are in the legalization process and over 1,200 objects that need to be entered into the legalisation process that are not even registered. The bill of law is really good, the procedure is good, and I think as a MP in front of the United Peasant Party, elected from the SNS list, I will vote for this bill. There is a greater possibility for our farmers, our people from small municipalities such as my municipality, where the land has lost its value, where buildings have lost their value and where, under the previous law, it is worth it, to get to legalization of the facility was much greater than I am. That's why I support all of this, because, under the bill of law, you've given the opportunity to now up to 100 m2 to be 5,000 dinars, 100 to 200 is 15,000 dinars, and that's a really good price for all those who want to legalize their facility. On the other hand, and for those permanent objects can be legalized where they have that possibility, the same is a much better price for them. As far as the procedure is concerned, the procedure is very nice and very good. The adoption of this law for the next year, as we have said in the law, has to visit the entire territory of the municipality, all objects must be recorded and given to the competent authority which will continue to work on the legalisation process. Once again, I support this law because I think the law will allow budgets and local self-government to be filled first, because you are this asset that we are about to receive, it is close to 10 billion by some pre-accounts and budgets, and out of that 70% goes to local self-governments that have to invest that money in infrastructure, because it is necessary to do so, and on the other hand, these are some means that will have the opportunity to provide for better functioning of local self-government. Once again, I will support this law both as a man and as a representative of the United Peasant Party and as a Serb host. I would take advantage of the opportunity to all of our Serb hosts who today and yesterday celebrate St. George, to congratulate the glory, to wish everyone that they had a lot of health and happiness and that the new 2016 was born and noble both in the field and in the house.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39497	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39498	The problem of illegal construction does not stem from the previous government either, the one from the 1990s involving people who are in the current government, or from the period after 2000, it is an old problem. It's a problem that probably occurred right after the intubulation that was carried out there in the late 1960s when the state of Serbia legalized the then illegal construction with one act. So, I don't think there's any need for this law to be part of ideological and party bickering. This is a big problem. A million or a million and a half illegal objects is something that is a major problem in the legal sense, financial sense in terms of life, so it has to be solved. This law is necessary and along the fence that we only had three days to get to know the details of this law, basically it goes in the right direction, it's a law that wants to solve one big problem in a simple way. That intention is very good, and I hope that we have managed to find some faults that are in this law and through the 12 amendments we wanted to help make this law better and bring it in such a way as to be enforceable and that would be very good. I agree that it should be a special law because this is a special situation and it needs to be solved in this way. What our interventions are, above all, is in Article 5. Of course, we should delete these cottages in brackets, because I don't see that this is the essence of why this law is passed, and we've been looking for our amendments and eradicating the positions of two and three in Article 5, which allows for a special process of protection against the destruction of buildings built on land, which, for example, is a slide and a position of three that allows the survival of objects that are in protected zones if a public enterprise or institution that protects that area, to agree. These are two big holes for the potential bad intentions of someone who can do it if those two attitudes stay. If deleted, there's absolutely no way of doing any illegal, corrupt or other activity. The second important thing that my colleague Pavicevic and I have to do with our amendments, so this is the first and last thing I'm going to say about right now is a few words and it's fundamentally important, and that's what we're going to do with people who are legally building, who are the owners of legal objects, objects that are legally built and in which they live? I think they should get some satisfaction, and that's why we've proposed adding a new article 46a, which defines that in the next 15 years, people with legal facilities are released 50% of the real estate tax. That means that those solutions, the amount they're paying now over the next 15 years, would be half smaller. It would be slightly smaller funds for local self-government which are property tax users, but by legalising these millions and some facilities, local self-government certainly will get some new income, so there will be no big imbalance in their budgets. So the law is required. I repeat, I hope it was enough, in this short time period, we have seen enough flaws that do not affect the essence of the law, and we are confident that by accepting these amendments, the law will be better, and that we will be prepared, of course, to vote for it, because that is one solution that would also introduce a higher level of legal stability in this country and the possibility of transporting real estate that is now practical for these millions and some objects almost impossible, and thus create many other conditions that will bring benefits to the owners of these objects, but also to all others. Finally, another sentence is necessary to bring a better Law on Planning and Construction. We sent him into the procedure. We have not even received an informal response from the competent ministry, and it is necessary that the law and new Law on Planning and Construction be expelled from Serbia for centuries and centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39499	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39500	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear minister, honored guests, I will first say something about the Law on Commercial Broding, which I particularly liked because of the way it was written and because the terms were used in our beautiful Serbian language. Confidence, certificates, permits, means, no licenses, certificates, etc. These expressions went in favour of the use of the Serbian language, and we find it very important, because this Assembly should cultivate Serbian, as all congregations of some other states should cultivate their native languages. It's no problem to know someone else's language, but you should always know your own language and care for it, no matter how many languages someone speaks. That law was one of the most complete laws since 1977. I've made some amendments, I believe they'll be adopted. I think he's good and he shouldn't be wasting his time. To move on to the Catastrophe Act. Of course I'll vote for him. To us peasants, the catastre is the worst thing. When we get there, they almost expect us to kneel and lie down. We hope that practice and catastre will change and that we will not be expected to be so humble on those counters and sometimes humiliated. I believe the catastre will become better in time. As for the law of objects, I have a little problem here, because, at least with me, hundreds of peasants got criminal charges for building sheds. What happens when we pass this law? Will they still be criminally responsible for building the shed? They have already filed criminal charges with local self-government inspectors, who are often due to wells, and therefore the question and villages are how to legalise wells? Does legalizing an object automatically legalize a well? Is he especially to be drawn, because we don't all have water in the country, because wells require other regulations, etc., because of the use of water, so many in the country are interesting? Those who wrote to the peasants about the sheds of criminal charges, this is a photo from the seventh month from India in the centre of 2007, the beginning of the works. (The National MP Marijan Risticevic shows the photograph. ) Business housing, over 30,000 squares, without any building permit. In order to form the plot and build it, they had little trouble with the neighbor, so they buried him alive too. Since I was the President of the Assembly, I asked that question, so I was soon resolved to the Water Administration. Fortunately, I dug my neighbor up in time. His shoes are all he's got left. So, those who wrote these criminal charges to the peasants were obviously not the subject of criminal charges, or criminal charges that I filed were recently found in Somboro, either in Belgrade or Sremska Mitrovica, but were found in Sombor, most likely not to be handled, or someone in Sombor had reason to make an insight into the case. So, someone who built buildings of 30,000 square meters, business-room, along with all the benefits the Community Building Directorate has given, has filed criminal charges to farmers for building boilers, sheds, etc. So my question is justifiable – what will happen to them who have been persecuted, who have been persecuted by those who, miraculously, in this business-room facility, have formed a 250 square-square penthaus. Today, the former president of the municipality, who was there in 2007, Goran Jesic, who later served as vice president of the Vojvodina government, the province government and who is staying in a penthaus that is physically run on a 230-square-square-square company, which suggests to me that someone who wrote to the peasants a criminal report for building sheds, boilers, escorting facilities, etc., has allowed himself to be in the centre, and the prosecutor was a very active participant, that such an object is built in the center quite unpunished, to be persecuted, and that the other prizes. How long are we gonna go after millions and reward millionaires? That's my question about this law. Of course I'll vote for him for 1.5 million objects, and among them, of course, there are these. When we legalize 1.5 million objects, we'll be short of people, 500 thousand houses are empty, mostly in the country, the average age of 59. That's why my question -- will we, and that's what my colleague Jovanovic was saying, give some perks to the village residents, as some call the villagers, or do these townspeople use the "laxes" term, tentarianally, do we give them any discounts, since during the previous period when the party of the former regime did not exist? Since most self-sufficient farmers made and watered, phones, roads, streets, etc., I think they deserved to have certain privileges. I'm particularly interested in auxiliary facilities, what's going to happen to them, what's going to be the tariff in law enforcement, what's going to be in the future? As far as I'm concerned, I would suggest to your ministry that for these auxiliary facilities, especially for livestock development, because we fell to 0.3% of cattle per hectare, and the European average is one, not to give free, but even to pay them these taxes, so that they can deal with this business and get as much product on agricultural land as possible. So, I'm gonna support all these laws, but I think we're getting off the road that was going nowhere and we're going on a road that's going somewhere. That's why I'm going to vote to make this part of the reform, but I'm still asking the question of the village population, because our situation is more than urgent there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39501	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39502	Just to answer about the auxiliary facilities. There's a lot of questions on the subject. Auxiliary facilities can be legalized, we'll cut them down either as special or with the main facility, and the tax is 5,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39503	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becicu, the distinguished Mrs. Mihajlovic, the honored guests and honored guests of the ministry, did not really happen for a long time to discuss some draft laws in one day we have so many guests and guests from the ministry. Welcome to the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, who are here associates and associates of Ms. Mihajlovic. Mrs. Mihajlović, you said one thing this morning, I sat here, listened, then printed out a stenogram to see if I heard it right. You said: “I hope that today’s debate will be constructive, that, as always, we will help each other to make the laws even better. ” It is very important for me, gentlemen, to check what we heard and to quote what is another word or another word, Mrs. Mihajlovic, unlike some colleagues and in your government, whom you are proud of, and when they use other people's words and sentences, they do not put it under quotes. Since you said this, Mrs. Mihajlović, here we propose it is open now for discussion, other proposals to keep the second-degree procedure in the field, under a) the establishment and restoration of the catastra of immovableity and under b) the establishment, maintenance of the water catastra, in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Urbanism, and not as you suggested, Mrs. Mihajlović, to solve the Republic Geodetic Institute in proceedings in the second instance. We have two arguments for this proposal. Here I would like you to hear it, that there may be a debate on your team and tell us, perhaps not today, but Thursday, do you accept it. The argument, Mrs. Mihajlovic. In legal and administrative practice, second-degree bodies are always in the second-degree hierarchy of a higher body than those in which they were decided in the first-degree. That's argument a). Argument b), Mrs Mihajlovic, the Republic Geodetic Institute is now in the first degree, as far as we know about 250,000 unsolved items. Then, the competent ministry now has about 45,000 cases, pending cases, in the second degree. What will happen, gentlemen, when we now bury the Republic Geodetic Institute from impeaching the argument a). I think we have a good argument for our proposal. I'd be very happy to hear your attitude. The other thing, gentlemen, when we talk about the law of objects, there was almost no MP or MP here who did not call or call, here is Mrs. Alexic from the Serbian Progressive Party, on the great principle of justice and justice, and this principle of justice and justice, when it comes to the law of objects, we all made it clear to those people who were legally building on the basis of a building permit, but by the way we didn't add one comma after that call to justice and justice and suggested - what now with one injustice that we all feel in relation to these people? Mrs. Mihajlovic, Mr. Zivkovic has already said, we have one proposal. I believe that no one can be simple and easy to do in this matter in relation to this sense of great injustice. Here I am asking you now – what would be wrong with accepting our amendment the fourth order of the bill, which would read - Article 46a, which would write the following, respected gentlemen, owners of objects that built buildings in accordance with the building permit issued by the competent authority and which for these facilities have been granted a license, sealed, will be exempt from paying 50% of the property tax in the next 15 years from the date of entry into force of this law. I ask all the MPs and MPs, since I am once rebuked by one of the people's MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party that I don't use any more of this more gender-sensitive language, is this a fair proposal? Mrs. Mihajlovic, is this an approach that ensures that justice is served, since there is not one person here who has not noticed that we will do one injustice if we do not respond in some way to this situation? Here's a way, gentlemen, here's a concrete suggestion on how to get rid of it. Mrs. Mihajlović, if you do not accept it, please tell me more precisely why you do not accept it, and I believe that our argument is so good that you will accept, respected Mrs. Mihajlović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39505	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39506	If I could just have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39507	Unfortunately, he can't. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go, Mr. Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39508	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues, the proposal for a law on commercial shipping, is a shame that for such a large codification for which real need existed for years ago has left so little time to be done. It is a shame that Serbia, because of the need to pass the law as soon as possible, has missed the opportunity to pass a truly high-quality, impeccable and applicable law, first that should be in line with itself and then with all the regulations that this application covers. The state is an environment, if we think of the former members of Yugoslavia who faced the same challenge, realizing what kind of work they were dealing with, they didn't dare deal with this problem, but by adopting the necessary rules they dealt with it in a simpler way. In addition to all the efforts that have obviously been made to bring the current text into line, the bill remains full of ambiguity, uncertainty, opposites, wrong and insufficiently defined concepts, wrong translations, even misrepresented and insufficiently understood European rules that Serbia is obliged to enter into its legislation, which will very quickly be demonstrated through application in practice. This inconsistency and inconsistency is evident from the very name of the Law on Commercial Broding, and the bill does not mention boating and shipping once. We could essentially put amendments on most members of the law with less or more objections, but the question is what would we get then, because this bill should most likely be withdrawn from the procedure, do it again and again with the continued participation of the representatives of the economy. In the Law on Searching for the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Construction of an Interstate Bridge across the Drina River with accompanying travel facilities at the site of Ljubovija-Bratunac, we have noticed that there are no defined amounts of expenditure for the third financial year, even though this agreement has not established the responsibility of the contracting authorities in the process of drawing up the technical documentation, obtaining the consent of imports, exports, equipment and materials, that there are no deadlines for the beginning of the work and most importantly not done, and that is to define the obligations of the Republic of BiH on the basis of funding, because it is unusual and unacceptable that all costs are borne by only one contractual party, which is in this case the Republic of Serbia. In the draft law on the legalisation of objects, the Serbian People's Party sees the so-called so-called "Serb People's Party" as the main remark. a tax tax equivalent to that of all city and municipal administrations. In such a way, we feel that the possibility of funding the budgets of city and local administrations is denied, so we ask the question – is the billing fee paid on the total net surface of the facility or only on the difference between illegal squares and how do we define payment according to the proposed pricer? The draft law does not specify any member and does not distinguish residential objects with legal squares from objects that are illegal entirely. How do we expect the municipality to build infrastructure if there is no funds for that fee? Why does the state get a 30% share of the funds if it doesn't invest anything in municipal equipment? What about common spaces in objects that you don't know who the investor is, if the owners of the apartments pay the billing fee? Who pays the fees for legalizing those spaces? That's the part where the halls, the stairs and the basement rooms come in. If the investor is the legal person who went into bankruptcy, the person who died, then who does the contract have to be concluded with? I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the number of municipality employees does not follow the number of building and legal requirements or the list of illegal objects. Local self-governments with an increased volume should be allowed to receive new workers so that these deadlines are respected. We believe that the bill in this form puts the municipality and investors in an unfavourable position. In Novi Sad, in Kopalnik, Zlatibor land is very valuable and is invested in infrastructure. How do we now put municipalities and cities that invest more in the infrastructure where all the necessary networks and those that don't do it are done? The price of the tax in any case is the same in all these situations, and we believe that we are deeply influencing local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39509	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. Dear People's MPs, as one of the chairmans, it is a pleasure when in this constructive debate we do not have to react and to contribute to today's constructive democratic debate, I would like to withdraw the warnings I gave to the MP Mr Zivkovic and the MP Mr Djurisic yesterday. I would ask him to record the service if I had withdrawn two warnings to Mr. Zivkovic and a warning to Mr. Zivkovic. We're going back to work. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, as the last reported debater. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39510	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I also thank you because the Administrative Board, which I chaired by this decision and the withdrawal of penalties, will have less work to do, but I hope that the National Assembly will no longer be the site of ugly words and such topics, but indeed the place of constructive discussion and the confrontation of different policies, different facts and the arrival of a solution, and not the site of some ugly words that we have not many times heard here. Mrs. Mihajlović, distinguished guests from the Ministry of Transport, the Republic Geodetic Institute, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, were preparing for this session and I remembered a 2010 event, not only in progress, but also one of the successful Laws on Legalisation, but also one campaign that was run to actually translate illegal objects into legal ones. An older fellow citizen of mine who has done his working life honestly and honestly, built a house in the vicinity of Vrnjaka Banja, on the edge of Vrnjaka Banja, did everything that the law prescribed to legalise his house. He handed over the papers to the local self-government unit, they made a reckoning, and after that, he had to pay 7,000 euros for legalising the house. He said, "I don't." Of course, like most citizens of the Republic of Serbia. With that answer, he went to the bank. Where they've got it. The bank told him no problem, you can get 7,000 euros in credit, but for those 7,000 euros, you'll have to mortgage the house that's legalized. And just for one act, just for the legalization of a house that he was honestly building and he had to give the whole house so he could legalize. All these previous successful laws on legalisation have not accepted one dimension, one fact, which is how people in Serbia live, how much money they have and whether they have so much money to enforce legalisation. In front of this Government of the Republic of Serbia, there were two options, not to deal with this topic, to put our heads in the sand, to be satisfied because 1,850 objects were legalized last year. That rhythm, and in such a way as to legalize these almost a million and 500 thousand illegal objects, would take us about 810 years, 810 years in this way as it has been done so far. And then we would be accused of Mrs. Mihajlović, of politicizing, and then the same people would accuse us and say, well, if you were doing this because you allow some of your own or potential to build and work and you don't have the Law on Legalization or you don't apply some laws there, and then you would accuse us of politicizing everything. The same ones who are now accusing us of politicizing because we want to deal with it. Because we want to put an end to a decades-old case and a million and 500 thousand illegal objects. Because we want people in Serbia to get more value for their properties. Because we want to raise the construction industry. Because we want to revive the real estate market. Because we want people in Serbia to do what they built and built, in which they invested in having it right and just. I listened carefully to today’s presentations of all the people’s MPs and MPs, and I am pleased with the one tone that reigned in the National Assembly. It's not that common. Unfortunately. I am sorry that the presence in the Assembly Hall does not reflect the public interest, the interest of people in Serbia in this topic and I accept both my responsibility and the responsibility of my parliamentary group, although it is the most numerous and the most percentage of SNS MPs in the hall, but I also accept my responsibility. A few things that really burned my ears, one of those, and I'm going to try to deny in the next few minutes everything that's been said today, and presented as the key reasons why the Law of Law is allegedly not good. One reason is that we reportedly announced the adoption of this law for a year. Imagine a terrible sin because we told people in Serbia that we wanted to and that we were dealing with this topic. Well, this is the topic of which many of the governments of the Republic of Serbia have broken their teeth. Well, do you think something could have been done over the knee? Do you think something could've been done just as obvious? Well, you'd experience the fate of these previous six laws. Well, of course we've been doing it for a long time. Of course, if we had to do the draft of the law, that according to the draft, a large public debate had been conducted that involved several thousand participants in all major cities in the Republic of Serbia, and now we have been accused by Mrs Mihajlovic, why did we include the public? Why didn't we do something secret? The same ones who tell us whether this law has passed a public debate. Now that there's been a public debate, they're texting us now, so, you know, you had to do it secretly, so this might not be politicizing. You have to make a deal once, will it be done according to the PS, as a rule, to go through a public debate, to involve people who are interested in this topic and in this area or do you want to do something undercover? We don't want to do anything not transparent, we don't want to do anything far from the eyes of the public. That's why this process lasted a year. Because we wanted a law that would be applicable, which would put an end to the procedure and so long and constantly announced the end of the legalisation process. Another thing and one sentence that I can only define as running away from responsibility. When they said, you know, in those years that you announced that you would do the Law on Legalization was mass building in Serbia, it's mass building. Then these same people come out for a pay phone in the morning and say – our construction industry is in a difficult state, nothing is done, and then running away from their responsibility because they have allowed 1,500,000 buildings to be built, they say – here is mass construction in the last year. Can the construction industry be at the same time in crisis and mass-building? According to me, by logic, he can't, unless he wants someone to escape their personal responsibility for allowing this number of illegal objects to appear in the Republic of Serbia. Also, one of the things that, in my logic, really has nothing to do with it, which is, some colleagues said this was corrupt. How? Where do you see a crumb of corruption opportunities? A crumb of corruption opportunities, is the house, the family house, up to 100 square meters legalized for 5,000 dinars? What will you be able to legalize a house between 100 and 200 square meters for 15,000 dinars? The fact that those who have had more opportunities will build larger facilities legalize for 30,000 or 40,000 dinars, where do you see this possibility of corruption? I see it on the other side, not in this law, but in what's been going on in Serbia for the past 20, 25 years, maybe more, and that's corruption in building objects. That the building inspector who's supposed to stop the construction then when she's the cheapest, then when the foundation rates are dug up, turn his head on the other side. Then when the first plate is poured out, it's on vacation, and when the roof horns are set, it's sick, and then it's over. That's when the facility was built, that's when some people invested money, and that's when it's over. It's over with his work, except he can only record another illegally built facility. Now that is, respected colleagues and colleagues, the place of corruption, and it is not the place of corruption of the government of Alexander Vukic and the SNS to revive the construction industry, to put an end to the legalisation process, to revive the real estate trade, to get people in Serbia more value of their buildings, what they built and built. They say, also as one of the important grudges, the law is not fair, because, for God's sake, it will be worth more than a house in Surdulica. Well, she's worth more now. Well, the block that's installed on Dedinj is worth more than the block that's been installed in Surdulica at the moment. And what's quite annoying, it's as a grudge to this law given by the MPs who live right on Santa. That was not said by any MP from Surdulica, Vrnjačka Banja, Subotica, Valjev, but by those who live on Dedinj, just the ones who own the property on Dedinj. They say, "Well, you know, it's going to get more value. They say this law is not fair, because some people who have worked legally and regularly will be punished. Mathematics is quite an exact thing, so I divided a little more than seven million people in Serbia by four, divided by four how numerous the average family in Serbia is, and then I reached the number of millions and 700 thousand, or a million and 800 thousand families. When you have millions and 800,000 families on one side, and on the other hand a million and 500 thousand illegal objects, almost every family has an illegal facility in Serbia. So, who's that unfair to? According to whom, if almost everyone in Serbia is somehow bound, does he have part of a house or a house or something that he was doing at some point and has no building permit for it? There's no injustice in that. Injustice is at the moment when these people couldn't trade their properties, when they couldn't possibly take credit, when they couldn't overwrite that property. Injustice was also because the state could not have income on these properties, in terms of taxes, which is one of the basic functions of each country. Well, that's what injustice was about. This injustice is what we want to correct by this law. I think in the future the key lies in... I have no doubt that this law will not apply, I know it will be applied, because, Mrs. Mihajlović, you have also shown by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction, as it is possible that with 200 and a few days, as long as it was necessary to obtain a building permit, you will bring that deadline down to 28 days, because you have succeeded together with your co-workers in the Ministry and together with the rest of the Government, you will contribute to the "Doing Business List" progressing 32 places. You know, that's not what Zoran Babic said, or Katarina Rakic, or Aleksandar Martinovic, that's what people who are very skilled and thoughtful in those estimates said, but we want to move on. I'm joining that promise, and I'm sure you, too, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that in the future Serbia's place is in the first 30-40 on the "Doing Business List". And, as you managed to get the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction to get a construction permit in Serbia in 28 days, so I am sure that this legalisation process, which has been handed over for a year, which has to be fast, which will involve all local self-government, will help bring the legalisation process to an end, that people in Serbia can get extra value on their facilities, that the legalisation process is done in the interests of citizens, not in the interests of local self-government or state. Not everyone's primary interests, because somehow so far it seems to me that this handle of all the laws so far, this stumbling block of all the laws so far has been because their application is complete, or amounts for legalisation have been given to the units of local self-government that they say how much and how it is. Then local self-government units, of course, always wanted more, put prices that were unrealistic. Then again we come to the beginning of my present presentation, to my neighbor from Vrnjačka Banja who had to pay 7,000 euros in current laws or to take a mortgage, or a mortgage on that same property, and we were spinning around in this vicious circle and we had laws that were actually "the perpetum of the mobile". The Serbian Progressive Party will, of course, vote on the day of the vote, when we are both debated and in particular, and we have submitted some amendments, I am grateful for the communication we have had to make these amendments and hand over, the SNS will vote in full capacity for this Law on Law, but also for all other laws under this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39511	I thank you, Mr. Granny. Since the parliamentary group is no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and a single search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure? The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39512	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we didn't understand each other in many of the things we talked about today. This is a chance to once again highlight a few of the things that we from the DS spoke today during this debate. First of all, of course, you have to solve the problem of illegal construction. Also, we agree with this law in the part in which it gives the most favourable position to those citizens who have houses and apartments from 60 to 100 square meters in which they live with their families and agree that under the most favourable conditions they should get the law of their illegally raised facilities. We know that there are 85% of them, but we're talking about these other 15 or 20% that make up about 300,000 illegally raised objects. I think we're talking about the number of people who don't belong in this category. As far as they're concerned, this law is unfair. This law will be unfair for the following reasons. This law equates that one owner of an illegally erected facility that has one illegal object with one that has five or six illegally erected objects. I'm sorry, the one with the one house he lives in needs under the most favourable conditions to get the smallest cab to pay for the law. But if someone has five or six such objects, there's no reason to pay such low fees for the law. The other thing we talked about earlier this afternoon is that it's not fair for someone to pay for legislation in cities where legalizing this property is going to be worth a lot more than it's gonna be... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: She is worth it now.) It's not worth it now because it can't be sold, colleague Babic. What's important to understand is this. When someone in Belgrade has an illegally erected facility and now for 5,000 they can get the legislation, it will get in their pocket when they sell that illegally raised facility, now the law, much more money than someone in Srlig, Triestenik or anywhere else will get it for the same tax. So there had to be some difference between the benefits that citizens get by law. But the main thing that we talked about this morning is that there was a big difference and an inequality between those investors who built and built with permits, who paid a fee to use construction land, which is somewhere in Belgrade for example. The facility of 500 or 1000 squares is about 100,000 euros, and today, with the law of those who built an illegal 1000-square facility, four and a half thousand or 5,000 euros will receive the law of the facility. It is a great injustice and it does not create trust in the rule of law. The other thing we talked about, it's that there are no conditions for this law to be applied. There are no conditions to be applied because all the burden is on local self-government and because local self-government has no capacity. We were talking about having cities where there are, say, 20,000 legalisation requirements, that it's expected to be in the process of legalizing another ten thousand, I've given, I think, an example of Kragujevac, and there are three building inspectors. It is impossible for them to finish the job, regardless of all the commissions that can be formed in parallel with them. The third thing we talked about, we're underlining again, this law has a lot of corrupt elements, a lot of corrupt elements. In a large number of provisions it is adapted to the interests and needs of individuals or certain business groups which, therefore, by this law, will gain enormous wealth by lawlessly raised objects and will significantly increase their assets. We talked about some specific provisions, I'm not going to repeat them now, but the fact is, for example, that only the difference between the fee to be paid for an unlawfully raised building of 1,500 square meters, we are talking, of course, about housing and buildings that are built for the market, these are not those people who have small residential facilities in which they live. Those who illegally built the facility up to 1,500 square meters will pay a fee of about a million dinars, or about 8,000 euros in rough. If one square is exceeded and it is, say, 1.501 square meters, the tax will be 25,000 euros. I'm telling you now about this, I'm not sorry that they're going to pay 25,000 euros, but that difference between 1,500 squares and 1.501 is so small that it's going to provide huge opportunities for corrupt actions when it's estimated how large the square of a specific object is. That's what this is about. So there's a lot of room for discretionary decision-making and discretionary action of the branches that will participate in this legal process, and we're afraid that this will lead to very bad solutions. We believe, once again, that a good part of this law, the one that provides for the lawlessly raised objects for the largest number of citizens who, by their fault or without their own fault, have built buildings for their dwellings, but in this second segment that gives enormous rights and enormous wealth to investors, those who have built for the market, this law is indeed legal and morally unacceptable. That's why we can't vote for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39513	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39514	In the end, I would like to thank all MPs and MPs first for a very constructive debate, but also to tell the citizens of Serbia that the law on the legislation we discussed today in principle, and on Thursday we will discuss in particular and I sincerely hope that parliament will adopt this bill, so by this law we are solving the issue of a million and a half illegally built objects. I am very sorry, I suppose, and most Serbian citizens, that we have come into a situation that we should have such a problem with a million and a half illegally built objects and that we have come into a situation that some previous governments, whose MPs sitting here today in parliament and representing the opposition, have put us in a position that a million and a half illegally built objects exist in Serbia, that citizens in most cases could not have reached their building permits because it was responsible for someone not to give or issue building permits and there was certainly a lot of corruption in that system where the permits were waiting for a few years, in which there were no plans, where pastures were transferred to construction land, etc. But we are here today with a bill of law made by this government that is primarily run by the SNS, wanting and thinking that we can solve the problem and help the citizens of Serbia, therefore, everyone, to become owners of their buildings, their apartments, family houses, so that they can also enter the real estate market on that basis, but to be registered, that maybe tomorrow with their apartments they are schooling their children, and that, on the other hand, as a state, we are introducing order and that there is finally not one single square meter ever again that was built without a building permit. We've succeeded with building permits, we've managed to give construction permits in less than a month, and we will succeed in having electronic building permits since January 1st, all countries in the environment already have them. I'm sorry the previous governments didn't do it in the previous period, but we did it and we will. This will also enable us to legalize everything that can, under the law, actually mutilate themselves and that citizens have the ultimate satisfaction of their own interests. I sincerely hope that the debate in particular will be equally constructive and, if necessary, that this law will be further improved for the benefit of Serbia's citizens above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-17-0.u39515	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Since we are no longer registered, I am concluding a joint principled and uniform search of the motions of the law in point. On the 1st to 7th agenda. Once again, I thank all the MPs for allowing us to act as chairman and to have a constructive discussion today. Once again, I thank Mrs Mihajlovic and her cabinet members for participating in today's debate. Thank you. Continuation is tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary voting units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the next National MP, Natasa Vukkovic. We continue to work and move on to a principled search on the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending Law and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE Health PROTECTION LAW under Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session: Dr Zoran Lončar, Minister of Health, Prof. Dr. Berislav Vekić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Dr. Nebojsa Jokić and Svetlana Zekovic, senior advisers at the Ministry of Health. You've received a bill from the government. You have received a report from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the representative of the Proposer Dr Zlatibor Loncar, Minister of Health, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Lonchar.
