ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-12-0.u42987	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 141 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that the sessions were prevented from attending Natasa Vukkovic and Mladen Grujic. We continue our work and move on to the vote on agenda points. I would like to put the motion for a decision to give consent to the decision on the amendments to the 2015 financial plan of the Republic PIO Fund in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –149 against – one abstention – there are no, three of the 153 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion for a decision, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At point I the amendment was tabled by 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Part II of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the financial plan of the Republic PIO Fund for 2015 as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – two abstentions – there are no votes, six of the total of 167 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2015 in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – two abstentions – there is no vote, not one of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion for a decision, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At point I the amendment was tabled by 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 171 out of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Part II of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—one, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the motion for a decision to agree on a decision to amend the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2015 as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – two abstentions – there are no, two out of the total 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the decision on amendments to the 2015 financial plan of the National Employment Service, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171 versus – two abstentions – there are no, no two out of the 175 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion for a decision in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 174 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At point I the amendment was tabled by 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 174 out of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Part II of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 171 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on the draft decision to give consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2015 as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171 versus – two abstentions – there are no, two out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for military insurance for 2015, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171 against – three abstentions – there are no votes, two of the 176 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion for a decision, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – no, 172 of the total of 176 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. At point I, 11 MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 176 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Part II of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 174 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for military insurance for 2015 as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174 against – three abstentions – there are none, none who have not voted from the total of 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the draft Decision of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2016, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, not one of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of Head I and Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 176 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 172 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 169 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 172 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 171 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 171 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 173 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 172 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Micunovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 169 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic and MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 167 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 169 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 170 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 170 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 5th amendment in the same text, submitted by international MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by 11 MPs from the BORIS TADIĆ parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – six, against – none, with abstentions, did not vote 172 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 6th amendment in the same text, submitted by international MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – seven, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 173 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 172 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment in the same text, submitted by international MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 172 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – six, against – none, with abstentions, did not vote 173 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 178 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Marinkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name of Chapter II and Article 8 of the amendment in the same text, submitted by the international MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 174 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 8th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – six, against – none, with abstentions, did not vote 172 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Nenad Canak submitted to the 8th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – six, against – none, with abstentions, did not vote 174 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kostreš. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 170 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 171 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Dejan Chapo has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 172 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment with correction was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – five, against – one, abstention – there is no, 172 of the 177 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – three, against – one, abstention – there is no, 174 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 172 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic and the magistrate, Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 169 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the votes and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to the 8th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Stojsic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Stefana Miladianovic, Vera Paunovic and Marija Obradovic. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the examination of the draft laws in individualities. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 23 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nada Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 171 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Jovan Markovic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 168 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Topic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 169 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Micunovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 169 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Marinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 168 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nebojsa Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 177 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To the name of Chapter III. and the 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 178 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Miroslav Marinkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 171 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Homen and Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Ninoslav Stojadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and five MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 175 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Aleksandar Senic, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 11th amendment, MPs Jovan Markovic and Janko Veselinovic submitted the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 172 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with MPs Branko Karavidic, Aleksandar Senic, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 172 of the total of 178 MPs present. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 172 of the total of 178 MPs present. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 170 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 172 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 13, the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and 11 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS - ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14, the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and 11 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS - ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 14 by the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 178 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 176 of the 180 MPs present for - four against - none, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 173 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Jovan Markovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 176 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Homen and Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 176 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroslav Marinkovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Ivan Karic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 178 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Ninoslav Stojadinovic. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 27 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Blagoja Bradic, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 176 out of the 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 183 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Dusan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 179 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The same text was submitted to the 16th amendment by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 183 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS - ZZS - ZS submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 180 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 178 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 182 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Karic and the magistrate Dr Blagoja Bradić and joint MPs Miroslav Marinković and Aleksandar Senić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment in the same text was submitted by the People's MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and the MPs Slobodan Homen and Branka Karavidić together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and 11 MPs from the same group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and 11 MPs from the same group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 178 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th Amendment were submitted by MP Balša Bozovic, MP Milan Petrovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicev and 11 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 179 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Jovan Markovic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—ten, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and 11 MPs from the same group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and 11 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 179 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Goran Bogdanović and Mr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Marinkovic, Branka Karavidic and academicist Ninoslav Stojadinovic together submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 181 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ivan Karic, Dusan Petrovic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 179 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 176 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic and five MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 179 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 176 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 182 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and 11 MPs from the same group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 180 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from SDA Sandzak-PDD have tabled an amendment suggesting that a new member of 26a be added after article 26. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 182 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and 11 MPs from the same group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – no, 179 of the 186 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 28th amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 182 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 28th Amendment. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 182 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 30 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 180 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 179 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 179 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 31st amendment. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 178 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Jovan Markovic. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 177 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 181 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 182 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 33 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 179 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 34th amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and 11 MPs from Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 179 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 181 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZS and the ZS were submitted to the 35th amendment. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 179 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov was submitted to the 35th Amendment. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 185 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS and ZS were submitted to the 36th amendment. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 183 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 185 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS and ZS were submitted to the 37th amendment. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, abstentioned—has voted 181 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 184 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS and ZS were submitted to the 38th amendment. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 181 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 184 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZS and the ZS were submitted to the 39th amendment. Please make a statement. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 180 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that by adopting several amendments to the text of the bill, the situation in Article 165 has arisen. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. that the conditions for the adoption of these amendments, have created the need for the committee responsible to submit a new amendment, which brings the amendments adopted, together with the text of the draft law. I therefore set a 10-minute break and ask that the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives meet immediately and submit the necessary amendments, i.e. the report. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Before we continue, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert the cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 141 MPs present in the hall. You have been given an amendment to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, no one, with abstentions, voted 17, out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, not 13 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has found that there are particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the law within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2016, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – 10 abstentions – there are no, there are no three votes, of the 174 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2016 by majority of the votes of all MPs. Congratulations. Now we move on to decision-making on the motions for decisions. I am putting to the vote on the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Invalid Security for 2016. A year. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – seven abstentions – there are no votes, not seven votes, of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2016. I am putting to the vote on the proposal for a DECISION on CONSOLIDATION TO THE FINANCIAL PLAN OF THE REPUBLIC FUND FOR SULVED SURVEILLANCE FOR 2016. A year. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – eight abstentions – there are no votes, no votes, eight of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2016. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service 2016. A year. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, v – eight abstentions – there are no votes, no six votes, of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2016. I am putting to the vote on the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Security Fund for the 2016 Military Security Fund. A year. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 versus – five abstentions – there is no, no vote 10, of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for military insurance for 2016. I'm putting on a vote on the amendment and supplemental bill on the budget system, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – seven abstentions – there are no votes, no votes, eight of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vera Paunović, Marija Obradović, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Stefana Miladanovic, Elvira Kovac, Dubravka Filipovski, Gordana Comić, Olena Papuga, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Sabina Dazdarevic, Ivana Dinić and Aida Ćorović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 82, against – no one, with abstention – voted 106, out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 179 out of the 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 179 out of the 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 179 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ninoslav Stojadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 180 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 178 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 180 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 183 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 4th amendment, with a correction, were submitted jointly by the MPs Marija Obradović, Dubravka Filipovski, Gordana Komić, Vera Paunović, Stefana Miladinović, Elvira Kovac, Aleksandra Tomić, Susana Spasojevic, Aida Ćorović, Anamarija Vicek, Sabina Dazdarevic, Ljiljana Malušić and Ljiljana Nestorović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, no one, with abstentions, voted nine out of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment to the Women's Parliamentary Network. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Tomic, Vera Paunović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Stefana Miladanovic, Elvira Kovac, Marija Obradović, Dubravka Filipovski, Olena Papuga, Susana Spasojevic, Aida Ćorović, Anamarija Vicek, Sabina Dazdarevic, Ljiljana Malušić and Ljiljana Nestorović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 57, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 133 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was tabled by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 180 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was tabled by 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 181 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was filed by 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 180 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was filed by 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 181 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was filed by 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 182 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 16th amendment, together with the correction, the National MPs Stefana Miladanovic, Elvira Kovac, Marija Obradović, Dubravka Filipovski, Gordana Komić, Vera Paunović, Olena Papuga, Aleksandra Tomić, Susana Spasojevic, Aida Ćorović, Anamarija Vicek, Sabina Dazdarevic, Ljiljana Malušić and Ljiljana Nestorović were submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was tabled by 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 179 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was filed by 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 179 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th Amendment was tabled by 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – no, 179 of the total of 185 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People's MPs, by adopting the amendment to Article 16. The draft law has arisen in the situation referred to in Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. as a result of the adoption of the amendment, created the need for the committee responsible to submit a new amendment agreeing the amendment adopted with the text of the draft law. That's why I'm setting a break of 10 minutes, so the committees can meet and submit a new amendment.
