ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 104 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Branko Ružić, Aleksandar Čotric and Olgica Batic. We continue our work and move on to the search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completions of the Law on Industrial Society The Word has Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19813	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Sertic and the guests of the Ministry, I believe, the Honored President, is a injured Rules of Procedure 107, in paragraphs 1, 5 and 9 and Article 283. The Rules of Procedure, as MP Zoran Zivkovic was again prevented from entering the assembly hall to take part in the debate on amendments to these draft laws. In this case, gentlemen, we have a certain change of circumstances, and my proposal is to allow Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic to enter the O.R. and take part in the debate. This is why I propose it and I think that the adoption of this proposal would be followed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, MP Zoran Zivkovic filed a constitutional appeal requesting the postponement of the sanctions imposed before the Constitutional Court. I think it is very important to do as I have suggested, to protect the dignity of the legislative and representative body, which is the central political institution in our representative system. Dear gentlemen, I think this is about the principle of legitimacy, because in our court, freedom of speech cannot be limited just because a speech or a word seems unpleasant or creates unpleasantness, for example. Prime Minister. So that the Assembly would not be in a situation where the Constitutional Court is being warned because of a certain type of action, I think it would be best if Mr. Zivkovic could participate until the Constitutional Court's proceedings are closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19814	Thank you. I'm not going to comment on article 107. It's a previous store, that's what I understand. Article 284, you yourself said that you had filed a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court with a proposal for a temporary measure. Of course we will respect every decision of the Constitutional Court. Since it has not been decided on your proposal for a temporary measure to allow the MP to attend the sittings, neither can we prejudge that decision by our actions, so we will wait. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. I thank you. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Minister of Business Željko Srtić, Finance Minister Dr Dusan Vujovic, Minister of Mining and Energy Aleksandar Antić, Assistant Minister of Economy Milun Trivunac, Minister of Industry Marko Obradović and Ivana Janacković and Andrijana Stojkovic of the Ministry of Economy. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blažje Bradić, Ivan Karić, Zoran Živković, Vladimir Pavićić, Borislav Stefanović, Ivan Jovanovic, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozović, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Sutanovac, as well as the Committee for Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaža Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19815	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I spend my time over, it'll be time for an authorised representative. In this Article 1 we have submitted two amendments. There's one in the title above the article, and the other in terms of the member and its contents, and I'm going to talk a lot more detail when I talk about the content of the member himself. However, all the speed, incompetence and incompetence of the promoter is also reflected in the title of this member, which is said to be about the law on amendments and the addition of the Business Society Act. Although we have two members to which this law is complemented and when they are two members, it is usually a plurality in the Serbian language and it would be normal for the law to be the title of these amendments and additions to be – a bill on amendments and additions, if there are two members that amend this law and which is complemented by this law. So I ask you to appreciate this. I don't know if you've even read these amendments, because I see that there's practically the same argument in everyone, and it seems to me that you haven't devoted yourself too much for the weekend to the analysis of these amendments, and they've gone towards correcting the bad things in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19816	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19817	Thank you, Madam President. So, very briefly, as we have received an explanation from the government, it is believed that, as far as the change is concerned, only one was made. Excuse me, supplemental. As for the need to use plural, it is clear how the legislator interprets the changes proposed by this law. We have one change, as such, one clean addition, of course, change is change and therefore change is used in plural, and only the question is not essential, so it won't affect the quality of the law or its consequences, if we accept that what we're proposing is as proposed by the legislator. I don't think there's any need to insist on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19818	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Ivan Jovanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Sertic, respected guests from the ministry and respected National Assembly presidents, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this proposal for a law on economic societies that you today defend, you, amendmentist, Mr Sertic. Since Article 1 of this proposal of the law is in some way and substantiative, and we have recommended that the contents of this Article be deleted 1, I, the Honored President, use now and time according to the amendment that I have, regardless of the two minutes that I have for each amendment. So if I calculated well, now I have seven minutes. In the explanation of Mr Sertic, we were able to read that our amendment, which reads, is deleted, is not accepted because there are insufficient reasons for accepting it. Dear Mr Sertic, we have tried to explain why this member and all members of this bill should be deleted, in principle debate, but also in the amendment that we have submitted in writing. And since it is clear to me here now from your answer that the reasons are not good enough, I will try, Mr. Sertic, now this time to use to convince you to give up this bill's defense, Mr. Sertic. What's the situation? So we have decided to submit amendments – it is deleted, to all the members of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Business Society Act. Three things are very important to us here, gentlemen. One thing is - this bill, Mr Sertic, reveals one irresponsibility of the executive authority, primarily the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What does irresponsibility mean, Mr. Sertice? Here, to list only two things, as a contribution to the explanation of our amendment to delete Article 1, Mr Sertic. First, this bill reveals to us that the government is not fulfilling its duties to others, based on citizens' confidence. Because this bill serves to make up for something the government has failed to do, gentlemen. So the government doesn't fulfil its duties, and that's irresponsible. The second thing, the Government, gentlemen of honor, is now, above all, failing to submit accounts for the acts that have been done and which have not been done. It is our judgment, therefore, that before we could discuss here the bill on these amendments, the government should come, first and foremost the Prime Minister, and say - I was irresponsible, and then, Mr Sertic, to discuss together here how to replace the damage that has been done. So, this bill of law is in my court, according to my reading and interpretation, and Article 1 is the most important thing for me here, because it is the basic, imagery and opportunity of an irresponsible government. The government, Mr. Sertic, and I hope you understand this argument now, you are a member of this government, I know that you know what this is about, did not do something that she had to do, and now the government is playing with the law and the rule of law. Dear gentlemen and Mr Sertic, my basic argument for this amendment concerns one important principle in politics, amendment to Article 1 of this Bill, which is the principle of ethics of responsibility, Mr Sertic. I hope now that our amendment is even clearer, that the explanation is now a little more complete. Ethics of responsibility means – politics is measured by results. If there is no result, if the government has missed something to do, to come here and say, and not to miss, mistakes are masked by amendments to one law. Another thing, Mr Sertic, this is just as important an argument as it was before, beware of the honourable Members of the People's Parliament, what the Government has proposed to us here. The government, to put it that way, has proposed "ex individualis" here, so to speak, gentlemen. What does that mean? Let me explain. In Article 3. The Constitution, we respected gentlemen and respected presidents of the National Assembly, have a very clear description of what the principle of rule of law means. One of the elements of the rule of law principle says the laws must be general, that the generality of the law is an important element of every law and rule of law, that I am now not opening a full interpretation of what the rule of law means, as stated in Article 3 of our Constitution, Mr Sertic. Article 98. The constitution also concerns things. As far as Parliament's jurisdiction is concerned, what the Assembly is doing here. Article 99. The Constitution says that our Assembly adopts laws and other general acts. The law is a general act, and I have tried to point out to you here, Mr Sertic, in the principle debate, and now on the subject of article 1 of this bill, that in the light of this bill, you have named one economic operator Telecom Serbia, Telecom Serbia, Telecom Serbia, and the fourth time in the fourth paragraph of "Telecom Serbia". That's what you've told us, Mr. Sertic, that this law, this bill, can't be a general act. This is therefore "ex individualis", and the National Assembly of Honored People's MPs, I am now also focusing on Mr Babic, who is the head of the largest parliamentary group here and Mrs Vukomanovic and the other gentlemen, the heads of the parliamentary groups, our National Assembly should not adopt "lex individualis" honored gentlemen. Mr. Sertić, please answer me whether our argument is more clear to you now, with another addition, dear Mr. Sertic. We've had similar situations here before, our experience with Mr. Selakovic is similar, but look what's happening to him, Mr. Sertic. Today, he will have to come to this National Assembly for the third time in five months to defend one and the same. You're not going to follow bad practice, are you? Stop the bad practice, adopt our amendment and make this assembly work properly. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19820	Thank you. First authorised, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, in front of the group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19821	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, I would use the time of the parliamentary group. We have had opportunities by the promoters to hear about irresponsibility, ethics, that the name under which this law is governed shows fundamental ignorance of the legislative framework in this area at all, when we talk about business societies by the promoters. But it should also be said to insist that this bill is directly affecting the value of capital of the part of the actions relating to "Telecom", but what is the main objective of all of this is to preserve state capital through a certain form of participation of actions and that is what simply the promoter, and also those on whose list he participated in the previous elections, have failed to preserve so far. This is why today we have big debts, big problems, not only with Telecom but also with other state-owned business entities. What the Serbian government today in co-operation with the congregation's majority should fix is to preserve state capital. Only with such a concept of preserving state capital that we know how much we have in relation to what the state of Serbia is, how much it is worth and what we can get out of the market with. We simply show responsible policy. After all, if such an amendment really were to be adopted, 40 billion dinars would cost that ignorance when we're even talking about preserving Telecom's actions. This government cannot afford the kind of behaviour that would lead to it not being in a position to choose and lose every day, as some previous government that was in debt at unfavourable interest rates, which has been in debt and led to the fact that the Republic of Serbia's budget cannot bear such debts. Finally, by not adopting, or adopting this amendment to the previous speaker, it would come to the fact that the agreement we signed with the IMF could not be implemented. Therefore, all the factors are saying that such an amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19822	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19823	The Serbian Progressive Party is against the amendment submitted by the previous speaker and there are many reasons why we are against it. I also talked about some reasons in the principle debate, that by accepting this and this amendment, direct negative effects and direct damage to the budget, according to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for us as a state, as a society, would be 40 billion dinars, 20 billion by reducing capital and 20 billion by reducing unallocated profits. I would not want to confuse the citizens of Serbia with various "lex individuals", and there have been various "lex specialities" in the past, so all this can confuse, and it can scare the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but I am talking about responsibility, responsibility that is necessary both in parliament and in the government and in every public enterprise, in every segment of our society. The following data that are accurate, which are accurate, show "Telecoma Serbia" business, show what responsibility means. The net profit of "Telecoma Serbia", I see, has already been shot down, is uncomfortable hearing about the good results of our country, at the end of 2012, "Telecoma Serbia" amounted to 11.3 billion dinars. At the end of 2013, 15.3 billion dinars or growth of "only" 36.2%. So 36.2% is better management, better management, better government relationship, better business for Telekom Srbija in just a year. Growth in 2014, and here we have already stepped in 2015, continued, and in 2014 profit, net profit, completed business year on 16 billion dinars. These results are expected and require one support. They expect applause in the National Assembly, not confusion with various “lex specials, ” and various “lex individuals. ” At that time, in 2014 it ended with revenue of over 90 billion dinars. The proceeds of Telekom Srbija in the past year, i.e. already in the previous 2013 amounted to 89.1 billion dinars. We have growth in Telecom and by income. What is particularly interesting is the net debt "Telecoma Serbia" in 2012 at the time of the acquisition of the company from the former regime, which the company borrowed from about 70 billion dinars of debt, by a year's operating debt is reduced to 51.7 billion dinars, while in 2014 the debt is further reduced and at this point the company Telecom has a debt of 41 billion dinars. This is the second indicator of one domestic correct, quality business, that the debt is reduced by two years from 70 billion dinars to 41 billion, i.e. by more than 250m euros in repayable debt, and that there are continuous investments and there is a smooth payment of dividends to the shareholders of "Telecoma Serbia". These are indicators seeking applause in the National Assembly and support for management, support from the RS government for such management and set up such business "Telecoma Serbia" and made it possible for you on the one hand to gain from 11.3 to 16 billion dinars, and on the other hand to have a reduction for the same two years of "Telecoma Serbia" debt for more than 250m euros with dividend payments, plus investments. For all this time, according to the results of the business that we do not want to lose in 2013 it was approved and paid 7.6 billion dinars in the name of dividends. In 2014, 10.5 billion dinars were granted on behalf of dividend shareholders whose payment is planned by the end of January 2015. Out of the 18.1 billion dinars, 13.1 billion dinars remained small shareholders. By not accepting such a law on companies, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, are we ready to give up and do the works of dividends, are we ready to forget them, delete them, throw them away? This is what the promoters of such an amendment with the naturally famous – Article 1 is deleted, without any strong business. What also deserves support, which is the business of Telecom Serbia, which, after several consecutive years of rapid decline in the number of users from 2008 to 2012, in which Telecom lost over 800,000 mobile phone users, Telecom Serbia managed to stabilise the user base in 2013, completely halt the decline and remain a leader with 4.2 million users whose number remained stable during 2014. We can talk a lot about "Telecom Serbia" and when it comes to internet and multimedia and integrated services and fixed telephony, when it comes to it. I think this proposed law is good without any changes, no erasure, no nothing, because that erasure, that one sentence, so famous and so offended in the National Assembly - Article 1. "is deleted" without any explanation, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we, as a society, are losing us directly or indirectly more than 40 billion dinars, which, of course, we cannot allow.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19824	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Dr. Ivica Jevtic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19825	The respected chairman, respected ministers, guests, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the amendment and the amendment certainly should not be accepted, as well as 99% of the amendments, as even the proposings themselves would not accept such amendments if they were in our place. The amendment “wipes” is not deleted and that is more than a sufficient answer, and this is probably done by the inert of deleting bank accounts that have been deleted and millions taken to other places. One question for all of us – does most of us want EU membership? All the polls say most of our fellow citizens want that, as most of us here do. Are the laws we adopt here in accordance with the relevant EU laws? Lawyers say they are, according to the EU commission. If hundreds of millions of EU citizens live and work in accordance with these laws, why can't a few million of us? If they're good for them, why do we need to improve them, under the quote, and why does the opposition have to be more Catholic than the Pope? Hundreds of unacceptable amendments are "expunged" ahead of us. There's no need, gentlemen, let's pass the law and simply if we want to join the EU, that's what we have to do. If you wanted, gentlemen of the former regime, in 12 years of uncut rule, you could have twice introduced Serbia into the EU, passed all these laws already, not that we have to do it now, and you've remembered to fix them now. There's no need, gentlemen. Let's once in our history do something calm, for our own good, and we have opportunities for that. The amendments to which the point is added, the decimal point, that's better than the amendment "is deleted", and your happiness when adopted is unimaginable. Put in five amendments, of which three, four will be adopted, that is a success, and to invest 100, and to have one adopted, that is devastating. You have had time since the "wind in the back" revolution, from all over the EU, from all over the world, but you have not used that support for your country, but for yourself. If your goal is to keep talking as long as possible, so long as you're on TV, here, please cameraman that while I and my colleagues who agree with me talk, let the camera shoot you. We don't care about that, we care about opening up some new infirmary, factory, bridge, new jobs, like 1500 new jobs in Smederevo, Jagodina, Priboj, Piroth, to save 5,000 early jobs in Jelizara, etc., where we are very grateful to the Government and Prime Minister. By the way, the PHC hala cost less than sixm euros, and imagine how many such halls could have been made out of 50 billion euros that were wiped out of Serbia. Then, when we open something new, we can take a picture of ourselves, you come along, and we leave the painting here to you, because every time you show up, we grow a rating, no matter how many measures we take are not popular, but the people understand it and see one household behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19826	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19827	Thank you. Along with colleagues Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and colleagues from his parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Martinovic and Dragan Sutanovac, I have signed an amendment asking that the first member of the proposed amendments be deleted and the addition of the Business Society Act, for at least two good reasons. First of all, the whole idea changes in an inappropriate way because of one company. With full understanding, without a single flaw, without even one fact about the extortion that this is about, but with a commitment, because neither one of the opposition nor anywhere has created an extortion by which such solutions are made by the government. You created it yourself, and it can't go without notice and for at least two reasons, first, which is true, verifiable and proven, and secondly, as a warning that you don't bring yourself into extortion and second time and that you don't expect that support for reforms in Serbia is shown through – it doesn't matter what they do, it's important what they say, and they talk nicely. I don't care what you say, I don't care what you do. The work on this law is in extortion and should not happen. The second reason is that, in the context of the bill to the National Assembly, so to all the MPs, the government sent a request for retroactiveness, clearly explained. In support of the amendment that this article is deleted, I must mention, quite knowing that there is no vote on the argument, but also with the awareness that the Government does not know what the argument is. If this Business Society Act does not require retroactiveness in the voting day, then there is no need for the Government to explain this request to the Assembly in the proposal, and if so, only then is the first argument that it is an extortion and that it is not sufficiently thorough, that it is superficial, it stands as an explanation for the amendment to delete this article. In my principle debate, I explained why I was against the amendment and addition of the Business Society Act, and I did not hear any argument that would put into a dilemma, which would put me in doubt that I did not see good arguments that I am against the amendments and addition of the Business Society Act. The ideas of the principle debate on the fact that after the adoption of this Law "Telecom" will seek a privatisation advisor created my question – and what will this privatisation advisor newly determine regarding what has not been done in the past three years? I fully understand the need and obligation of the government to defend itself at all costs, but I do not understand the refusal of dialogue on things that the government does not attack, which is a fundamentalty, a different approach to the privatisation process, if there is already a critical observation that privatisation has failed in these three years, and what I would personally advocate, a dialogue with the management of Telecom. We have years ahead of us that I want this amendment not to be bought for years, another three years where there will be no privatisation or there will be another extortion after the law, but that there will be years in which the Government will be through dialogue with Telecom, a conscious fact, to do the best possible job, not just for Telecom as a society, not just for all the users of Telecom, but for society in general. Mixing this law with the European agenda and mixing the facts concerning Telecom's business with the reform process is not good and is not an argument. My recommendation is to mix this law with the European spirit that governs when it comes to regulation, and it goes through dialogue. If there is in this dialogue a proposal where there is a direct conflict, under the pretext of a different approach, to say more precisely, between what Telecom has to offer as an idea and the Government, then we should come here and together take responsibility with full awareness of why we choose a model of privatisation, why we delay it, why we speed it up, why we do anything. That is the basic meaning of the argument I have for the amendment to delete Article 1 of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19828	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19829	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, in a very short time, to try a few sentences in a way to say why the amendment's proposings are wrong and why they are lumpy, and here are the previous speakers in this assembly today. One of the previous amendment's proposings said the bill reveals the government's irresponsibility. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is the bill of law that reveals the responsibility of this government, that it is extremely responsible. I refer Mr Pavicevic to the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vukic, on page 16 and 17, where he is talking about and where we fully fulfil what we have promised both here and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, not only in the exposé, but also in the Budget Law, and one law and another law, what we have promised, in some way and as MPs, we are fulfilling it, as the Assembly, and the government is indeed holding these deadlines as one responsible government. Furthermore, Mr Pavicevic says - he does not fulfil his duties. Well, just by passing this law, he's doing his job. These flat rates don't stand. That doesn't stand, I'm sorry, Mr. Pavicevic, not the MP, but it doesn't stand for any university professor. I call on Mr Pavicevic to read once again the exposés of the government and the proposal for this law, because he aims to preserve state capital through the kind of preservation of actions, and that is exactly what the predecessors did not do. The government has just indicated the responsibility and irresponsibility of the former government and the former regime that led to the collapse of these companies, etc. I call on him, as a responsible man, to include him in Serbia's modernisation a little. At least a little. The aim of modernisation is to get Serbia on the road, to be a well-organised and modern state, not to be a state without law, without a system, etc. Once again, I urge him to be involved in the modernisation process, if not in the name of nothing, then on behalf of ethical responsibility and civil integrity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19830	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19831	Thank you. Very short. Just a few more words in favour of the proposal for the amendment and amendments of this kind to be rejected. First of all, because we have not heard the reasons why this or the next member of the law should be deleted, which should be respected in terms of consequences. We have heard assessments that are purely accompanying nature and concerning someone's responsibilities or lack of responsibility, whether we are in some kind of teat or extortion, as it is said, but neither of them has anything to do with what the law predicts and its consequences. These are by-products, as well as what we received in written explanations. Were there or were there no other ways to repair the situation of a company? Will he be or will he be no longer interested in this company tomorrow? These are personal assessments and these are not indicating the shortcomings of the proposed legal solution. What makes sense when you're looking for erasure and rejection, is to point to the problem. This is not the kind of approach we do, not in written explanations, not in today's debate. When it is said that all of this is done because of one company and that it is seen from an explanation, all of which is so, it can't be a system problem, until as long as the text of the law doesn't mention the name of a company and thus dissipate the story in the way that the amendment promoter would want to show it. Let's take a good look at what the text of the law looks like, and we'll see that there are no such errors in the text. So, he's got his community in the right form, which he deserves to have, he does. When it all comes together, there's absolutely no need, until we hear of one single negative consequence of the adoption of this law, to talk about the need for rejection. Until we hear it, and I'm interested in whether or not we're going to, and I doubt that we will, there's no need for us to insist on rejecting, erasing members of the law, so there's no need for anyone to be angry if he continues to act like that, and he's faced with the assessment that he's only doing it because of the story as a story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19832	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19833	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that this amendment be rejected, but all other amendments in the text are deleted. I'm sorry we came back to this situation so we could have these amendments, so written and so formalized amendments, but my God. What particularly bothers me, Madam Chairman, is the explanation of the motions of this amendment or at least the part where the proposed amendments and additions of the law of the states are completely deviating from the reform course, or reform direction, as they have formulated. The accusation that we're turning from the reform direction would be meaningful if it didn't come from the parties of the former regime. Thanks to the irresponsibility and haughtiness of the former regime's parties as they exercised power, we are today forced to these reform measures. We don't have another time today. We have no other choice today. We must implement reform measures, but we are forced to some unpopular measures, such as the austerity measures we are carrying out, as well as other measures, all in order to fiscal consolidation, financial stability and economic recovery. So I ask you to reject this and any subsequent amendments that are written in the text – delete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19834	Thank you. You've wasted your time, and you asked for it this morning. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: There are no MPs of the Progressive Party who did not mention me. I don't know about Advanced, but in the Serbian Progressive Party, they didn't mention you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes, everyone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Minister Sertić, I'm sorry that you don't get involved in this debate a little bit, to hear your judgment on this argument, which I added an explanation for our amendment to Article 1 where it writes - is deleted. Dear President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I now wish to say two things here regarding our amendment to article 1 of this bill. First of all, respected SNS gentlemen, it is sometimes better to accept the amendment of which is contained – it is deleted than to vote for the content of the proposed laws. Dear gentlemen, Minister Selakovic's case is the best example. Madam President, that Minister Selakovic was there in August, so in November he listened when we told him to delete...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19836	We'll leave that for the afternoon debate. You're replicating someone who spoke of you as an applicant and the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19837	It's being erased, and I'm giving an example that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19838	You can't go global right now. You can, but it's not quite right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19839	President, I hereby defend the dignity of the Assembly, because I would like to explain that the amendment: "is deleted" is sometimes better than the adoption of some law. I don't want Mr. Sertic following a bad example of Mr. Selakovic. The second thing, gentlemen, is that we consider it an important order of steps. The government, if it failed to do something, had to come to this Assembly, and above all, the Prime Minister, to file an account for inaction, damage or potential damage, and then, gentlemen, together, to try to find the best way to correct what was done very badly. That's why I hope the amendment will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19840	Thank you. The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19841	You know, when someone doesn't want to hear or close their ears and eyes to success, I have to repeat them. What harm does the Prime Minister or someone from the government have to come for? Is it a shame that between 2012, when the company and the company ran the former regime and the one supported by the amendment's proposal, where they made a profit of 11.3 billion dinars, or now that the profit has been increased by two years to 16 billion dinars? What's the damage? Is it a shame that dividends were paid? Is it a shame that Telecom's income has been increased to 90 billion dinars? Is it a shame that Telecom's debt has been reduced by 250m euros? We have a key question here – a different system of values. For me, for the Serbian Progressive Party, for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the system of values is when you reduce debt, when you increase revenues, when you pay dividends, when you have investments. It's worth it to me. It's obviously a shame for someone in this room. What is worth and what benefits us as society, citizens, the state of Serbia, is for someone a pity. What is worth and what benefits us, as societies, citizens, the state of Serbia, is for someone a pity. Well, let's get out now, and let's say it's a shame that the debt is reduced by 250m euros, that the dividend was paid, of which 13.1 billion dinars belong to the state of Republika Srpska, that the profit has been increased to 16 billion dinars by 11.3 billion in just two years. Well, say, gentlemen, that's too bad. It's a shame there's more to the citizens of Serbia. Now, that's what the amendment promoter wants to present, better results as damage. Is it self-damaging or damage to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? This is profit, these are good results. Because of this, as I said earlier, both the government and the prime minister and the management expect and deserve positive reviews and commendation. This is what we fought for. Don't sell for a handful of salt Telekom, like it was a tendency a few years ago. For how long? For 800m euros, for another 420m euros, in nine equal wars for nine years. Was that the price of Telekom? Well, it wasn't sold. Of course it wasn't sold, but it wasn't sold because of the pressure we were doing at the time so it wouldn't sell. Because we were against the sale of Telekom, I don't know what. Because something to sell has to get the right value. In order to gain the right value, it must show business as shown in the previous two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19842	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19843	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is said to be reforming this law, as I understand it. We think it's not reformal because there's an exception and we explained it in the very explanation. We don't see why the MPs of the majority don't want to accept it. If the rules change in the middle of a process, then it's not a free market and we've talked about it already. Minister, you stated that there was no retroactive fact at the session itself during the debate in principle. It is clear in its explanation that there is a feedback of this law. Where are the transitional and final provisions defining which parts of the old law apply to this change, and what happens to minority shareholders? When it comes to the value of Telekom, the market, I'm not sure that the current privatisation will achieve a higher price than 800 million for 40% of the stock. That's two billion for Telekom, when you look at the total value, a hundred percent share. What changed since 2011 to today in the telecommunications market? Nothing has changed, the value of Telekom is higher, and the market in Serbia is bigger and there is no difference. If, when you were an opposition, you filed criminal charges for privatisation, I'm sure they'll get the full facts when you now sell Telekom Srbija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19844	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19845	Thank you, Your Honor. If he can, I'd like to use the time of the parliamentary group. If the ruling majority could agree on the story of the MPs. So we hear that this law has a general character and that it does not apply to Telekom Srbija, and then we're just talking about Telekom Srbija, about the results of Telekom Srbija. The reason for the law discusses Telekom Srbija, which explains the non-admission of the amendments tells of Telekom Srbija. It is clear to all of us that this law is passed only because of one company and there is no generality. You guys, what you're doing here today, you name the law, and we're gonna do it in the afternoon, and you're doing it all the time, and it's bad, and we're pointing to it. The laws should be general, in order to be reform they must contain a vision within themselves, not that someone remembers at the end of the year to expire or that the deadline has expired, so now we do not know whether or not it has expired. The minister says in an explanation – no, it expires on January 25th, and in the light of the law, it states that the deadline has expired and that therefore a return fact is proposed, on the basis of Article 197. The Constitution, which the Assembly needs to declare. Come on, make a deal on what this law is and what you want with it. And it can't be reformed because there's no reform here. We can always talk about the results of Telekom, about this increase in profits, how much it has increased through dividend payments, and how reduced investment is and how less competitive Telekom is today, compared to another time. Where's the development of the 4G grid? Where are the services offered by other TV operators for fixed telephony? What did we have? I don't know, 670 dinars for two million and 300,000 subscribers every month. Well, of course there's more money, but is that money just because it's back in the budget spent the best way possible? And how much the price of Telekom will be, we shall see. We didn't accept that price you were talking about. That's why it's pointless for you to criticize us. We didn't accept it because we didn't think it was a good offer when it was given. We'll see under what conditions you'll sell Telekom because what you're doing is getting ready to sell Telekom, and no reform is at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19846	The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19847	I thought I wasn't burdening the National Assembly with things that are technical. However, Telekom's theme was imposed several days ago in a principle debate. I wouldn't want any questions to go unanswered. But I'm willing to talk about these things that are part of the technical stuff imposed by the previous speaker. As far as fixed telephony is concerned, I think she suffers the consequences of falling everywhere in the world. At the end of 2014, Telekom Srbija has 2.6 million users, with a market share of 96%. As for mobile telephony, I'll repeat, after several consecutive years of rapid decline in the number of users from 2008 to 2012, I guess good business gets a downturn in business and I guess good competitiveness gets a decline in the number of mobile phone users. Over 800,000 mobile phone users were lost during that period of just four years, with good business. That's why you couldn't get a better price than these 800m euros. Telekom Srbija managed to stabilise the user base, stop the fall in 2013 and remain a leader with 4.2 million users, whose number is stable and preserved throughout 2014. The internet and multimedia market in the previous two years has seen an intense increase in the number of users, which I am sure will continue in 2015. In the last two years, and this is why you couldn't get a better price for Telekom, the growth of ADSL users is 80,000, and now the number of these users is 700,000 Internet users. A major shift was made when it comes to IPTV services. Questions have been asked, so I'd like my colleagues to hear them. If they don't want to hear it, they can get out of the O.R. The year 2014 has been a record since the introduction of this service in 2008. Growth is in 2014 for about 70,000 IPTV users. Integrated services, an intense increase in the number of users of convergence packages, as users recognized the benefits that Telekom Serbia has given them through boxing packages, so in the last five years this number of users has been fivefold higher. That's why you couldn't get a higher price for Telekom at the time you wanted to sell it and use it for a pre-election campaign. This is why we've been fighting for the last two years -- more users, higher incomes, higher profits, a 250m-euro debt reduction. This leaves me unclear, and I highly appreciate and respect my colleague, and we are from the same end, when he says nothing has changed in the telecommunications market. Nothing may have changed in the telecommunications market, but in Telekom things have changed, with more users, with increased revenues, with increased profits and reduced debts. Now, that's good business. Good business has changed, good management, which is more of a prerequisite for better prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19848	Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blažje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19849	This Article 1 has in fact shown in the right way how the government, the ministry, refers to the National Assembly and how it understands the rule of law. Namely, this member has broken all the basic principles of law. Some of my colleagues have already mentioned it. So, Article 1 to which we have submitted the amendment is an example of the practice by which the laws apply to certain persons, certain persons, or certain companies, in this case certain shareholders. So, not "erga omnes", but according to specific faces. In this case, for small shareholders, or ‘Telecoma’ shareholders, or ‘Telecoma’. There's nothing to add. You've passed the law to apply it only to Telecom, to cover the fact that you haven't thought in time, even though you have, for three years now, that's how long you've been in power, you haven't noticed, the Ministry has not noticed that it's time to sell your own actions and you're passing a law that will only work on Telecom shareholders. We have seen some amendments today, perhaps and not just to Telecom shareholders, we will talk about it when we talk about Article 2. On the other hand, this member has violated the other principle that has been in force in all the rule of law since the application of Roman law until today, that the laws act in advance. In advance, not backwards, not retroactively. This article is applied retroactively. I am surprised that the Progressive Party, which has been named "Advanced", is passing laws that act backwards. That's just saying enough about them. One MP said earlier, of course, who doesn't have too many arguments, but tends to do some things that have nothing to do with sound logic. He says, "Telecom" won a profit in 2014 of 16 billion dinars. We know where that money went, they went to a bottomless hole, the budget of the Republic of Serbia. And why are you selling it, gentlemen? Why are you selling a company that makes an annual profit of 16 billion dinars? It's about 110m euros, 120m euros, according to some free bill. Mr. Sertić, with some investment, that buyer will pay off the investment in a few years. Why, gentlemen, in 2010 when it was important to sell Telecom, you, or your Prime Minister, said that the sale of Telecom was without host and irresponsible behaviour of the government. Well, you've made an antithesis of what you're doing now. You decided through this article to apply what you said in 2010 was irresponsible and non-domestic. You sell Telecom, although it is irresponsible and non-domestic. You sell Telecom even though it earns 120m euros annually. That profit will go to someone else's owner tomorrow, and you've disabled through this member the possibility of small shareholders having the right to even the first purchase of their own actions. You've broken more principles to this member. We tried to correct, that at least there was, to remove the principle that they only function for one of the economic operators, so we said that the number of shares that can be sold after that three-year period would be 30%, that it was not seen that it was drawn "Telecom". So we tried at least that way to extend the fact to other companies. We see that through the amendments you've submitted, you've relativized it. You seem to have a new mind over the weekend, or I don't know what. No wonder you're passing the laws today, so you're changing them in seven days, but I don't know what happened that you've submitted two amendments that essentially alter these two key laws. On the other hand, Mr Sertic, you are reacting to the ignorance of Serbian Progressive Party counterparts, who claim there would be damage to Telecom if this law had not been passed. No, Mr. Sertich, you're a businessman and you know what this is about. It's about own actions. It's about fictitious actions that don't have market value. The fact that these actions would be possible through the accumulation of ordinary actions, preferential actions, those actions would disappear, and the capital of society would remain the same. You didn't protect anything. Someone mentioned that you protected the state for not knowing how many million euros. It's a purely notorious lie. You haven't made any protection with this law. So you've only brought the book value of Telecom to some new ones and made it impossible for Telecom shareholders to buy their own Telecom actions. So, you just made those two. There was no change in market value, nor would it occur, nor would any damage occur for Telecom. So these games and stories where you're the protectors of something that "Telecom" has blossomed since you came to power, it's not true. You don't have investments in Telecom, you're out of technology, you don't have new investments. You've invested all your profits in a bottomless hole, your budget, and we already know, these days I see how your ministers have budgets. I guess it's already clear to everyone, even with all these media and the way they work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19850	The word has Minister Zeljko Sertic, as a proponent, the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19851	I would make only a few comments on the statements of some MPs, and I will start from this final conclusion that accounting and formality would not change the current situation in terms of the outflow or inflow of money, but the market value of a company, especially as large as Telecom, affects many elements. The possibility of investment in the next period, balance sheet status and all of those elements affecting the development of a particular activity. That's where the problem is right now. In order to leave the capital that you indicated and which would be one of the previous ones, we would have to enter the procedure in which the part of the unscheduled profits would be transferred to the company's capital. At that moment, the company balances become different and the possibility of borrowing for investments, for the next period, so the "cash lou" and all other elements in the next period would cease to be a problem. So in this sense and in the broader context of thinking, it is important how we function. The second thing, January 25th is the deadline when actions expire. We don't have a retroactive fact of this law. The third thing, at one point you supported that this whole story be erased and that we didn't have an increase of 10 per cent to 20 per cent of our own actions, and then you suggested that we increase it to 30%, just so that it wasn't just a "Telecoma" issue. Well, we have come out very bravely and very openly and said – yes, it is very important for us to have our largest telecommunications operator, that the largest company, that one of Serbia's engines of development of the economy, works successfully in the next period. To prepare this, we also consider a strategic partnership or a kind of sale. That's why we came in, and that's where I agree with Member Komic, who is not here right now, and we need to talk to everyone right now. So that's what we do with management and unions together, we take steps, what is the future of the company in the coming years, to be 2014/2015. A year, but all the years ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19852	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19853	I just thought that some amendments could be commended, at least to praise him for his creativity, for a different approach than the naked one – it is deleted, but in the explanation of the amendment's proposal, which spoke about everything not only about the amendment, but it is already some of the manners that we are exposed here, and we will unfortunately be exposed in the next period. But what I want to ask the amendment promoter, and who digs that hole with no bottom of the budget? Well, you've dug it up, gentlemen, and you've been deluding it for years and instead of filling it, you've just been going on and just making a bigger hole without a bottom, and you've just been going on, and you've just been digging further, and that way you're just putting the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in that hole, and now you're wrong about the measures and the brave moves and the reform moves of the government of the Republic of Serbia we're looking to bury that hole that you've made, and now you're wrong about the hole being buried. Now you're wrong that the course has changed and the way we treat politics, and now you're wrong that we're getting praises from all sides. You closed your ears and eyes when, a few days ago, as a guest of the government of the Republic of Serbia, he was also the foreign minister of Great Britain. What did he say then? He commended everything that you now call a bottomless hole here, because it's the only way and the only way to heal the public finances you've ever gotten, and now you're wrong that someone's treating those finances and that someone's burying that hole, that bottomless hole that you gentlemen made. Retroactivity. Guys, where does it say retroactiveness? Here, I will read Article 1 which says - in the Law on Business Companies in Article 287 after Article 4 a new position of 5 is added - especially in the case of a company that is not public within the meaning of a law governing the capital market, the total value of the acquired company’s own shares that the company may retain after the expiry of the term set out in Article 4 of this Article cannot be greater than 20% of the underlying capital the promoter asks for 30%, the present position 5 becomes item 6. What retroactiveness, if, as Mr Sertic said nicely, that 20% of his own actions "Telecom Serbia" received on January 25th 2012, if today is January 19th, and I believe we will vote these laws today on January 19th 2015, which retroactivity? Which deadlines have passed, or it's just been learned, trained in front of the mirror, and now come on, somebody's gonna believe it. Where does it say? What are you talking about? Someone who's a doctor of science, I guess legal science has to talk about what he writes, not what he wants to write. When it is said that the worse the results of Telecom business are not enough to shoot an arrow, it is not enough to drop a stone, and we saw a few days ago how this stone as a boomerang returned to whoever threw it. It's not enough to say worse are business results. Where are the worse ones? You have a worse result of your business by the fact that 250m euros at this point in "Telecom Serbia" are less in charge than at the time when you led it. You're getting worse by "Telecom Serbia" by three years, here's the third year of business from 11.3 to 16 billion dinars. I don't talk cheerleading, I don't talk, I don't talk, I don't talk, I don't talk, I don't talk, I don't talk, I don't talk, I don't talk, I don't talk, I don't know. I'm not going to perform with songs, so I'm going to say, "What does one who changes the name of a party do, a little social, a little new, I don't know which one?" That's not appropriate, I mean the New Democratic Party. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yeah. I'm sorry, Mr. Pavicevic. It's not appropriate, it's not a theme for this tall home. Let's get out of those hate sheets once and talk about what's written, about the facts. Why is it that an argument that is exact, which is true, which is part of a business that cannot be hidden, which cannot be presented differently, why do you say to such data – no, you are not what you are? Do you think that's how you're going to make a political point? No, I don't. Hatred didn't lead anyone on the right path. We were against selling Telecom. No secret. Against the sale at a time when these funds were intended for a pre-election campaign, for funding a pre-election campaign, for getting some elections, for the price of a handful of salt, of course we were against it. Of course we're for sale at the time when you can get decent money and a decent price. In order to obtain a decent price, the number of users must be increased. They have to cut the debt, they have to increase the profits, and for someone, the increase in profits is a bad result. What is it other than not having logic or having a hate for your country and society? The assets of hatred that this bottomless hole that you've dug up, what is being buried and what we want and what we want to heal public finances, that those who brought this virus into our public finances say – and why are you treating it? Why don't you just let it go? It is at least rude and therefore the SNS is of course against this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19854	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19855	Replica, Honorable President, please. Because the MP's group was mentioned. [[Zoran Babiæ, from the place: On what basis is the replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19856	Because you mentioned the party's name. (Zoran Babic, from the scene: But they are not the New Party. It is, of course...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19857	You were talking about a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19858	No, you said SDS at one point, I knew there'd be a replica, just for that. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19859	Thank you for following the esteemed president. That hole was two and a half years ago, three years ago, twice as small as it is now. Forty-five percent was public debt three years ago, 45 percent. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Swear.) ) Here, sir, if you don't understand something, you can go to the Ministry of Finance site, Public Debt Administration and see for years. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Well, by age. ) After years of seeing, from 2000 to today and then you can see that the public debt situation at the end of 2011 was 14.7 billion, if you look at it for months, you can see that in July 2012 there were 15.9 billion, and now over 22 billion is 700 million euros or over 72%, and you're not burying that hole, but you're digging it deeper and deeper and deeper with less hope that this country will come out of debt. These are the results of this government's work over the last two and a half years. You can repeat as many times as you want if someone were guilty, if you knew and could, you would stop it, you wouldn't dig that hole any further. You say yourself that at the end of this year it will be 77%, 80 at the end of next year, and then maybe it will stop. Unfortunately, with this knowledge, that is, ignorance and this kind of work will not stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19860	Zoran Babic, personal address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19861	Let's see the responsibility for which only interest-based expenditure in 2008 was 200m euros, and the cost based on the 2015 budget interest, 1.2 billion euros. On the basis of which borrowings and borrowings now must this Government of the Republic of Serbia and this budget be paid back? Shall we also talk about hidden guarantees? Do you want to talk about guarantees you didn't show anywhere that weren't part of the consolidated budget were below the line? Are we going to talk about the commitments that came out and why you drove the IMF away? You can show that table, you've done it and you've read it in a way that your prime minister went to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and said -- Serbia has statistically come out of the crisis, but its citizens won't feel it. On the other hand, what you don't understand, except that you're holding a table, you don't know what it is, and you don't know what it is that because we got a B plus a credit rating that nobody's talking about, and why you got a B plus a credit rating, why it's improved, increased for us? Because of the measures we're carrying out. Why are the loans we get far more favourable now? Because we're returning your loans, because you're in debt at 7%, 8%, and you've left it below the line, and if you've put it below the line, you've had to have the IMF as a kind of monitoring to get out of the country and now you're showing it as a way to do business. So why did you lose the election in 2012 if it was good in Serbia? Why did everyone turn their backs on you, both international institutions and citizens of the Republic of Serbia? You can take that document and that table home as evidence of stupidity and evidence of the irresponsible economic and financial policy you've been leading for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19862	The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19863	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs, in the light of this amendment, we have heard that a certain principle of retroactiveness, which is Mr. Minister, and we all here have had the opportunity to hear, simply does not exist. If the term when approximately actions stand out, which are termed by previous laws, expires on January 25th, then no one here sees that principle of retroactivity. Therefore, the presentation of certain arguments only for the purpose of exporting and justifying the amendment type – it is deleted, simply not standing. What I am amazed at, and I think my colleagues who have heard, is that Telecom actions have no value. That was one of the reasons. Should all Telecom employees now simply be small shareholders in Telecom say that their actions are worthless? It simply does not exist as a real fact in society, and therefore, this kind of justification for such amendments in the public disabling the public, disabling Serbian citizens about the fact that there is a certain value of capital, especially when we say that the participation of state capital is 58% in Telecom and that a simple concept in which the value of capital in state ownership should be preserved. This concept will be not only in these laws, but in all those covering economic reforms. The second thing, when we talk about economic reforms and why right now this guy's law, then the full explanation goes in the direction that simply these types of laws have to exist at certain times that there are those that apply exclusively to Telecom, but also to others. We had one amendment to the Committee that we tried to include the largest and wider number of companies in this kind of law, but what is important is that when you carry out economic reforms, you first have to determine what incomes and expenditures are and determine what state capital is, or what you have. When you finish a certain fiscal year, Telecom is one of the companies that had to have the end of the fiscal year, which is 31. 12. In 2014, only then can you determine what the balances are and what the company's capital is, and that's why it's only now after 31. 12. 2014 It means that the Ministry's explanation goes completely in that direction of economic reform. When you signed an agreement with the IMF, you made a lot of commitments, both on income and on expenditure, but also on the guarantee that simply that capital that you entered into that agreement with the IMF was standing as a state behind it and the state was behind the fact that there really was that capital in that value. Therefore, any kind of reasoning that we had from the promoter is completely irresponsible and shows the irresponsibility of the policy that was led until 2012. And when you talk about the fact that in 2010, Telecom simply did non-domestic business and that Mr. Vukic was one of those who at the time said that he should not sell Telecom, he was completely justified. At the time loans were raised in values where interest rates were between 7% and 8%, when the budgets simply had no real revenue at all, when the simple state could not function in a way that was predictable, when investors had no interest in investing in Serbia and when, simply, then governments and ministers could not get the price that was real in the capital market. That's why they didn't sell Telecom, because they weren't able to get at least 800 million, but not 800 million for the real price of the stock. This means that these amendments of this type should not be accepted, but should be condemned in a moral sense, because do not disavow the public with facts that do not exist. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19864	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19865	Are you giving me the right to replicate as an amendment bearer?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19866	You can only speak by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19867	Okay. I'll use the time of the authorized representative. I am very surprised not by Mr Babic, who has a learned song that he sings about every law, probably not by reading it, but by the minister and colleague Tomic. Mr. Sertic, you said this law has no feedback, if I understand correctly. Mrs. Tomic said this law has no feedback. (Alexandra Tomic, from the place: Retroactive. ) Return, or retroactive fact, that is the same. Mr. Sertich, is this law yours, your government? I guess so. Chapter Six says this - a general interest that suggests a return fact. In Article 197. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that the laws cannot have a return fact and is then explained why this law should have a return fact and in the end – the return fact creates the necessary legal preconditions for avoiding the negative financial consequences for Telekom Srbija and in particular for the Republic of Serbia and other shareholders of the "Telecoma Serbia" a.d. Belgrade, which would appear to occur in the event of retaining an existing legal solution. Therefore, it is clearly and explicitly said that this law has a feedback, or retroactive fact. I don't know what's unclear about that. Anyone who has read this law and its explanation has seen that it has a feedback. On the other hand, the fact has been mentioned... I still don't understand how my colleague Tomic didn't understand. So I can try, try to explain, but I can't understand someone else. I can't try to understand the name of another. I said clearly – the market value of Telecom would not be compromised. In this regard, the minister defused with me and said that the market value is not only of accounting value but also of a number of other factors. In that part, ministers could agree, though the foreign investor is interested above all in how much the company is worth and how much it will be able to make in Serbia's market and that's the end. What is the accounting value and credit rating for borrowing, I don't think he cares that much, since I don't think the future investor will be in debt. At least I don't think you're going to bring such an investor into the country, but we could argue about it. But when I said it didn't affect market value, I didn't say that those actions were worth nothing, but that they could disappear through the accumulation of actions and that no market value damage would happen. On the other hand, gentlemen, you're talking about a bottomless hole. Well, you only paid 100 million dinars last year for loans that you didn't withdraw, and you didn't pull them because you're incompetent, because the money that was already secured you couldn't spend... (Zoran Babic, from Becic, does he tell you that you are incompetent? ) What my colleague Djurisic may not have been precise to the end... Please, Mr. Babic is distracting me by throwing me away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19868	Mr. Babic is rightly insolent because you use words that are not suitable for this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19869	Like what? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: And what he used earlier – rude, irresponsible? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19870	Mr. Djurishic, don't throw it away. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Listen a little.) I listen very well. Mr. Djurishic, you know very well that you can't throw it out of the bench in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19871	All governments, including the government of Milka Planinc, i.e. during Josip Broz Tito by 2000, i.e. by 2011, if we are looking at that period, were in debt by 12 billion euros. This government is in charge of 7.5 billion by yesterday in two years, and as of today, eight billion and 100 million euros, because today we will ratify another loan. So much for a bottomless hole and who's the real one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19872	Thank you. You only have one minute and 40 seconds left from the time of the parliamentary group. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: He used the time of the authorised representative. Here, I wasn't there the whole time, the card was drawn. You cannot play with the National Assembly. It has just been said that he cannot speak and receive a replica on behalf of the parliamentary group when you are here. If you're saying you weren't in the O.R. right now... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: The card was drawn, I wasn't. It's okay, if you say you weren't in the O.R., then we'll take that time from the time of the head of the parliamentary group. The word has been issued by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yes, by amendment, I have listened carefully to the debate of the former regime's MPs and in principle today in particular. I've listened to legal lessons, wrong legal lessons and wrong financial lessons. Let's look back at these legal lessons. Right away, I have no right to resent the legal ignorance of the MPs of the former regime who are not lawyers. They don't even need to know. Neither Mr. Pavicevic nor Mr. Djurisic must know that. Mr. Vesenovic should already know that, because I hope he was reading some textbooks in the field of state and law theory. In these textbooks he could read that when the law is said, the law has two meanings – materially and formally. (Gordana Comić, from the place: Is this on the agenda? ) Mrs. Comić, if you had the presidency now, you would probably have given me a warning, since it was a regular practice for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19874	Please, Mr. Martinovic, don't flaunt with Mrs. Comic. Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19875	You might have kicked me out of the O.R., but that time of tyranny was over, so now I can speak freely in the National Assembly. The word law has a material and formal meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19876	Mrs. Comic, allow the speaker to complete the presentation. (Gordana Comić, from the place: I am not in the way of him. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19877	In a material sense, the law is every general legal act. So, in a material sense, the law is also the Constitution, the law is the act passed by the National Assembly, the law is in a material sense and the government's regulation, the laws are in a material sense and sublegal acts of the ministries. What is the law in the formal sense? If someone adopts a legislative body by legislative procedure and by the name of the law. We are now talking about a bill on amendments and additions to the Business Society Act. This bill, that is, today when we adopt the law, will be the law in both the material sense and the law in a formal sense. Why? In a formal sense, because it has passed a legislative body under a legislative procedure, it is called the law. In a material sense, when you look at Article 1, Article 2, Article 3 and Article 4, all the general legal norms themselves. The "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" publishes the text of the law. In the text of the law, i.e. in the text of the draft law, neither in Article 1, nor in Article 2, nor in Article 3, nor in Article 4, shall any undertaking be mentioned. Article 1 refers to a company that is not public within the meaning of a law governing the capital market, and Article 2 refers to a public company. So there's no talking about any particular company. All these bad legal lessons about this being some lex individualis, although I first heard about this syntagma, just don't stand. So this is also law in material but also law in a formal sense. As for the lesson in respecting the Constitution, let's say something about the subject. Since 2006, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been adopted by consensus of all then relevant political parties, with one party, DS, when a referendum for the adoption of the Constitution took place, all forces have worked to ensure that the Constitution does not go through and that constitution has passed and that constitution is valid. Today, those who worked directly against the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are calling for the same Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Politically, it's not correct, it's formal-law. Now let's look at the member per member, Article 1, Article 2, Article 3 and Article 4. What is not constitutional in Article 1, what is not constitutional in Article 2, what is not constitutional in Article 3 and what is not constitutional in Article 4? Tell me specifically which member of the Constitution is injured in Article 1, in Article 2, in Articles 3 and 4. A bill of law? He didn't hurt any of them. Not to mention that today the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being called upon today by those who not only worked against its adoption in 2006, which are essentially against the concept of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia as a comprehensive and united state. Today, you have MPs who are calling for the Constitution, and in fact support a policy that says Kosovo and Metohija are not an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. It's top political hypocrisy. What I've heard for the first time, I really don't know if it takes top-notch ignorance or top-notch political adventure, to say that when it comes from a company that's mostly state-owned, it's a bottomless hole. This is a practice introduced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, and unfortunately it was not a practice of any previous government. So SNS and Aleksandar Vucic started a new economic policy to earn profits from public enterprises and profits generated by companies that are mostly state-owned and of course go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Now it needs to be top-notch politically uneducated, so say when something is paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget, then it is a bottomless payment, and from that budget, the Republic of Serbia is financed both by health and education and pregnant women and children and social work centres, etc., and for all those categories of persons, former regime MPs from day to day shed crocodile tears that are allegedly denied by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Now that we're paying money in the Republic of Serbia's budget, there's a spokesman for the former regime and he says -- it's a waste of money, it's a bottomless payment. In what civilized, European and non-European state can you say in the assembly when money is paid into the country's budget, that it's a bottomless hole? What was a bottomless hole, and you, Mr Sertic, like me, like all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, know very well, what was a bottomless hole? The bottomless hole was, for example. "Vojvodine Development Bank", a bottomless hole was Agrobanka, a bottomless hole was the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia by 2012 and today is a bottomless hole of the AP Vojvodina Fund. Those were bottomless holes. Those who teach you lessons today, and these are the wrong legal and financial lessons, and they say that paying money into Serbia's budget is a waste of money and a bottomless payment, they have ruined the entire financial system of this country and the recovery of that financial system is now up to you and your colleagues from the government. The Serbian Progressive Party asks them -- why they ruined the Vojvodina Development Bank, why they destroyed the Vojvodina Development Fund, the Republic of Serbia's Development Fund, why they ruined everything they got their hands on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19878	Mr. Martinovic, just tell me what the "Development Bank" has to do with this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19879	And what difference does it make? Because this bill, Mr. Becic, is one in a series of laws that we have to adopt to correct the disastrous economic and financial policy that has been led in Serbia from 2000 to 2012, and unfortunately, today, it is being led in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Ask the MPs of the former regime what they do in the duchy municipalities where they lose power? Here, the other day they lost power in the Irig municipality. And what do they do with DS officials or the Social Democratic Party, what do they call it, when they lose power in a municipality? Where do they transfer them? In the stored Capital Investment Fund AP Vojvodina. Since they are narrowing down the number of municipalities in Vojvodina where they are in power, that Ada Kale is getting smaller and smaller, now Ada Kale is called the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. They lectured us on this, when we adopted the Republic of Serbia's budget, as we reportedly try thousands of advances through specialized services to host somewhere. I'm telling them now, and you tell them it's not true -- whatever president of the municipality that is in the DS or in any party of the former regime, it stops being because he lost power, where do you find the arrest? The Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. Because you don't know where these people are anymore, what to do with them. What were you doing, giving us financial lessons about paying in the budget being a waste of money and bottomless holes? Who made the tycoon type Dusan Borovic? Here, I'm looking at Dusan Petrovic. Who made the problem with the company "Intercop" from Capca? Who told these people – go to the Vojvodina Development Bank, take 20, 50, take 100 million dinars or euros, buy trucks, pave, do what you want, and then they pick up those people at one point. When the system broke, when it turned out that this system was no longer sustainable, those people were in trouble. Both Dusan Borovica and Mr Rade from "Intercop" can thank you, gentlemen, from the DS, from the SDS or whatever your name is, for the situation they are in right now. You first made it possible for these people to get rich, and then you put your hand in their pocket and now you pretend that you're not to blame for anything. When I listen to the MPs of the former regime, sometimes I get the impression that these people were never in power. Who ruled Serbia for 12 years? Who's ruling the AP Vojvodina today? Who? The citizens of the Republic of Serbia know that. But you are now pretending to be ignorant. We have never been in power. We have never done anything wrong. A huge burden has been put on the back of this government of the Republic of Serbia. With this law and a series of other laws that we're going to have to adopt in the next period, we're correcting the bad things that have been done in this country for 10, 12, 14 years. Do you support it or not? That is absolutely not the case with the Serbian Progressive Party. The citizens said all they had to say about your policy in 2014. Citizens said about your policy in every local election held anywhere in Serbia -- we will not party to the former regime. And that's quite clear. Aleksandar Vucic was absolutely right when he said -- he will perhaps come one day when Serbian citizens will say he will not show up to the Serbian Progressive Party either, but will have to show up to a third on Serbia's political scene to lead Serbia forward, to give Serbia some new enthusiasm, some new spirit. You cannot systematically ruin this country by 12 or 14, here we are now entering the 15th year of your government in the AP Vojvodina. So, the law is good, the law is reform, the law is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS will have a calm and clear conscience for this law to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19880	Mr. Martinovic, I have listened to you all the way but I am not convinced that this law or any other law could correct what was done to the "Vojvodine Development Bank", except perhaps the Criminal Law. Thank you. Since we've got a lot of reports, who's answering the Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic, she answered first.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19881	Thank you, Chairman. Article 27, Article 106 and Article 108 have been broken. Your obligation was not only to once, but as many times as it takes for a MP who knowingly, deliberately and playing with the communication of the cause of the incident, his presentation on the amendment is used for anything. If we establish criteria for the chairman to choose whom he will be allowed to humiliate the National Assembly and to rejoice with him to violate every member of the Rules of Procedure who obliges him to act, I have no objection. But each time you will receive a comment that the Assembly deserves, not those who demean the National Assembly by their choice, choosing what it is to be the subject of the agenda, or discussion by amendment, and what it is not. The second violation is that you allow yourself to comment on the positions of the chairman. If you let it go, I understand it, it's not easy, it's stories, it's Paul, Saul and everything else, that MPs have different freedoms, that some people can say insolence and other insults and others can't say that the government is incompetent, it's all within parliamentary practice. You must not allow yourself to qualify as chairman of anything and anyone unless you apply the Rules of Procedure. In the case of a previous speaker, you have neither applied the Rules of Procedure, and you have dared to have a valuable view of some exposure. This may happen if you join us, the other MPs, ask for your word and you have the hope that it will be the chairman who will allow you to talk about anything, not the amendment that is on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19882	I thank Mrs. Komic for warning the MP that part of the exhibition has nothing to do with the amendment. He told me at that point that he thought this law would correct, not to repeat the words he said. At the end of his presentation, I said that he did not convince me that this law or any other law could correct what was done at the "Vojvodine Development Bank". So that's not a comment, except for the answer to Mr Martinovic's findings, to my warning that he is not talking about the amendment. Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19883	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, you have violated the article. 106th and 107th. Not only have you allowed the previous speaker to talk for almost 20 minutes about various things that are not the subject of the agenda, but you're giving yourself the right...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19884	Mr. Sutanovac, she can't go to 106. She's invited herself to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19885	And I said 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19886	You can go to 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19887	You can, when you add it to 213 if you feel better. Listen to me when I'm talking. I listen to you very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19888	I have only the duty to, as chairman, say that you cannot appeal to Article 106, because Mrs. Comic has previously called on that member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19889	Give me back my time. It'd be my turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19890	Go on, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19891	I will continue, but it's been 50 seconds in our dialogue, which is not interesting for this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19892	I'll count on it. Go on, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19893	Thank you. So, Mr. Chairman, you are not qualified, nor invited to comment in any way on whether something here will be by law regarding the one we're discussing today or on the Criminal Law. The way you said it alludes that someone was doing something wrong, something that was not in accordance with Criminal Law. If you have any information, you are obliged to report it, if you do not, you cannot dissuade either the MPs or the Assembly or the citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission. On the other hand, you've allowed us to listen for 20 minutes to the tiara about what a black hole is in Serbia. Serbia's largest black hole is currently the government of the Republic of Serbia. Tamnava is a small hole compared to what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its prime minister are. Unfortunately, it's obvious you can't see, because you're only dealing with what the opposition is saying and you're brave enough to make warnings to only the opposition. You are obliged to respect every MP in the Serbian Parliament equally. Whether there are 6% of the vote, 66% of the vote must have the same relationship, if you are already sitting in that seat. If you can't, you can't, you're not trained, you're having trouble chairing the session, don't do it. I understand, and if you have a problem, I know where the problem might arise, but I'm asking you not to make us talk about your problem, because it's not the topic of the session, and we can talk about it, because it's allowed here to talk about everything and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19894	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Time's up. I know that you have a problem and that you always react to this problem when a criminal law is mentioned here and (Dear Sutanovac, from the place:... The problem is that you are a military invalid, Mr. Becic, with 20% damage... Don't throw Mr. Schutanovac out of place. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I will tell you quietly.) Don't throw it away. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Therefore, the way you run the session. Mr. Sutanovac, I'll have to warn you if you continue. I have no doubt that you are brave enough to do so. I'm whispering now. I don't know how you hear me. I can't let you continue because I'm going to have to warn you. If I'm your problem, I can't help you. Dear Shutanovac, from the scene: Here you are, after the injury of Mr. Alexander Jerkov's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19895	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Now you're from the moment I called until I got my word you did a few more injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but I'm gonna get back to you about the one I originally wanted to advertise. Article 100. - President of the National Assembly, vice president of the same time as chair of the National Assembly, if he wishes to participate in the search, he leaves the presidency to one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly. If Mr...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19896	Ms. Jerkov, this has already been advertised by Mrs. Komic and Mr. Sutanovac, I will not allow you to go any further. Do you want the Assembly to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19897	The 100th was advertised, Mr. Becic? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19898	Does anyone by amendment want to talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19899	You're telling me that Mrs. Comic and Mr. Sutanovac advertised article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19900	Here you go. Mr. Dusan Petrovic, replica. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: what are you doing, Mr. Becic? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19901	First of all, for some strange reason...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19902	Replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19903	... Mr. Martinovic mentioned me. What he said is completely incorrect and has nothing to do with reality. I'm not surprised. Such a manner can be seen in various tabloids in Serbia. Some of those newspapers I'm judging. I have no idea if I'm going to stand trial here with my fellow MPs. There's nothing to do with reality, and there's nothing to do with life. I've been listening to that for two and a half years. It's not a subject. The topic is the way the debate is being held in parliament. This is what we will see in the afternoon, what is happening with the different topics in Serbia, because this is how debate is being held in parliament and because this is how debate is being held on important political and public issues in society. It is a way that primarily generates the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and you here who chair these sessions. Because the manners you have don't allow serious talk about important things. About this law, Mr. Sertic has been sitting here for two days in parliament. Because every critical tone, you do not respond to it with any excessive debate, but with the untruths, the swearing, the demeaning, the qualifications that are totally unacceptable in one of these parliaments and in one of these places. That's why there are mistakes that we all pay for together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19904	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19905	So it's true what Mr. Martinovic said. I've been listening to lies for two and a half years. It doesn't serve anything but the simplicity of propaganda that doesn't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19906	Thank you, Mr. Petrovic. Is there anyone else on the line? Mr. Stefanovic to mention DS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19907	It has been mentioned twice in a very negative context. The persuasive context, the fake, whatever you want. I'm used to hearing it from some MPs on the other side. However, in the hope that we will return to the agenda, which is as you can see, the debate on the agenda and the conversation with Minister Sertic, who I think was within the framework of a civilized, argumentated one has completely slipped out, let me say, out of the tracks, to express myself in the spirit of new changes in the "railway" only because one of the MPs on the other hand, Mr. Petko again abused the Rules of Procedure and set out to speak at least what, what he does. I advise him to go to the D.A. to get a job as an intern. He doesn't need pay. There's five of them. So let him go there. Let him volunteer because he deals with investigative activities in the Serbian Parliament and mentions Ada Kale again. I've already asked you once, Mr. Becic, yourself, several times, not once, at least two, three times, not to allow such tasteless historical parallels. Those who were killed on Ade Calais were odors and criminals who were...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19908	Mr. Stefanovic, I haven't heard that word. I apologize if it's spoken.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19909	... Uprisings killed. The parallel with Ada Kale is very awkward. Thank you, but please listen to the MPs on both sides. Please. Ada Kale is an inappropriate parallel. Someone may think they are calling for a violent end to the Serbian opposition. The violent end, because we are the spirits, and they are the liberators of the uprisings, the Karajords? Neither are they the rebels, nor are the Karadjordjevs, but the consumers, the destroyers of Serbia, are the destroyers of the Serbian budget. They are, but it's not the same as the breath. Do you know why? Not only from an ethical, ethnic, historical context, but because a political opponent is not spoken through the prism of violence...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19910	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19911	... through the historical parallel. I have to say, for the end, it is, it narrows down space like in Irig. Tell me, how did that happen? Did the SNS have a councilman in Irig? She didn't have any, and today you have authority. That's what you need to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19912	Is anyone else picking up on the replica? Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19913	Yeah. It's SDS. But I really want to get this one back...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19914	Mr. Veselinović, you got the replica because it mentioned your last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19915	Last name and party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19916	You said DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19917	The Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19918	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19919	So, I would really like to say, what counterpart Stefanovic said, that we are discussing the law and unfortunately colleagues from the opposite side of the SNS are looking to challenge the incident in order to discuss some other things. Why? Because their laws are bad. Because they're retroactive. Because they are unequal to the citizens and to those to whom they should be applied. Because they are in charge and in debt through this set of laws and pass the two-year term to eight billion euros. Because they made the biggest hole in the budget. I thought Mr. Martinovic would really talk about the legal aspects and disprove some of my thesis. He was talking about the law and the sources of the law. I think it's a lesson – sources of law. Rights sources can be material and formal. Material sources of rights are social circumstances from which the right arises, and what are the social circumstances of this law? Social circumstances that ministers forgot to apply the law. Social circumstances that there was a big hole in the budget so that you wanted to sell Telecom and if you said it was a sale of family gold, etc. Social circumstances in which you don't even know what you're going to do and these are social circumstances and these are the material conditions from which this law came into being.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19920	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. Now we're going to a new circle of replicas. They're told by Dr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19921	As far as the odors were concerned, they were odors, and that they were odors, it is seen by the state of Serbia in 2012, or the state of the AP Vojvodina in 2014. To make it perfectly clear to the citizens what the strategy of the former regime is - talk about everything, just don't talk about what we did. Here, I'm looking into your eyes now, Mr. Petrovic and you from the DS, and as you already call yourself, tell me – could anyone have gotten the money, i.e. A loan from the Vojvodine Development Bank, and that the DS summit did not approve, and did anyone get the money without you having politically blessed it? He didn't get anybody. I'm looking at you, Mr. Petrovic. You were in the DS at the time. You were Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19922	Please, Mr. Martinovic, don't speak to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19923	Now, Mr. Becic, since I cannot personally address the MPs of the former regime under the Rules of Procedure, here, now I ask you to ask them – is it true that Mrs. Biljana Jovanovic was the one who approved the loans at the Vojvodine Development Bank and was at the same time a member of the Supervisory Board of Tesla Bank in Zagreb? Both banks failed and both banks fell on the back of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Is that right? That's right. But don't talk about it. Come on, let's call on some imaginary sites, let's talk about how this government is no good, just don't talk about what the real social circumstances have led to, as says counterpart Vesenovic, Serbia in this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19924	I thank Mr. Martinovic. Mr. Petrovic, before you a replica has Mr. Babic's mention of SNS by Mr. Veselinovic. Here you go, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19925	It is scandalous, Mr. Chairman, that someone here is accusing the SNS of causing incidents, it is scandalous when someone on the side of this parliament, and when qualifications are coming to you primarily, Mr. Chairman, and then to all the MPs, in this way and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when the qualifications of garbage, cattle, scum, and that is democratic. You know, it's wonderful, it's great, it's not incidents. These are just the kind of real democratic talks, the right democratic fluid to be respected and cherished in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When someone patiently listens to the insults here, nothing caused, and we've seen a few days ago how it hurts when the incompetent, incompetent and unsupervised comes back like a boomerang, as if a man was stabbed with a cane jumps out of a chair. Here we saw a different system of values, we saw a system of values where the former regime of one doctor of science, a professor of classification in the ranks of trainees. It is scandalous when a doctor of science and you send such a message to citizens of the Republic of Serbia that a doctor of science like Aleksandar Martinovic is offered a traineeship post in the NSRS. Not what needs to be offered, not for a doctor, science is a place among interns. It's shocking and scandalous that someone is threatening violence and that's exactly who called for violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19926	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19927	I do not call for violence, I never thought that violence was a solution, but whoever called for both the Ukrainian and Bosnian scenarios if his political party did not come to power now, my God, is disgusted by the violence that at no time, in no word of Mr. Martinovic, could be seen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19928	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is by MP Dusan Petrovic, a replica. Please return to the amendment, so Mr. Ivan Jovanovic can proceed according to the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19929	Thank you very much. One more time to say what I said last time. I can't find any adequate words at all, here's what my colleague here with whom I've been leading the replicas has just said, I don't need any better or more solid evidence, or any whiter things, I haven't heard in my life about that person he mentioned. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Which one? He said a name, I don't know, about a lady who, as I understand it, worked or worked at the Development Bank. I understand that I have to answer to tabloids like this, and I have to sue them, but, Mr. Chairman, this is at your address and at the address of your fellow vice presidents and president of the National Assembly, huge and huge consequences and damages we have because we don't have a good debate in this House, because in this way, we're running from the debate. We'll have one big debate this afternoon because we didn't have a good debate when another law was here on the agenda. As we have a good debate, two days sits Minister Sertic here to answer all the questions that the opposition is, it is our job, and it is our political role, both in politics and in parliament and in society, it sets out, because together we should probably come to this, to shed light on all the things that can be controversial both in the political and in the general public. I appeal here once again that we do not spend on primitive propaganda the precious time of this House, but that we are essentially discussing the things that are here on the agenda. We won't agree, but we can get out of these discussions, so we'll all have very clear answers to the very clear questions we're asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19930	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, you can only get the word after the amendment, you are not mentioned, but after Mr. Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19931	First Ivan Jovanovic is on the list, I apologize, a colleague made a mistake. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19932	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the solution proposed by colleagues from the SDS Group is more elegant, less disturbingly related to the market within the shareholder society itself, and I think that the message that the state of Serbia and its economy have received is a reduction of the rating of the renowned agency Fitch, a permanent downturn, and bringing Serbia into line with some African countries is sufficient for our government as well. I think that in the time ahead, as the government has announced, contrary to what the ruling party said while it was in opposition, the privatisation of Telecom, this is not in favor. We're not in favor of financial indicators in Telecom. Earlier, a ruling majority counterpart spoke about the company's great successes compared to the period in 2012. So here's the 2013 Telecom financial balance. It is clear that -- permanent assets are reduced by six billion, craft property is reduced by 10 billion, business revenues are very significant, three billion lower than in 2012, sales revenues are lower than three billion, business expenditures are increased by a billion and a half, cash flow is reduced by 2.2 billion. Where's the profit trick hiding? The financial expenditure is, of course, lower because the purchase of shares from OTE was made in 2012 and this is the story with this huge profit growth. I don't think it will matter to any company that participates in the privatisation of Telecom. These indicators will be important to them, an important inflow of cash, which is twice as small. It will be indicators that will be valued, and we can talk about various data here, which are not accurate or are partially accurate, to defend some policies, but I don't think it will have any real impact on the sale of Telecom. I think you should stick to your policy as you declared opposition, that no one should sell family silver, it's Telecom. That's when you said you'd file criminal charges. I think you should stay in that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19933	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19934	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, above all, are not correct that the credit rating of the Republic of Serbia has been reduced, it has been increased and we have talked about it many times and there are countless evidences about it. As for the political concept at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at no point did I...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19935	Ambassador, I deeply apologize to you, but you still haven't spoken for the amendment, and you haven't asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19936	I did. I was looking for a replica while Mr. Igor Becic was running the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19937	You were wrong, here, the vice president tells me, so that's why he didn't give you the replica. What the vice president did is true for me, no matter what the change. You had no right to a replica because you didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19938	I was also mentioned by my colleague Dusan Petrovic and other MPs. They told me I was primitive, that I was ignorant and so forth.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19939	You understand me, you're a lawyer, I can't change the decision of the vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19940	I don't mind myself. So, I accept that I'm primitive and I'm ignorant, it's all right, I'm just trying to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19941	You don't have to accept that. We're talking about a whole other thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19942	I'm just trying to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19943	Please as president and as current chairman, you're a lawyer, I can't change the decision of the chairman before me who said you don't have the right to a replica. I don't have the capacity to correct the presidency of anyone right now. If you want to talk about the amendment, go ahead, use your time. Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19944	Thank you. By amendment. Regardless of what we have seen, the practice “Quod facet bovi non facet ivi”, I will still talk about the amendment. The amendment of colleagues Marko Đurišić, Janko Veseinović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snežana Malović, Branke Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Aleksandra Senić, Blago Bradic and Ivan Karic reads that in Article 1 paragraph 1 the words "more than 20%" are replaced by the words "more than 30%", and refers to the proposed member who says – Exceptionally in the case of a non-public action society, in the sense of a law governing the capital market, the total value of acquired own actions of society, which can be maintained after the expiry of the term laid down in Article 4, cannot be greater than 20% of the basic capital. He intends to place a colleague above 30% is reasonable and legitimate just as much as the proposed percentage in the text of the law. It was supposed to be the subject of our conversation, and it was supposed to give the minister a chance and space to explain why 20% is better than 30%. To speak about the subject of the agenda is, of course, our obligation and each of us speaks of himself when this obligation is respected or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19945	Thank you. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićevic, joint MPs Borislav Stevanović, Ivan Jovanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Šutanovic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaže Bradić and Ivan Karić. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19946	I have to admit, now is the question of whether our amendment makes sense. We have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law amending Article 288 of the existing Act of Article 2 and this morning, before the start of the session, we received an amendment to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, which amends the whole of Article 2 and now provides for Article 2 to amend Article 288 in point 4. I am now interested in this reform law, as we have heard, in which nothing should change, as some colleagues from the ruling coalition have said, what happened since Thursday when we discussed this law that has four members, and two essentially change the existing law? So now you've changed one of those two members completely. The position of Article 288 shall no longer be changed, but the position of Article 2 shall be amended. You explain to me, you missed 50%. Fifty percent missed, and now you're telling me this is reform law, and you missed by half. Please, Minister, explain to us, we have proposed to delete a member of the law that envisioned the amendment of Article 288(2) and you have given us an explanation, but now it is absolutely pointless, because this article is no longer so. You're changing something else now. So what can we possibly discuss? What kind of reform is that, and what vision is that? Does this government see beyond one day if in a law that has essentially two changes one change between a principle debate and a debate in particular? Please explain to us what this is all about and why you changed half of this law we're discussing today?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19947	The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19948	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Sertic, guests from the Ministry and respected National Assembly Presidents Mrs Gojkovic, and Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 2. The bill that we propose to contain Article 2, Mr Sertic, is deleted. You are here to explain why the amendment is rejected – this bill provides for the adjudication of negative effects, and in this sense you are not satisfied with our explanation of the amendment to delete it. I believe, Mr. Setic, that this adjudication of the negative effects must not take place in the way that is now being applied by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Sertich, we read the laws here all the time. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I suggest that you remind yourself of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 99 fine writing – the National Assembly adopts laws and other general acts under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen, today, if we adopt this law, we will not pass the right law, we will adopt what we call "ex individualis", because there is no other coin to describe what is contained in this bill, Mr Sertic. What are you doing here, and why do we find that inadmissible? You, in my court, want a bookkeeping matter in our legislative body, in our representative body, to present it as top legislative work. Dear gentlemen, Mr. Sertic, Mr. Babić and the other gentlemen, so this accounting matter, which is responsible for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, cannot be transferred and presented as a top-notch legislative activity. That is why we believe it is important to delete Article 2 of this bill, Mr Sertic and Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19949	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19950	Thank you. With my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the amendment and the amendment of the law amending Article 288(2). According to the proposed text, as submitted by the Government, the member would read: "In the case of a public shareholder society, in the case of estrangement of its own actions, the company is obliged to allow persons who are shareholders of the company on the day of the decision under Article 1 of this Article to have the right to intercept the purchase. “ An explanation of why we feel that this article should be deleted as well as the first one has already been given several times. In short, we do not consider it justified to leave without comment the extortion in which this law is passed, as we believe that the subject of the status of actions in Telecom and any future privatisation of Telecom needs to be opened dialogue. But here we now have proof of superficiality. Seeing the amendment tabled by the Committee on Rule 288 4 remains a question for me for the Minister – can we at this time argue that if the Government accepts the amendment of the Committee and you accept on behalf of the Government, or does the Assembly declare itself, does the proposed amendment that you have claimed is excellent, or does this proposed amendment delete itself? If that change remains, then it's proof of the surface that you haven't seen attitude 4. If there is no change left, how can you be entitled to the same proposal that we tabled from the opposition and I claim it would be a shame to delete that member? The damage is common whenever there is a surface, and whenever there is a stubbornness to defend only a position at all costs – we are right, you are wrong, because there is no such situation. There's always someone with some argument some part of it is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19951	Thank you. Will you take the time? (No) The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19952	Just to clarify this question, since it's obviously a little confusing, but I think it's going right in the direction of communication and agreement, that we can talk together about how to customize the laws. Last time around this Article, there was a lot of proposals from MPs in terms of legal adoption and legal-technical regulation of the law itself, where a question about the rights of certain companies was presented that they did not allow the right to interfere with the purchase and that we had a story about whether the company should or not, there was a proposal to define in that article that only society could not give a right, but that it was defined. By considering how to make this thing the best and most qualitative, we have come to the conclusion that paragraph 2 should be removed to insert this part in which it is clearly and precisely defined that only the three-quarters majority of closed public societies can limit the right to buy shares. So through this definition, the legal one has now completely eliminated any risk of interpreting anyone tomorrow, because we had in the previous law, we've already defined the Business Society Act, we need to change a lot of elements. We've had situations where the right to prevent shopping has been interpreted in different ways and there have been certain abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19953	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19954	Thank you. I'm a short-lived member of the Parliament Group. Our dialogue here is proof that the amendment: "Deletes" is excellent. So I'd like to put in the following discussions, when there's going to be more difficult topics than this, reading the text and what's written above who wrote it. It's a good thing we got along. I'm staying against this motion to amend the law. I think it will cause damage, but I also like to say what happened well to the dialogue, no matter what the general noise is about when we submit amendments that we consider unnecessary members, we don't understand what we're working on. We understand how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19955	Thank you. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The president accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I see that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19956	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow Members, today we have had opportunities on the Committee, and in order to correct certain and define practically all activities that have so far been fully unexplained in the legal work, when we talk about closed and open action societies. The attempt was for this joint amendment, in co-operation with Minister Sertic, to really define some of the things that are related to closed stock companies, to restrict the right, so, buying action, and we heard what he said. The formal-legal amendment reads - Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Business Society Act is amended and amended. In Article 288, paragraph 4 is amended and reads as follows: ‘Extremely in cases of non-public companies, the right to prevent purchases may be restricted or abolished only by a decision of the assembly which was made by a three-quarter majority of the shareholders present’. In Article 288, the words ‘Article 277’ shall be replaced by the words ‘Article 288. 277 and 278.’. So, basically this amendment, you have in mind, it makes the right call for this member and regulates the matter that shareholders have the right to prevent buying when alienating their own actions of a stock company. Article 4 of this article is just governing issues in which the right to restrict or abolish the right to buy, so that this amendment only applies to the precise invitation of this member because it is obvious that the proposing's intention to limit or abolish the right to prevent purchases is introduced as one of the opportunities for action companies which have so far been unclear. Obviously, the problems that have been encountered, when we talk about the laws on companies, and what happens not only about Telekom but other companies, there are problems that have never been defined so far. This way, the Committee, in co-operation with the Ministry and Mr Sertic, who accepted this amendment from the Committee on the Committee, practically solves these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19957	Thank you. To Article 3. The amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Ivan Jovanovic, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Šutanovic and joint MPs Marko Djurisić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19958	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Sertic, the honored guests of the Ministry and, of course, the esteemed presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic. I noticed, Mr. Sertić, that you are not responding to these additional explanations for our amendments "is deleted". On this occasion, and in relation to the amendment to Article 3 of your bill, I would like to add here two things as possible arguments to the adoption of our amendment, Mr Sertic, since you de facto agreed to delete something in the previous amendment, as I understand it, so there is a chance. Two things, Mr. Sertice. Please do not be afraid of the possibility to adopt any amendment and MPs of the New Party. It is true that we have submitted a large number of amendments. Last year, Mr. Sertic, I only filed 841 amendments. But, Mr. Sertic, of those 841 amendments, 19 were adopted. Please consider the possibility of this being the 20th Amendment of an opposition MP, e.g. Mine, Mr. Minister. The other thing, listening carefully to this debate here today, I noticed, Mr Sertic, that there is one misunderstanding between you, as a proponent, and a party representative whose MPs are announcing a vote to adopt this bill. For example, you say, Mr. Sertic, today, here, on this amendment: "We boldly say - yes, this concerns Telekom Srbija", and Mr. Zoran Babic, I followed it closely all day, Mr. Babic says, "And where does Telekom say? “ Be careful, if Mr. Sertic says, “Yes, it is Telekom” and Mr. Babic says, “Who says Telekom”, so wait, what does the majority here vote for, Mr. Sertic? What do they support here, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19959	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19960	Replica, Madam President. I believe that behind the increation that some of the members are being deleted, without further understanding, without further explanation, they are now going with individual and personal references. The Serbian Progressive Party is pleased and has proposed and voted for Mr Sertic as economy minister, a hot topic in the government of the Republic of Serbia, a hot topic in our society at all, due to the devastated economy, on which the former regime has worked so hard. There is no misunderstanding between us, especially not about: "And where does Telekom Serbia say? “ Of course this law applies to Telekom Srbija, but not only to Telekom Srbija. In order for you to talk about something, that it's just and exclusively, you have to write in one of the four members of the law, as it doesn't say about retroactiveness. It doesn't say. But I believe that, when the amendments are written, "It's deleted," with the same copy-paisyst explanation, that you haven't even read the law. This law applies to everything, also applies to Telekom Srbija, but I think that more, as an amendmentr, you have had your ears ripped off by business data made by Telekom Srbija and by all the successes of Telekom Srbija, not by such a law. As for the relationship between Mr Sertic and the SNS parliamentary group and myself personally, thank you for asking, they are excellent.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19961	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19962	The reasons for the law and the reasons why this amendment, which we asked for Article 3 to be deleted, clearly shows that this law introduces retroactiveness, i.e. a return fact. This assembly is going to believe in it and make it clear, because it's the motionary's intention. It says in the light of the law, and now I'm going to read you an explanation for not accepting the amendment. "The amendment is not accepted, given that in the specific case "Telecom Serbia", a.d., retroactive application is not available, given that the legal deadline for repealing actions in the case of "Telecoma" a.d., did not expire, in brackets, expires on January 25th, so that the insistence on the issue of retroactivity has no practical consequences." But an explanation of the bill introduced out of caution, in case there was a possible non-public stock company that had acquired its own actions in the past, and in the meantime did not cancel them within the legal time limit. So this law introduces a return fact. It's in the explanation, it's in the explanation for the rejection of the amendment. You are speaking in refusal to our amendment, you are talking about "Telecom" in our explanation for this amendment we do not mention "Telecom" anywhere. I don't know why the Ministers put the "Telecom" story in this explanation when it doesn't stand anywhere. So it's you who keep talking about Telecom, we're talking about principled things. You can read the explanation for our amendment that is legal and talks about what conditions are needed to bring to Article 197 of the Constitution that the Assembly declares that there is a general interest, in order to introduce a return fact. You're the one talking about Telecom, we're talking about principled things. There is no explanation for the proposals for our amendments for "Telecom". That's what you do, because you know why you passed this law in this procedure, according to this procedure to adopt it by 25. You know that, and I don't know if you know what other non-public stock companies are dealing with. How long before you know how many non-public stock companies in Serbia are there and to see if in any case this exists and whether there should then be a Article 3. We believe that there should be no Article 3 of this Act, so we have proposed this amendment, to delete Article 3, and you can tell us what some potentially unpublic action societies will be referred to retroactively. Tell me now that this assembly in the voting day will not be able to declare whether there is a general interest so that this member of the law can be adopted. Tell me he won't, and we'll see what happens in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19963	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the former regime keep asking us some questions, and when we answer, they act like they haven't heard the answer. Here, for example, since Mr Djurisic asked the question, which are still non-public companies owned by the majority state. Well, you gentlemen of the former regime must have heard of such a company, such as Galenika, which has been systematically ruined to the point that one of the best pharmaceutical companies in Europe has now been led to a beggar stick. What I don't understand about the former regime's MPs is the following thing – you say one law is not reformal because it comes from a government that you don't support and that you think is bad. Well, then in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that you have brought, the resolution committee proposes an amendment to one of the members of the bill and then you say – so how could the Committee do so and why? He did it because it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has assessed that the amendment is good and that it essentially corrects the text of the bill. Go ahead, Mr. Djurishic, keep waving your hands, throw it away, do it in the previous sessions, I don't have any problem with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19965	Please, I'll take care of it, it's just telling you that you're talking about Article 2 and I think you're talking about Article 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19966	I am talking about an amendment open to debate and I am trying to explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not to the MPs of the former regime, because it is obviously not worth explaining to them. So I explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that both the resolution board and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have done well. The Committee because it proposed an amendment and the Government because it accepted the amendment. There's nothing controversial about it. But what I want to say is this bill as well as all the other laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are passed for one single reason, because unfortunately, I am not looking forward to it, but unfortunately the Republic of Serbia is an economically destructive state. We're making the state over and over again. We make it from the beginning and when it comes to its economy, when it comes to its financial system. It's Sisif's job. Taking over power after 12 or 14 years of a robbery, criminal politics is a hell of a job. Unfortunately, this job must now be done by this government. You of the former regime now have to agree, because you speak in principle or you talk about "Telecom of Serbia". Well, on Friday and today, I don't know, I didn't count...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19967	Ambassador, please return to the subject and the amendment to Article 3. ‘repeal’.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19968	So it's a genius formulation. Indeed, I'm taking off my hat to whoever came up with such a genius formula to be deleted and to write thousands of such amendments, but what I'm saying is, I didn't run the statistics, but I think the MPs of the former regime have mentioned at least one 200 times Alexander Vukic, a statement from 2010. Some mentioned jewelry, some silver, some gold, ask God what and then say – and why are you talking about "Telecom Serbia". And in fact, they're not talking about anything else, they're talking about Telecom Serbia. When my colleague Zoran Babic says that the government of the Republic of Serbia, that the management of Telecom Serbia has succeeded in two years to do what they failed to do in 12 years, then they say -- well, don't talk about it, it's easy, you did it one way or the other. If it's so simple that in this way and in this percentage, the Telecom business is improved, then I ask you as one primitive, uneducated man who has no idea about anything - excuse me if it's so simple, and why didn't you do it? Why Telecom was not successful in 2008 and 2010, it was as successful as it is now. You statements by Alexander Vukic, you systematically draw the statements of the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia from the context. It is not the same situation in "Telecom Serbia" in 2010 and today in January 2015. That's what you keep trying to keep quiet. That's what SNS insists on. That the situation in Telecom was much better than it was when you were in power. And I said in the debate under the previous amendments, there really should be an extreme political adventurer or a really big political ignorant and say – it's wrong when money comes from public enterprises or money from the profits of enterprises that are mostly state-owned is being paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia because it's a bottomless hole. Well, in which state in the white world is the budget of a bottomless hole? You cry, you whine, you support educators, mothers with children, no children...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19969	Ambassador, we really need to get back to the amendment, and now the subject is spreading, and I need to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19970	All right, I'm done. Because the government of the Republic of Serbia is allegedly denying some budget rights. Now that we're paying the money into the budget, you say - it's a bottomless hole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19971	The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19972	I thank and thank you for the intervention of the President of the National Assembly since we do not doubt that we all apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which oblige us to talk about the subject of the agenda, and the topic of the agenda is the search in particular to Article 3 which is subject to an amendment which deletes Article 3 of the draft law. There was a confusion because the discussion was conducted as if the Committee had submitted an amendment to this article as well. I am pleased that the president has removed such a suspicion that he has disrespect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and that there is no amendment to the Committee. However, once the Committee has submitted an amendment to the previous article which deleted the basic text of the bill, the need now arises to explain the fact that Article 3 remains in the proposed text for now, which is that the provision of Article 2 of this Law applies to its own actions acquired before the entry into force of this law. Now, after a practical, accepted amendment to delete Article 2 and after the amendment has been submitted by the Committee, that member will probably read this way – especially in the case of a non-public company, the right to prevent purchases may be restricted or abolished only by a decision of the Assembly, which was made by a three-quarter majority of the shareholders present and in the position of the 6th words of Article 277 is replaced by Articles 277 and 278. There's no word here about your actions. So Article 3 makes sense if it remains the previous Article 2 which is deleted. This deleted member reads – in the case of a public shareholder society in the absence of its own actions, so Article 3 is the consequence, if I read correctly, and I ask you to, or at the time of the vote, if the need to correct itself is determined, to set a delay, or to give us an answer now to which actions you own when there is no own action in the amended Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19973	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19974	By amendment, Madam President. When we get a confirmation of the reform policy carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia from international institutions, it is something that really suits and commits to even more dedicated work and to the application of the reform policy. When support for reform policy comes from the ruling part of parliament, it has a certain power because we voted for this government, we voted for the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, as defined and voted in Serbia's majority. However, one special weight and special value is when the former regime recognises and accepts the reform course that the Government of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, leads this country, and this reform course and confirmation and recognition by the former regime's amendment promoter stands in the first sentence of the reasons for the proposed changes and additions of the state's laws to the reform direction. The government of the Republic of Serbia was formed in March 2014. Here, nine, ten months as the government works and in the opinion of the former DS regime, here it is now that it has strayed from the reform course if it adopts such a law, which means that according to the DS, it has been on the reform course so far. Well, gentlemen of the amendment, if it was on the reform course, and you've put it here in a clear statement that it is on the reform course, why did you vote for all those against all the laws that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed? Why did you vote against the Law on Labour and the Law on Privatisation, and against the Law on Vulnerabilities, against sets of media laws and against all those laws that he has promised in the exposé, and we here together both the Government and Parliament and have fulfilled and voted, and they were reformable, because you here clearly say only after nine, ten months of this law will eventually deviate from the reform course? Does this mean that you are not in favour of reform, because you did not vote against it, or did you not then see that it is as reformal as you do not see it and now that this law is also reformal? Identify yourselves once. Are you in favour of reform or are you against reform? Are you to improve the lives of our citizens or are you against it? Identify yourself once what reform is, which is not reform. For this recognition that the government has been here since the formation of 27 April 2014 until today on 19 January 2015 in the reform direction, and you have clearly acknowledged this in the first sentence because you have said the proposed changes and additions to the states are turning from the reform direction, which means that it has been in the reform direction so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19975	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. I'll give you my word for the amendment as well as my predecessor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19976	Only by amendment. I think anyone who applies the Rules of Procedure is talking about himself. I would really ask the Minister to clarify after the adoption of the amendment committee which has been deleted from the alienation of its own actions, what does Article 3 which we ask to be deleted apply to? What position of the bill? It's not just a language thing. It's a very important thing and it's not the first time that by reading carefully and knowing the procedure we're trying to help each law, whether it's in the basic text or the amendment and the supplement being in agreement with itself. I have expressed my understanding that you did not want to accept our amendment to which Article 2 is deleted, which was deleted by the board, but I now believe that this is the time, this debate and the time and place to remove any doubt as to what Article 3, is concerned, because, according to the proposal of the Committee and the amendment which has submitted to what the Committee has the right word, and there is no longer any action of its own. If Article 3 applies now to another member who is not subject to an amendment and an addition cannot do so under the Rules of Procedure, it is not a language matter because nothing in this law is not linguistic. On our part, it is already said that it is contrary to Directive 30/212, which can be interpreted because we are a country that negotiates, that we can also have such provisions, only that means that we will change them again during the negotiations. Please, either you personally or your associates, before the end of the debate in particular, leave beyond any doubt what Article 3 refers to, which states that the provisions of Articles 1 and 2 of this Act apply also to their own actions acquired before the entry into force of this law because Article 2 does not apply to this, nor does Article 1. If it is necessary to say that a technical amendment of this Article 3 is to be made, so to say that it refers to Article 288, another position, then I ask you to do so together with the congregation service. They're hardworking people who know how to do it. If not, yes, then, that uninterrupted mind that in the voting day this provision must have a stalemate if there is a problem, as we will only see in the voting day whether we will vote on a return action or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19977	The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19978	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, I do not know if there was enough clarity when the Committee's amendment was practically formulated. It implies that in the case of non-public stock companies, the right to prevent purchases can be restricted or abolished by a decision of the Assembly, which was made by a three-quarter majority of the votes of the shareholders present. It wasn't about whether they were their own actions or any other type of action whether they were government or small shareholders themselves. Thus, it is introduced practically by Article 2. The way in which the congregation will make its decisions. Article 3 means that it is fully defined in the legislative proposal for its own action and I do not see at all the problem on which the proposing now practically uses it as one of the reasons for the amendment is deleted. I think it is quite clear why such a proposal and an amendment to the committee submitted by the minister, and I think for a reason this amendment has indeed been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19979	MP Gordana Komic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19980	I'm not asking the Assembly to accept the amendment, so there's no misunderstanding. I'm clearly saying what I'm looking for. I ask that the professional services of the Assembly or the Government, I leave it to those who are applicants, to clarify without any doubt what Article 3 is about now, why, as the chairman of the Committee said, in a member who has changed, it implies all actions, and now all of a sudden in Article 3 you mention your own actions. It is my opinion that he is a member of the amended Article 288(2), which you have deleted by a decision of the Committee. We've also asked for the removal of that member. I'm not saying I'm right, nor am I asking that my amendment be accepted. I read the law the way it is in front of me. This article shall make sense if it remains a member of the 2nd Committee which has already been deleted by decision of the Committee. The coincidence is that we too have asked for the removal of that member, it is irrelevant, it is good for dialogue, I repeat, but my efforts, which obviously cannot be made clear enough, nor is it in favor of accepting the amendment that I have submitted to other colleagues, nor is it slow to do with that amendment whatever you want. I'm trying to remove the damage that I see is possible, and if that's not understood, I'm going to remind you that today we're going to have another session where we didn't understand that we're asking for no harm done, so it won't be another one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19981	Thank you. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the necessary laws from the agenda of this session as soon as possible, as well as the need to pass the laws from the agenda of the new session, whose start is scheduled for 1600 hours. The 4th Amendment in the same text was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister Sertic, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, I think we should think a little bit more about erasing Article 4 of this bill. Mr Sertic was generally defended by silence today, which, Mr Sertic, is allowed, but then it does give us some hint of how you feel and how you feel about this situation where we are all together now, not just the government, now and the legislative body, our National Assembly. Dear gentlemen, I am not sure that the MPs who vote for the adoption of these members of this bill will know what they are voting for and when I say that there has been a misunderstanding between Mr Sertic and Mr Babic, I do not think at all about some relationship between the two men, I mean relations between what is executive power, so the Government as part of the executive authority, and what is the legislative body, or legislative authority. It seemed to me that if there was a collision, a conflict, a misunderstanding between a man who performs on behalf of an executive government, means a government and a man who performs here in part in the name of a legislative body, so the Assembly, that then this Assembly majority finally has a chance to vote once, instead of voting by command, to oppose a poor approach by the executive authority. Gentlemen, one measure of orientation towards reform and general good, and that criterion concerns an important principle set out in our Constitution, which is the principle of rule of law. The government has sinned with this approach on the rule of law and is still hoping that the Assembly will not do so, respected gentlemen and Mr Arsenovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19983	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19984	Thank you. In the text of the Bill of Law, which is the subject of our amendment, which I submitted in the same text with MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and with colleagues Boris Stefanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Martinovic and Dragan Sutanovac, our amendment refers to the text of the bill, which says that this law takes effect the next day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". We suggest that this member be deleted because we are against this law. A few remarks about the extortion that we often vote on the fact that the laws take effect the next day from the day of publication, not as the constitution says, eight days from the day of publication. It's not the eight-day term of anyone's invention. He has his basis and has reason to leave eight days from the day of publication for entry into force. As a rule, the entry into force of any regulation before the Constitution of a given deadline is some sort of weather extortion. It's never a fundamental provision in the law, it's a time extortion, and all governments will have a problem with that deadline. There will always be some kind of deadline that is too short, some kind of deadline that has been practically missed, some kind of deadline that has not been paid attention, which will require the law to come into effect by making a decision of the Assembly different from what the Constitution says. For many of the laws that I voted for as a national MP and for many for which I was against as a national MP, regardless of who submitted them, there was reason for this reduction in the time limit for publication. Our amendment serves only to keep all of us in mind that such members should be as few as possible and as few as possible by the Parliament’s decision past the defined publication deadline. It's not just an individual case, it's a message to all of us to do our jobs on time, because it's said there are no people who are late, there are only people who didn't go where they wanted to get to or didn't do their job in time. That's the only reason. I don't have an estimate that anyone will vote for this bill, because it's 19 today, and the law has to come into force. We'll see in Voting Day whether or not this Assembly will declare its return action. If that's in Voting Day, we'll have a problem with the lack of will for dialogue, unnecessary lack of will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19985	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the SNS, it is extremely politically hypocritical when people who have shown in part that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being violated in a flagrant manner. First, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia allows laws and other general acts to enter into force before an eight-day period of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" expires. That's one thing. Another thing that MPs of the former regime keep silent and are trying to present to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as a death threat is so-called. a retroactive or return fact of the law, which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also allows. As for the respect of the Constitution, the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are absolutely in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but who is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and who has done everything to crush the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in one part of its territory? The Democratic Party, or political aggregates that came from the DS? Do I need to remind you of the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, to whom today and Friday the Constitution literally comes out of its mouth? Excuse me, you had very clear criticisms of political parties, of the professional public, of the academic public that the Statute of the AP Vojvodina that you adopted in 2009, was in 90% of its provisions contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitutional Court confirmed it. And you who wanted to bring down constitutional order in one part of the state territory now resent this government of the Republic of Serbia that it allegedly violates the Constitution, because you think that citizens are ignorant and that only you own a book called the Constitution and that only you have the right to read something without reading anything. Read Article 196 in general and read Article 197 in general, not just some sentences, so you will see that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is right and that we are right to vote for this bill. Are we in a time blackmail? We did. That's what Alexander Wolf keeps saying. Where good luck had it been for political brains if such laws had been passed in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, Serbia would not have been in this situation in which it is. We now have two years to fix everything that has been done badly in Serbia since 2000. Of course we're in a time blackmail. There are many laws to be passed, many areas of social life that have been systematically ruined. That is why we are rushing forward, therefore, by respecting the Constitution's provision, which says laws can take effect before the eight-day deadline expires, we are trying to correct what has been done badly in Serbia since 2000. There is no need for anyone to be ashamed of the government of the Republic of Serbia, nor Minister Sertic, nor any other minister, because of the bill coming to this National Assembly. You should be ashamed of yourself who for one time suspended the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia because you thought, you who speak of some command today, that we vote by command, and you have declared one man a demigod walking the earth. He was also the president of the party and the president of the state and the prime minister, he was alive in this country. Then, when you abolished the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it needed the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia to restore constitutional order in one part of the state territory over which the DS still rules, with the support of citizens of 5.86%, for one single reason, Mr Sertic, if there is another reason, here, you correct me, fear of arrest. Fear of arrest is the biggest fear that the DS today is completely opposed to the will of the citizens of Vojvodina to hold in power. The last to talk about the protection of the Constitution, about political legitimacy, about some extortions, are those who are systematic, brutal, ruthless, without any responsibility for the citizens from 2000 to 2012, and unfortunately, the people of Vojvodina, here in January 2015, did everything to break down this country to the ground. We've now started a difficult job, to make it over, to make institutions, to establish everything that wasn't there. There was no rule of law, there was nothing. There was the will of a man and there was the will of a party. It's gone in Serbia. Now you can shout to your will, throw, threaten, and so forth. While you, Mrs Comic, chaired this National Assembly, this was a hall in which opposition MPs were exposed to tortures that were not seen in any democratic European Parliament. It's gone. The tyranny has been abolished, unfortunately for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19987	I understand the need for someone to look back on the past, but I'm asking you to stick to the agenda in the debate. According to the amendment, the first word is Mrs. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19988	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, is a beautiful coin "extortion", indeed, but I might have sharpened such a coin. We don't have time to wait anymore, not even in extortion. We are so in the teat with time to implement truly root economic reforms, that even extortion does not help us. We now need to talk about retroactivity. I'm not a lawyer. This return fact when we talk about the actions of Telecom, I do not see the retroactiveness of the law, but simply to return to Telecom what really belongs to it, the value of the shares and the value of the capital of the company that it really belongs to, and that is the part, if we talk about extortion, the need, in order to keep the real value of the state capital of a particular company, whatever it is called and whether it is Telecom and whether it is Galenika and whether it is other companies. It's up to us to keep what we have. On that basis, based on income and expenditure, based on economic reforms and what we have at our disposal, we can simply move on. We can go into investment, we can open this investment environment for both domestic and foreign investors, and the retroactivity in this part of the law is not seen, especially when it comes to the fact that January 25th is the deadline we are talking about that the value of certain actions and certain documents is the deadline. I'm not a lawyer again, but I don't see any retroactivity in this bill. On the other hand, December 31st is a term we're talking about, that it's very important when the balances of the success of the business are brought not only by shareholders, but by all economic operators. So, on December 31st, it's the drawing of a line like you were in the business of a particular company, including Telecom and 31st of December telling us how much you really value on the capital market with your business activities and with your incomes and expenses and with your investments you had, with your number of employees and with your stock value. When you talk to someone, who wants to buy a certain number of shares, each of these documents, each of these facts is very important, you have a certain negotiating position when you talk to certain interested entities. Therefore, any information that there is no certain number of actions returned in that part of the owners to which it belongs is one of the facts that is very important to you and that destroys your negotiating positions when we talk, for example, about Telecom. Retroactivity in this sense of economic assets shares, the "Telecoma" property does not exist. So, December 31st is the period when you bring down certain business balances and investment activities you plan for the next financial year. I don't understand, when we talk about Article 4 and when we talk about that retroactiveness, or the feedback of the law, I just see that there is a return fact of ownership of actions in this part, which is very important for the preservation of the state capital of certain companies, and above all when we talk about Telecom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19989	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19990	I would also like, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, to join in this discussion on amendments, not only about what is the essence of these legislative changes and additions, but also about what is not only the political history of this country, but also about the economic history of this country. We are unexpectedly discussing today whether we have rushed somewhere, and I, as well as my esteemed SNS colleagues, feel that we are in great delay. I think it's an overwhelming impression of the citizens of this country. Serbia is not in a choice between whether in the future, I will now say one year, 2020, waiting for the EU, whether we are in heaven or whether some say hell is waiting for us. I think it's high time for Serbia to come out of this status of continuous waiting. There's this interspace in that, to say the religious mantra, that says that when you're not in heaven or hell, you're in a lobby, some limbo. So, Serbia... (Janko Veselinović from town: Purgatory. ) "Limbou", no, it's already third category - purgatory. But, well, a colleague from the SDS, he warned me about the term - purgatory. That's exactly what we do. So the ruling coalition clears the gaps and does what is necessary to meet the fact that there are still 512 privatisation companies. I will use an expression that Minister Sertic also used, so we must finally decide what to do with companies, companies, shells, as he says, who only have this, this illusion, some economic subject. So we have to bring it, it's already certain, and Minister Sertic said exactly that about 188 of these unprivatised enterprises must go bankrupt. So, I think that some of the previous political parties that came to power in 2000 and until 2012, proved to be unsuccessful hosts, as failed businessmen, and that we are now in legislative action, so as it is prescribed by the Constitution, and others, by political protocols, that in Parliament, in the highest legislative body of this state, we are discussing what we do. We have received the mandate, especially the SNS, but also to a significant extent the SPS, along with our coalition partners PUPS and JS, support for citizens. So, something really has to change, it has to change rapidly. And finally, I would quote the wisdom of a writer, Mesha Selimovic, who said, "Nothing should wait, everything should go to meet." So we're going to meet a better future, we're going to meet better economic, economic, regional, European positions of Serbia, and that's why the speed that citizens have been waiting for us for so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19991	By amendment Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19992	I have in my hands the decision of the 2010 Constitutional Court of Serbia. That decision of the court, and I believe, and that there are colleagues sitting in this room who are so chilling at retroactiveity, and I am sure they remember the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Parson Procedure, that they remember that in this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Pranic Procedure, Article 55, paragraph 2, which was also defined by the Constitutional Court, of course negatively, stands an anthology sentence, the same ones who now see retroactiveity where it is not, in which it is said, declared before the entry into force of this law, declared before the entry into force of this law. This definition of retroactivity. This is the definition of how it shouldn't work. And now the same ones who voted in favour of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure, where the retroactiveness of the law, which defined the Constitutional Court of Serbia, was clearly shown, where they now saw what was not written in the law in any of the four members of the Law on Economic Society, where there was no reference to retroactiveness anywhere. The same representatives of the former regime, the same people who creep out and point to retroactiveness, where there is no vote for retroactivity, very explicitly written in Article 55. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial System, where they also accepted statements before the entry into force of this law, thus doing business both to the Constitutional Court and, of course, to bring down that part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19993	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19994	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured Article 106. Rules of Procedure. I'm not surprised the head of the SNS parliamentary group doesn't know what the subject is. The amendment we are currently discussing has nothing to do with retroactiveness. It is therefore an amendment requiring an extension of the time limit for entry into force from the day of entry into force for a longer period of time. Mrs. Tomic, and Mr. Babic of the SNS, apparently not being followed, what is being debated here today, but I ask you, you are the chairman, you should know that now there is no debate on retroactiveness, that the debate has been and that the subject of the debate is now in force of the law. Please remind the MP when he's not talking about what's on the agenda, no matter what his problem was that he couldn't follow the session, he had a meeting or talked to some phone, I have no idea, but in any case this isn't about any retroactiveness. It's about a member who's in charge of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19995	As for the business of the debate on the agenda, in that part I support you, I said and asked MPs to adhere to the agenda. However, you know well that every MP in his debate comes out of this context, and having the need to probably explain better what he wants to say. In any case, I agree that we should try to do everything we can to stick to the agenda and in that sense I support you, and whether Mr. Babic is right or not in terms of interpreting this member, I will not go into it. I don't think it's mine to interpret. So, Mr. Veselinovic, I support you in that sense to stick to the agenda. Would you like to make a statement in the voting day? No, thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19996	Mr. Chairman, you had to, even though it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure to warn a previous speaker who so skillfully and with such a desire is intruding, and we saw, nose and into my private life, where I go out of the O.R., what I was having lunch with, who I was talking to on the phone or I don't know what, which is against both the law and the Rules of Procedure, against all the moral, political principles. I spoke very clearly and precisely about the amendment to Article 4 of the bill, referring to the retroactivity that has been respected here on every possible amendment, and that is allowed, and you know when you put someone back and when you remind him of everything that he has done, and Mr. Vesenovic has been unprofessional, incompetent and irresponsiblely voting for a law that has defined retroactivity and that is what the Constitutional Court of Serbia has defined, and that is how I get the ban on talking. All the bad things he did, all the bad things he voted for, the ban on talking about in the congregation. We can only talk about the most beautiful, model Boris Tadic, about his model advisors, about everything that has been done evil and bad in this country, which is why the citizens of the Republic of Serbia suffer, so we have to keep quiet. Excuse me, that's not an understanding of democracy, that's not the job of Parliament. I will always talk about anomalies that never happen again, and the SDS, the New Democratic, the old, however, is the anomaly of our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19997	Mr. Babico, I'm also asking you, don't use words incompetent, unprofessional. Please respect each other, we can have different opinions, different attitudes, make such an effort to at least that level... I didn't realize that Veselinovic wanted it offensively, but he just commented that you might not have been in the O.R. or anything like that. But, well, you have the right to get angry with that, too, so I ask all MPs when they advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure to speak. Leave words that may cause another man's dissatisfaction to cause a kind of insult. Please behave like this. Do you want to vote on it? No, I don't. ) The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19998	Yes, the Honorable Chairman. This time you hurt Article 107. You were obliged to warn the head of the SNS parliamentary group during the discussion because he used offensive terms. So, all day long, from the Social Democratic Party we're talking about the law, we're talking about amendments, we're talking about what's in this law. In no part, we have been demeaning, insulting the other side, even I would say that we are stoically putting up with all the insults and disrespects that come first from Mr Babic only because of the citizens of Serbia, because they are not obliged, they are not obliged. We should endure and respect the citizens of Serbia because they chose us among other things to point to the bad things that the government does. I think you have a duty to point out every insult to dignity and MPs and other political parties, and not to act differently from the ruling coalition parties, primarily the SNS and the opposition parties. In that sense, I consider the chairmanship to be doing very bad practice as Mr Becic did by terrorizing the opposition MPs, not to do so, to allow amendments to be discussed here. I pointed out that Mr. Babic was talking about the previous amendment not the amendment that was the subject of the debate, and what's wrong with it? Instead of admitting it, he sends insults to our leader, party, etc., to mine, I say, I forgive because he probably doesn't know what he's doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u19999	If I were to strictly comply with the Rules of Procedure, then I'd have to give you a warning, too, Mr. Veselinovic, because you've actually used... So, at that point, what you don't want someone else to tell you, don't tell anyone else. If we do so, then we will preserve this dignity of the congregation. And you used the same inappropriate, let's say, word for Vienna, etc. So, I'm trying, I'm not going to guarantee and claim that I'm very objective, to be as subjective as possible. As much as possible and believe me, when I sit here, you're all the same to me. You may not feel it, but I feel it and I try. So, please, if I'm protecting someone, one party or another or not, I can't accept it, but it's your right to say it, and I don't have to respect it. Would you like to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word is Aleksandra Tomic by the Rules of Procedure, so let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20000	I thank the chairman. Article 104 and Article 106, the part where we speak in general about the fact that certain MPs are not well understood and are simply attacked because a lack of discussion in terms of members of the law simply does not stand for the simple reason that in reasons a tendency is repeatedly repeated that retroactiveness is the reason for breaking such a law at all and not voting. What has been the debate under these certain amendments is in favour of the fact that the the thesis in the arguments does not stand by the proposings, and I have therefore come to the breach of the Rules of Procedure that I am telling you as the chairman that MPs who have indeed delivered such opinions in a certain way have not done, as I say, correctly, collegiately because they simply disabling the citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20001	Mrs. Tomic, there's no need to explain? Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, on what grounds? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: By amendment. ) Then first Gordana Komic and then you. Mrs. Comic, you have two minutes since the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20002	Thank you. Obviously, an clarification is necessary on the amendment to Article 4 which speaks about the entry into force of the law, and the bill is required to enter into force the next day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I have shared my view with the National Assembly that this is a constitutional solution and that only when it comes to extortion, it is time, when or when you have nothing else to do but suggest that it be not eight days, as is the constitutional solution, but that it enters into force earlier. I said that this amendment should be in collective memory of such extortion because someone missed the deadline, because someone didn't read something, it's as little as possible, it's good for everyone. About that amendment, I was talking about the explanation of the bill that was delivered to us all, I hope. I would not like to, and from the discussions of fellow Members of Parliament it seems that we have not all received the same explanation, which I do not think is possible because I have a very high opinion on the professional service of the Assembly. In the light of the law ahead of us, retroactiveness is proposed. It is related to the entry into force just as much as the retroactivity of the vote in the voting day. That wouldn't be a problem... The SNS are getting it. I see that the MPs also receive the MP Zoran Babic. Please understand that Alexander is not very important to all of us and that we think he's very good. It's not. We think he's just the Prime Minister and he deserves it, but your sensitivity and misunderstanding that he's not all Alexander the star... What can I tell you? He was healthy, he was alive, but he wasn't. So, the problem was that we were asked to vote on retroactivity, and what the minister said was no retroactivity. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20003	By amendment? (Zoran Babić, from the place: Replica, direct mention. It was nothing. I can give you the amendment, but I really don't see anything offensive. I'm sorry, Babic, because I have to tell Vladimir Pavicevic who called before that said he didn't have time. You've wasted your time and discussed the amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: I did not spend all my time.) It is. I have information here. So you can't get the word. Mr. Grandmother, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20004	Mr. Chairman, with the same barbecue that they were defending the topic a little while ago and defending the subject of an amendment in which there was no retroactivity when I was talking about the retroactivity they had adopted, I have not now seen the Rules of Procedure raised which will remind Mrs. Komic of why she is talking about retroactivity, and especially about retroactivity where there is no law in the bill, in the bill of law. That's why they made me call again and again to show the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision, which is part of Article 55(2) of the amendment. The law on litigation, which was adopted by Mrs Comic, who explained this amendment and thus fought retroactivity, voted for retroactivity in the act in which it was said - declared before the entry into force of this law. How can someone fight the retroactivity that has created the etalor of retroactivity in this law, which was passed in 2010 in which the SNS did not participate, and then suddenly the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Alexander Vukic, is introduced. What does the Prime Minister have to do with the retroactiveness that was brought down by the Serbian Constitutional Court in 2010? Do you want to put that on his back, too? Do you want to take back something that was an argument a few days ago, when I told you how many laws you passed, and that the validity of that law was going on the next day of publication, as it is here, in this law? Well, don't mess with what you've been doing so much. Of course it takes a break from bad things, but that, as counterpart Martinovic said, must come from those who can say – hey, you should do it that way and that way and not do it - we're bad, and now you, and why do you not know what. You've adopted retroactivity, adopted, explicitly adopted retroactivity in the law of litigation, and now you see retroactivity where it doesn't say anything. You have passed laws that were valid the next day of publication, and now you say – why is this law the day after publication? To criticize things, you have to qualify, and you haven't passed qualifications, let alone run to the main field.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20005	The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20006	We were also in the principle debate on this law, but even before, when we discussed other laws, we were against the fact that the laws would arrive in the procedure of emergency procedure, they would be adopted by emergency procedure and they would come into force overnight. This will be discussed today by parliamentarians in the EU Assembly, where they will tell us that this is not in line with the spirit of European tradition and the value of the laws being adopted by an urgent procedure. It is likely that one day it will come to the agenda of the parliament and the story of the laws taking place in an emergency procedure. Why is it necessary for some law not to enter into an emergency procedure, it can also be found in law books for both high school and colleges, etc.? It is said - the meaning of this constitutional provision consists in the need to provide assumptions for full implementation of the law, training of persons dealing with the application of the institute in this law, training in respect of the supervision of the application of the law and other assumptions, and that the public is informed of the law contained and that economic operators, i.e. legal persons and entrepreneurs, i.e. the state authorities are preparing for their obligations. So, you have one night so that all these entities will be introduced to the law, or they will be unknown what this law says, or "Telecoma" shareholders, that this law is passed, these 20% will not know what hit them, because by yesterday they had the right to buy out actions, their own "Telecoma" actions, they'll have no right to buy, from tomorrow they won't have it. Only then will he realize that the law has been passed, that he has entered into force. You don't just do it with this law. Where's the general interest in that? We have a practice tonight that will disprove your desire to have an effective rule of law. Tonight we will adopt a law where there is a general interest, and as far as notaries are concerned, it concerns the application of the Law on Notaries, the transport of immovable property, etc., where the work of courts, state authorities, will take effect in eight days. There's time, there's time for the judiciary to start working in eight days, and this is where the law needs to come into force within 24 hours practically. Here you can see the incoordination of this government, incompetence, incompetence and all that is “no” and what is characterized by this government. She, unfortunately, cannot defend herself by calling for the past, talking about some things that have nothing to do with this law. We are talking about today's laws, the application of the law, that people in Serbia live badly because they have a bad government, because they have incompetent ministers, because they have MPs who raise their hands to everything the government proposes, and that's why citizens have less pensions and less wages, so they have an inefficient judiciary and so on. It's already become clear to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20007	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20008	What can I say, apart from saying – God forbid the previous speaker didn't raise his hand for all the bad, incompetent, unprofessional, unquality government of Mirko Cvetkovic, God forbid he didn't raise his hand, not one, both hands for all the bad things that hit this country and all its citizens from 2008 to 2012. When he raised his hand, well, that was wonderful, that was a great, beautiful time. Watch out, beautiful weather. Now he's calling on SNS MPs not to raise their hands. You know, it's bad, it's terrible. What about when he raised both hands and arms and legs if necessary, for Mirko Cvetkovic and the government of the DS who worked, who humiliated our society? On the other hand, I might take both the promoter and the amendment seriously if he could explain to me what the law under emergency procedure is. Hey, doctor of legal science - effective by emergency procedure. The entry into force of the law can be the next day from the day of publication, eight days, a month, as much as the amendment promoter suggested, but I haven't seen anywhere, see, I admit my very modest legal knowledge, no legal knowledge if necessary, but there are lawyers here. I contacted and spoke with Mr. Martinovic, a top lawyer, a doctor of law science, if there is any law enforcement by emergency procedure. It doesn't exist. I can understand that I said that, as a graduate engineer, so I don't get taken seriously and for evil, but when a doctor says that, it's a disaster. You can refer the law to an emergency procedure, it's okay, but if the law goes into effect by an emergency procedure, I haven't seen it in any law. Please, colleagues, I will apologize to the amendmentr, if necessary, if you show me in some law a member of the law that says - the law takes effect on an urgent procedure. It doesn't exist. If someone who isn't a legal profession doesn't know that, that's fine, but when a doctor doesn't know that, I think it's very unserious, that way I accept everything he says, everything he says, because this is something that I think is being taught in the first year of law school.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20009	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20010	I said and I'll stick to it that I won't really respond to the insults because the citizens of Serbia don't deserve it, because most of the MPs sitting here don't deserve it. When I was talking about the urgency of the procedure, I was talking about the fact that this law came by emergency procedure and came into force the next day. (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: Take the stenogram. I said the next day, within 24 hours. Then I was talking about the fact that today in the European Parliament, it is debated that the laws are coming by emergency procedure and are being adopted in this procedure. I was talking about urgency. So, the law came by emergency procedure, was discussed as discussed, in the inability of the opposition to say, because when we say that the bad government, incompetent, is taking away my word Thursday. Then I said I was talking about a member where this law takes effect 24 hours practically from today, so on the day of publication, it will practically be 24 hours from now. Then it's a complete situation that those who need to apply the law don't have the opportunity to have insight into the law and that's the real truth, no substitute thesis here can be.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20011	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm trying very hard to understand what Mr. Veselinovic, my dear colleague, is trying to say, but it's not coming my way. Article 196(4) states very clearly: “Laws and other general acts shall enter into force as early as the eighth day from the day of publication, and may enter into force early only if there are, in particular, the reasons set out in their adoption. ” Have we now violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says laws can enter into force earlier if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted? Of course not. The parliamentary majority, the assembly majority, has the right to establish that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I don't know how, Mr. Veselinovic, you count those days, classes, etc. The bill makes it very clear – the next day from the day of publication and now it bothers you. You said yourself, we'll talk about a set of judicial laws this afternoon. That's where it bothers you now that it's been standing for eight days. I really don't know what you want right now. To come into force the next day, to take effect on the eighth day, 58 days? I really don't understand what your political intentions are. What I also don't understand, perhaps you, Mr. Minister, understand, Mr. Veselinovic said that when companies where the majority owner of the state are operating with profits, and Teleko is operating with profits, and that is the profit of the payment to the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is a bottomless hole. Here, now dives crocodile tears for educators, doctors and everyone else who is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that has nothing to do with each other. The government of the Republic of Serbia, this government run by the SNS and this government led by Aleksandar Vukic, has introduced as a practice that public enterprises are and that companies with the majority participation of state capital in the service of the state, in the service of the people, and not in the service of any political party. No previous government has forced any public enterprise and no company to pay its profits in the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's what this government does now. Now it bothers you. Then you say, yes, but, you know, you're cutting your salary to educators, doctors, pregnant women, children, ask God to whom, and all those categories of citizens and all those professions are funded from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, that concept of yours, Mr. Veselinovic, with all due respect, doesn't make any sense at all. What you are also not consistent with, you must once determine whether you respect this Rules of Procedure, which you yourself have brought or do not respect. That laws can be proposed by an emergency procedure, it says in the Rules of Procedure that you voted for. I didn't vote. Zoran Babic didn't vote for this Rules of Procedure either. We apply it until another one is brought. You have introduced this as an option, and now that we apply what is written in the Rules of Procedure, you ask, and why do you apply it when it says in the Rules of Procedure? When we write - the next day from the day of publication, you ask - and why you wrote the next day, even though the Constitution allows it. When in this set of judicial laws we write on the eighth day, you ask -- and what did you write on the eighth day, why didn't it take effect yesterday? You don't know what your policy is anymore. You not only changed the name of the party, you changed the policy, you changed everything. The only point of relying on the Archimedes language is said - criticise everything that comes from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's the simplest policy possible. Whatever comes to the Assembly isn't right because it came from the government run by the SNS. It's the simplest policy, but trust me, it's the most pointless. You have no other argument, except an argument of political hatred – I do not love Alexander Vukic, I do not like SNS, and therefore I criticize everything that comes from this government. That the government has put public enterprises and companies with the majority participation of state capital in the service of the state and the people, you don't care. How was your time? There's no Mr. Djurisic, he was playing a quiz, so he asked us, do we know any non-public company with the majority participation of state capital? I know, Galenika a.d., I was the chairman of the Supervisory Board, of a company that may have been the most successful in Europe. Boris Tadic, who was everything to you and shined, according to Gordana Comic, managed to destroy "Gallenika" and a thousand other "Gallenika". Now Mr. Zeljko Sertić has appeared and now you've rolled your sleeves – now we're going to ask Sertić why he didn't do this and why he didn't do it. Well, what Sertic is little to correct everything that has been badly done for 14 years. That's what Serbian citizens understand and that's what the citizens of Serbia understood in 2014. Serbian citizens understood that in both Bor and Majdanpek and everywhere after March 2014. There's no Borko Stefanovic. Well, that's what the citizens of Iriga understand. People run from the Democratic Party, they won't be in the parties that the municipalities treat as a money-laundering machine. That must be clear to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20013	Mr. Martinovic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20014	I'm back on the agenda. I tried to explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what the former regime tried to cloud in their heads, that everything is in accordance with the Constitution, that everything is in line with the principle of rule of law and that everything is in line with the interests of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20015	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, by amendment? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica! Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20016	What is very bad for Serbian citizens is that Mr. Martinovic's party changed its name but did not change its policy. That's what Serbian citizens see every day. Changing the name of the Serbian Radical Party to the Serbian Progressive Party does not mean that you will change politics, or that you will return to the radicals at that time. That shows up these days. When it comes to budget holes, there is a folk proverb that says, "To get out of the hole, you have to stop digging it." Gentlemen, you're not doing anything to get out of the hole. You've put us in charge of eight billion euros in just two years. You're still digging that hole. You owe us more than any previous government. To answer to my esteemed colleague, Mr. Martinovic, for several findings regarding entry into force. Yes, Mr. Martinovic, you're right, the law can take effect before the eighth day of publication. However, it is said to be – only, therefore, an exception, if there are particularly reasonable reasons for this when the law is passed. But that "only" became a rule with you, so you send the laws according to emergency procedures and enter into force before the eighth day of publication, i.e. they enter into force 24 hours from the day of publication. Why do we feel that these laws that we need to adopt tonight should take effect before eight days? Because we think it's necessary for the work of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20017	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20018	Dear MPs, I really must react again to the accusations in this assembly that I am already listening to the second day in a row, and that's the question that the government is doing nothing, nothing is doing to improve life, citizens' standards and it's a complete mess, and now we're getting accusations and how we bring unconstitutional laws here, etc. Please, we got in the legacy of the previous regime a complete mess. Over three thousand companies have been privatized so far. We have 200 companies left to try and do something with them. In this fight to do anything, you know that we're negotiating with "The Iron," you know that we're trying to save the Petrochemical Complex, you know that we're trying to solve some problems, we have some small businesses even potentially possible for a serious market. What happens even at that moment, since we're accused of being the ones who aren't doing our job well and quality? The Vojvodina Development Fund directly obstructs the privatisation of certain enterprises and bringing in foreign investors. The large Italian company Ferrero is on its way to give up fully on business and on investments and of nearly 8m euros and employment of several hundred workers because the Vojvodina Development Fund will not give up the document that everyone else has given, all the state authorities have agreed, said it is the best possible way to privatise and work in Serbia as we have. Is this a way of supporting development? That's no problem, no position, no opposition. The problem is how these people are gonna live. How are we going to explain to people who need to do new hazelnut plantings or make some new production tomorrow? You know, someone for pure political reasons hasn't made a decision. All economic reasons exist. We have another danger, if the takeover we're talking about goes bankrupt, someone will be held responsible for it because it will cause direct damage to the Vojvodina Development Fund. Enough with the accusations that nobody's doing anything, how we're boastful, incompetent, incompetent.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20019	You have two minutes, unfortunately, which are up. The word is Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20020	During Mr. Martinovic's exposure, you injured the Rules of Procedure. I answered, so you didn't give me your word right away, and now there were more elements in the presentation of the minister to warn him, that he couldn't talk to the MPs here. But what Mr. Martinovic said, you had to warn him, Mr. Konstantinovic, I don't know if you know that all over Serbia, the committees are filing criminal charges because of the way the Serbian Progressive Party is transposing the authorities in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20021	Mrs. Jerkov, please, let us understand each other. First, you didn't tell me on what grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20022	Article 108.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20023	Then, I accept my mistake in giving the Minister my word before that, but I felt that there was no point in interrupting a man and that it would not be so important to affect your content of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'll give you back your time. But I have to admit, I don't understand whose exposure I've injured the Rules of Procedure, I don't understand it at all, so I'm asking you a member and whose exposure, where I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Sign up again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20024	I answered again. So, I think you've injured Article 108. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Martinovic was not reminded of the things he said in his presentation. He claimed, in effect, that the councilmen are running headlong regardless of the Democratic Party, forgetting to say that across Serbia the Democratic Party's boards are reporting to the police the ways in which the Serbian Progressive Party is transmuting power in municipalities. In the Irig municipality, the Serbian Progressive Party has not won any mandate, and now, here, it forms power. District MPs from the Democratic Party are reporting to the police that they are being threatened by Serbian Progressive Party officials to mention some agreements with Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20025	Mrs. Jerkov, please. I understand what you said. But now I won't let you explain. I won't let you, because now you're breaking into another game and another story. Finish your replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20026	Okay, I'll get it over with, and Mr. Sertic should be ashamed of the way he talks about the Vojvodina Development Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20027	Mrs. Jerkov, you see, you're putting me in such a position that I should react now. Now everyone else will have the right to say that I broke the Rules of Procedure. Please don't. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: You do as you think you should. ) Respect, if nothing, my age, that I should treat you incorrectly now, not according to the Rules of Procedure. I respect you, and respect you as my daughter, and look upon you like this. Not you, Goco, you're closer to my generation. Okay, joke aside, please respect the Rules of Procedure, respect him. Zoran, do you have the same replica? And you, according to the amendments. Okay. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Martinovic, I don't really see the reason for the replica. Really, buddyly please. Whose exposure, please? (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: At the exhibition of Miss Jerkov. You can't, she's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: Ali, directly mentioned me. It doesn't matter, it's about hurting the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandar Martinovic, from the post: Can I then report for damage to the Rules of Procedure, Article 107?) All right, then, breach of the Rules of Procedure. I can accept that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20028	I thank you, Mr. Arsenovic. I won't be rude to my colleague Jerkov. We in this House have moments when we successfully co-operate, but I understand that the Democratic Party is in a major panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20029	No, no, sir. I won't let you. Please don't. (Alexander Martinović, from town: I am finishing. Just two sentences, please. I won't. Martinovic, please don't. I'm very different from what is a breach of the Rules of Procedure and what is an attempt to abuse the Rules of Procedure. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: I am discussing the breach of the Rules of Procedure. No, don't, please. Let's be collegiate. No, I don't. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I am taking the opportunity to advertise the violation of Articles 103 and 107. In fact, Article 103 speaks of the right of MPs to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I hope you won't mind me doing the same, since I very rarely do it, which is also evident from statistics. The 107th says – a speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, I suppose you'll allow me to question it a little bit, because when a respected colleague advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure and talks about the purchase of a committee, it violates the dignity of the National Assembly, it is not about advertising of the Rules of Procedure, it is about one claim, so I could also say that on the day of the inauguration of Tomislav Nikolic in Leskovic promoted Boris Tadic and Dragan Djilas, saying that the committees are representatives of citizens, not representatives of political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20031	No, Marian, I won't let you either. (Marian Risticevic, from town: Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you. ( ) Do you want us to plead on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica, to explain. You have no right to a replica. Mr. Pavicevic, you were not mentioned at all in any word. There were words here according to the amendment submitted by Mr. Janko Veselinovic. Please don't. You have no right to a replica at all. Thank you very much. The word has been given by MP Vuceta Toskovic, a man has been waiting for half an hour. Here you go. By amendment, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20032	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in this Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law, I see nothing controversial that the opposition is saying, that this is meant for the sale of Telecom and such things. So nowhere in these members is talking about it. Again, I can't understand that, and that's a mild word to say, "stealing" who, up to 12 years, broke this house apart and took loans...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20033	Toskovic, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20034	Let me just connect. Therefore, the bottomless hole will be recharged only because loans are now being taken to start the economy and to speed up reforms. So, we're raising loans to improve the economy, not to pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20035	Mr. Toskovic, please, what do credits have to do with this amendment now, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20036	There is. Now the next statement will be about the amendment. The biggest act in the state is the Constitution, and in this Constitution Article 196 says the lawyers know it well, but these things matter nothing but being contrary to what they don't need. That the law and other acts can be passed in eight days or before only if there are conditions to be passed. So nothing breaks here. It just breaks what they've been doing so far and taking loans to share the people and the elections end with that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20037	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20038	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's plenty of time for the SNS to wait for the amendment promoter to respect the National Assembly and not turn his back on his colleagues. I have only one part in my hands from one session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held and held a vote on 29 December 2011, where only one session of the seven laws adopted was adopted that the validity of these laws was the day after the day of publication. And this was the 2012 Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia that had to be adopted again instead of Santa Claus in the National Assembly, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, the Act on Excises, the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Law on Judicial Taxes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Environmental Protection of the Environment Fund. Only at one session, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs who fight so much for the respect of the Constitution, and I think that fellow Martinovic proved by expertise that the Constitution also provides for the category provided for by this law, but what the former regime so sweetly consumed, so used, so voted, not once but with two hands, now suddenly it is no good, now suddenly why not eight days or why not 48 days. Make arrangements, gentlemen, just what you want, and whatever you want, there's no problem, we'll fill you in, and we'll fill you in. As far as the reasons for the amendment itself are concerned, in one thing I would agree with my fellow promoter, which is that Serbian citizens are increasingly seeing differences in our policies, but in the application of these policies. Well, that's why citizens who see the difference in our policies and policy application see that in 2008, the DS had 38% support and 22% support in 2012, and now not a full 6%. Here, Serbian citizens saw, as they saw that SNS was 24% in 2012, 48%, and now we see these latest local elections show support that is over 60%. I agree that Serbian citizens are politically written, see who, what policy and water and propagating, but also applies, and therefore I agree with the amendment's proposal that Serbian citizens see the difference in our policies, and that difference in policies is exactly seen in the polls, rather than as a threat to the cheerleading jokes of political parties that we belong to, what we are going to do here and who we are going to negotiate. And in the end, I will no longer answer this law, Mr. Sertic, I am not surprised that the province government and Bojan Pajtic have done so when it comes to the Ferrero Roša case. You know, it's the government's first reform move in the shadow of DS and Bojan Pajtic. You know, they sit in the shadows and don't allow investment. They're stopping jobs. They stop everything we want and what Serbia wants to do and hire people. You know, that's how you do it in the shadows. Probably tired of working so much in the province, so he was in Krusevec on Friday. Did he take an official car to a political rally? Did he take the official car maybe the government of the AP Vojvodina? Is this part of the spending of those funds that he had provided for the 2015 budget, where he himself predicted, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, probably for the province government and the shadow government, although the shadow government is not a constitutional category, so he predicted only seven times more funds than is foreseen for the regularly elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia for Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. How did Mr. Bojan Pajtic go to Kruševac on Friday for a political rally? Whose expense did he go to? Mr. Chairman, this is something that is painful for citizens living in Vojvodina. This is something that citizens living in Vojvodina are wondering – what is the province's power of 6% of support doing? What's he doing at work? How do they drive their cars? How is it possible to take cars, not their own but the provinceal governments cars to a political rally? How is this a political gathering being held at work?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20039	Please, Mr. Granny, I know it's painful. But please, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20040	Please and the SNS held a session of both the presidency and the main committee on the same day, but we kept out of business hours, when we are not paid by Serbian citizens, us to do political promotion. We are paid to work, and Bojan Pajtić is paid to be in the shadows, but in the section of Kruševec, at the working time and in the official cars of the AP Vojvodina. So, Mr. Sertić, all this happening with Ferrero Roche, all that is happening and what is a reflection of the government in shadow and the government of Bojan Pajtic and DS, I am not surprised because 12 and 15 years, respectively, have stopped life in Serbia. No wonder they want to stop another investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20041	Mr. Babiæ, please, you didn't want to listen to me, I beg you, what you've been talking about for the last few minutes now, I'm not saying that it doesn't hurt the people or that it's not an interesting topic, but just as the Rules of Procedure obliges you to talk about the subject of the agenda. That wasn't the subject of the agenda. That question, for this there is a way you can run and ask, and therefore I ask you to use other instruments and ways and to get to know the public and the Assembly, but it is, in my opinion, the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure as much as possible. The word has the People's MP Dejan Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20042	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have every right to draw attention to yourself in such unfortunate words. But you have to know the words, that's the attention. What can the naked truth against the bright charms of lies? What I have to admit, a few things are more boring to me here in the Assembly. To hear about the groundless accusations and to hear about the reform of Alexander Vukic. Citizens trust their eyes more than their ears. I know you'd prefer the citizens to believe your eyes rather than their own, but their eye doesn't see anything. It's just not reform. I don't know what more in this House we can hear about these Cerchilski reforms of Aleksandr Vukic, and when you scratch a little with public enterprises, let's say, Serbian Railways, you see blood, tears, sweat and truffles. In Nis blood, tears, sweat and city without light. In Vojvodina's blood, tears, sweat in New Sad and Andrei Fagley. It's just not the reforms, gentlemen, it's not the reforms, it's the political gambling of the incompetent people you've set up and you expect from them what they don't expect from themselves. Citizens, it will give you a very vivid answer in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20043	Zoran Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20044	I thought "Government in Shadow", but not "Government in Shadow", but "Stelt Government". You know, they weren't at Krushevac, Mr. Chairman. They didn't use AP Vojvodina's official cars, they weren't paid from the AP Vojvodina budget to do nothing that day, as well as the days before. So it's some stealth government of Bojan Pajtic and DS, which you can't see, the hour you don't see, the hour stop Ferrero Roche, the hour is here to throw out some tweet and to call for a weapon in the fight against who. I'm sorry, it's not the shadow government, it would be visible, the stealth government of Bojan Pitiæ. It's the latest invention. After you were left with tears, blood, sweat, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and debts, and you remained on the soul and in honor and the Galenika and the Vojvodine Development Bank and the Universal Bank, the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, the Vojvodina Development Fund, all of them, hundreds and hundreds of companies that you privatized in a robbery manner, in a criminal way, in a corrupt way and what is left for those people who have lost their jobs, are left to shed tears while you count bills, squares and square meters on the Vrakar, in the pastures of another category, while Oliver Dulic numbers from Numba Invest or how much more, what should be numbered, optical cables or what, while Saša Dragin numbers artificial manure that instead of ending with agricultural producers, money ended in their pockets. That's what you count, 13% of how many people you've left out of work, 400,000 people who have lost their jobs, that soul, you have to count, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20045	How long are we gonna be like this? I have to break this up, but I'll give you another line this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20046	Mr. Chairman, since decency has long lost its battle here, let's try to preserve our dignity. It is true that Aleksandar Vucic won the previous elections, which is true, in legitimate and legal elections, but you have to distinguish between good choices and the right choice. The fact that the citizens of 16 March thought Alexander Vukic was a good choice doesn't mean he's the right choice, and that's what you convince them from day to day. These are serious times. We need serious people to solve serious problems. That's what no one expects of you. What reforms have we been hearing here for three years? About fighting crime and corruption, no convictions, investment without investors. Are those reforms? One thing you've done in three years, you'd boast of it here, and you've decided to deal with the opposition, because you haven't done one thing in three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20047	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20048	If Mr. Nikolic thinks Mr. Vukic is good, and perhaps not the right choice, it has proved that Mr. Pitiæ is good, nor is he real, and that is a huge difference, Mr. Nikolic. If you feel that speaking truth is a rude reminder of what fills the judicial units, which fills... (Dejan Nikolic, from the place: And what exactly, what fills? )......................................................................................................... Is this polite to throw, Mr. Chairman? Since she lost her dignity in this National Assembly. I don't know who. Whether of the SNS who are patiently silent about all the insults that are attributed to her here or from those like Mr Nikolic who worship us with the epithets "stoco", "super", "super" or "super" I don't know how. Yes, Mr. Nikolic, you, because you're sitting in the same bench with Mr. Sutanovac who did it or Mr. Sutanovac may not be in the same faction that you are in, perhaps not in the same part of the DS that you are in, or perhaps Mr. Zivkovic who worshiped us with these epithets, may not have been on the same list as you, perhaps he didn't help you cross the censorship, or he or you to him. You're easily disowning politics and everything you've done since 2012. It can't, it's not enough to say – turkey dots don't work, here's an apology. You will apologize to the moment you give the citizens of Serbia their dignity, when you give them back all those jobs you took from them, when you give them back the future you took from them, when you recover their public finances and I don't wait, I don't ask, and I don't expect you, Mr. Nikolic, to tell them what good reform measures they are. Enough was the foreign minister of Great Britain, perhaps a man does not know about you, perhaps not competent enough, in your opinion, but it is enough that he showed the right course in the government of the Republic of Serbia a few days ago and the real reforms of the Serbian government's measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20049	There's a word for the amendment, and this has already gone beyond that, and I'm not going to let it happen again. We're off the agenda, please. No more replicas, but whoever wants to follow the amendment can, Dr. Janko Vesenovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20050	Yes, although the chairman, Mr. Babic, the SNS, did a favor again today, they talked about everything they wanted, which is wrong, Mr. Chairman. I'll be wasting my time on an authorised representative. I will say, when it comes to this amendment, by the head of the SNS parliamentary group, he spoke about what Serbian citizens saw. Serbian citizens saw their salaries, pensions, their health status, education, and that was seen by Serbian citizens. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Is this an amendment? I'd like to ask Mr. Babic not to throw it at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20051	Please, gentlemen, don't, no one will see themselves. Mr. Babico, you're throwing from there now, throwing this one away, getting on the side. I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure, as you have not followed the amendment, I see he is not sticking to the amendment. But please, Mr. Veselinovic, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20052	And I'm asking you to give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20053	I'll give you your time back, but on the condition that you speak by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20054	So I'll talk about the amendment, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Babic said that we were passing laws as well as emergency procedures. Right, we brought when it was made possible by the Constitution, or necessary, when there were reasons for it, and the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Serbia is one of those reasons, if 1. 1. There would be no budget financing under the new budget, then temporary funding would be applied, which could be harmful to Serbian citizens. Only Mr Babic didn't tell us that he remembers that vote in 2012, that maybe he wasn't one of those who covered the papers in the last row voted for that same budget? I'm afraid so. We voted in public for that budget and there was nothing controversial about it, because it was an exception to us. What you are doing now is a rule, and we believe that this law should not enter into force the day after the publication, and we believe that the constitutional principle on which the laws enter into force on the eighth day of publication and we hope, here is the president of the National Assembly of Serbia that the future, the president of the National Assembly, and you are also a lawyer, will enter into force as the constitution requires, and only exceptionally within one day of publication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20055	The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20056	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, as regards an amendment that speaks of the need for the law to come forward from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger", says the need for this law to exist in the act to implement economic reforms as soon as possible. We in the Serbian Parliament had opportunities to adopt a set of reform laws. It is up to the government to implement certain legal solutions, and one of the solutions was that in the SNS pre-election campaign, economic reforms also entail the opening of new investments. These investments are possible if you have capital, state capital to the extent that you know they really have a certain value. We didn't know that until now. Until the implementation of economic reforms, we did not know how many employees are in the public sector, or how practical the value of the capital of public or social enterprises is. Only with the consolidation of public finances, with the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the rebalancing and what conditioned it as signing an agreement with the IMF we knew how we would create a future in the next three years. What is more important to say, questions that are being asked why this is now being done and why is such an emergency needed? For the simple reason that when the former regime, at all certain MPs say there is no possibility and a good solution that it is the government of Mr Alexander Vukic and that it is simply not a good choice, so Serbian citizens have said who is the right and who is the right choice. We are all dealing with this together in the interests of citizens because they recognize who is quality and who will give, who will lead this Serbia into development, and who will lead, simply remove all those debts that we have found ourselves in as a state, where we are in trouble with certain investments that no one wants to cooperate with you anymore. Now you have confessions, not only from international institutions, but from envious companies who are willing to come and invest. A "Ferero roche" that plans to transfer its production from Turkey to Serbia and create new jobs in the production of its conditioning products, with a principle from field to table, or by growing hazelnuts on certain agricultural land, to the very production of finished products that you have the opportunity to find in our hypermarkets, shows that with such production here, these products would above all fall simply the price of these claims so that Serbian citizens would have the opportunity to have such products available at very low prices. It's not just Ferrero Roche, many companies want to come in such a way as to invest in such a thing. With the laws we would vote and who would simply be late, we would deny investors such an opportunity. Therefore, what we have heard from Mr. Minister really needs the amendment given to Article 4 not to be adopted from the day of adoption and notification in "The Official Messenger", indeed would have stalled many investors, such as "Ferero Roche". What we heard here in the presentation of the Minister, that there are simply certain institutions, means state institutions that are led by the DS, which are trying to stop investment flows and economic activities that would lead to the creation of new jobs, show a very bad policy that we had the opportunity to face by 2012. You don't need to run away from it and say that DS, so the government in Vojvodina is practically more than 12 years old and whether it was in the shadows and whether it's in the sun today, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20057	I'm asking you about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20058	The amendment speaks of the need to pass laws in as short a time period as possible. For a reason, this amendment has not been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20059	Thank you. The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20060	Replica, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20061	Whose exhibit wasn't I here for?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20062	At the presentation of Mr. Veselinović. This is a way of understanding a policy that has nothing to do with democracy or logic or anything. When this assembly majority in which Mr. Veselinović belonged was doing so extensively, and not only at this session of December 29th 2011, here I am grateful for the services they brought me, here and on February 29th 2012, not only in an urgent procedure, but in the morning of the publication of these laws, one law on giving the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia at the Commercial Bank for JAT Airways, and then the Hypo Alpe Adria Bank for Step Step Step of Stepanović, all the borrowings and all the urgent procedures and everything immediately and all the next day. Now, when he's working the former regime and when he's been working the former regime, I'm not saying that this is not in accordance with the law. It is, in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the Constitution. And then they have reasons, then they had reasons, and when this congregation majority does it with much more significant and powerful reasons, it's right against the law. Let's make a deal once, whether these are the same laws, and most of you have adopted them, we respect those laws until they change. How does one condition apply in 2012, 2011 and the other conditions in 2014 and 2015? Another little explanation. You know, the Budget Law, and that's what Mr. Vesenovic deliberately overlooked, I don't believe he's so incompetent and unprofessional that he doesn't know that the Budget Law is being referred to the Assembly procedure on November 1st of every year for the following year and that he doesn't have to wait until December 30th to adopt himself, because, for God's sake, he's going to go into emergency funding. Why didn't they see it before? Why they failed to comply with both the Constitution and the law and the Rules of Procedure and referred to the procedure on 1 November.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20063	Replication time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20064	Just one more sentence, please, that those who claimed that I was doing something covered in the paper have long since left the political scene of Serbia, and on this well-tagged road is Mr. Vesenovic's political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20065	Thank you. I won't allow any more replicas, we talked about it so much, an hour and a half were replication. There's no basis for any more replicas. We need to move on to the agenda. I'm sure you'll replicate. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: When?) No, there's no basis now. The answer to the answer, the answer to the answer, I wonder if anyone understands what we're... (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Why did you give it to him? ) I'll give you the stenograms as I did last time when I didn't give the MP a line because he claimed one thing, and now I'm going to give it to you because I started collecting the stenograms, because nobody believes me it looks like an O.R. Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments of the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia You have received amendments to the Law on Amendments of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia by National MPs: Zoran Živković, Vladimir Pavićić, Boris Stefanović, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolić, Balša Bozinović, Dragan Šutanovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Marković, Marko Đurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snežana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanović Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaže Bradić and Ivan Karić, as well as the Committee on Economic Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozinović, Dragan Šutanovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Jovan Markovic, and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snežana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaža Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20066	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable Minister Sertic, who continues to defend himself with silence, and your draft laws are here in the Assembly, I think that this is a clear sign and a clear sign for the MPs, and God to me and the citizens of Serbia and the respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I think it is a debate on the amendment that Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted to Article 1. The draft law amending the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the right place and the right opportunity to add two arguments to the position that this amendment should be adopted. Dear gentlemen, nowhere in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, nowhere in the Law on the National Assembly, does it say anywhere in the Constitution of our Republic that the Serbian Parliament is a body that is to be adopted and is now directed not only at Mr Sertic, but above all to lawyers from SNS and Mr Martinovic, for example, that the Assembly should adopt something we have named here as a Lex individualis, respected gentlemen. Despite the fact that it does not appear anywhere in these documents, it appears in the announcement that the majority, Mr Sertic, will accept this "lex individualis". The second thing, gentlemen, is nowhere in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, nowhere in the Law on the National Assembly, it writes nowhere in the Constitution of our Republic, nor in Article 98, or in Article 99, that the Assembly is a place where some sort of patch of law should be adopted. Mr Sertic, you have not only submitted this kind of bill here, but the announcement is that the majority, led by the SNS, will vote for it as well. I'm now asking myself, why, dear gentlemen of the People's Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20067	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) The MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic, joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Šutanovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Jovan Marković and joint MPs Marko Đurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snežana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaže Bradić and Ivan Karic, together submitted to the second amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister Sertic, who you continue to defend yourself with silence in the National Assembly and the esteemed president of the National Assembly, it is very important for me now that Mr Sertic may explain himself to us. I want to connect two things here. We have submitted an amendment to Article 2, where we suggest that this article be deleted. How come a minister sends, for example, to our Assembly, during an extraordinary session, an emergency session, now a bill that argues in the following way, and then there's no argument for our argument that it's neither good nor correct? Mr Sertic says -- what I wrote in the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia must be adopted urgently in order to bring the standards for the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia into line for 2015. Mr Sertić, can you then tell us why you did not refer this bill to the procedure together with those 12 other draft laws, when we discussed the Budget Law here, so that the MPs would say - we really need to bring it all together, discuss it, adopt it, and then have a real explanation of urgency. Or, Mr. Sertic, there's one question you haven't answered about this bill, Article 2, which is very important to us here. Mr. Setiæu, what property will the Fund be responsible for its actions? I think you understand why I'm asking you this - because it's been left for the Fund to now correspond to its assets for commitments taken over. What property is that, Mr. Sertice? Here, answer only that question, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20069	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20070	The amendment in the same text that I submitted to Article 2 with colleagues from the DS must now be commented on in relation to the amendment submitted by the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as the amendment says: "Article 7(4) amends and votes – The Fund may, in accordance with the special acts of the Government, assume the obligations of business entities and other legal persons in majority state-owned cases in which guarantees under specific programmes of the Government have been issued by legal persons whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, who are the founder of credit operations, insurance business, or guarantee-making operations, in which, for such commitments, the remaining funds are provided in accordance with those specific programmes of the Government." This amendment, which was submitted by the Committee, compared to the amendment that I have submitted to delete Article 2, brings another dilemma, which is how the list of exceptions is made, to cut short, to turn public debt into somebody's debt, and to which companies dealing with credit insurance or guarantee business thinks according to the specific programmes that are being made. I understand intervention, because these companies exist and we all know that it will be a shame for the budget, but then I don't understand the will to talk about the need for dialogue in principle and when we talk about the need to talk about the subject of running away from it or someone yelling, nobody here is afraid when someone yells, or is talking about other topics entirely. This is a common shame. That budget money won't see who the opposition is and who the government is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20071	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20072	Minister, in order for you to respond to our amendments, you must first answer us how it happened, Minister, that the two laws you delivered in the procedure last week, for this weekend, you will change them both, or this morning, to be changed by the board of directors in agreement with you? So, what can you object, since Thursday felt pretty uncomfortable when I said this government was incompetent, incompetent and all, when you two of the laws you delivered in the procedure for the weekend changed and what have we now submitted amendments to? Some law that was in the procedure last week, and now there's something completely different in the procedure. So, in the earlier bill, you said practically, that those who did not read this bill and citizens could understand, that Serbia's Development Fund obligations would be somewhat foreign and that the state would not be responsible for them, or that they would not enter that hole without a state entry. Now you're delivering an amendment to the Committee, or your amendment, I suppose, where you say that even if the government assesses it for some legal persons they might enter the balance of this Fund. So, on the basis of its ingenuity, the government will choose some legal persons for whom it will guarantee, or assume, obligations. What happened, Minister, for the weekend, and why did these two laws, which you so heartily defended last week, change for the weekend, and what kind of bill is that when the government delivers it, changes it for the weekend, that I'm not talking about the fact that this law, like this one, has arrived by emergency procedure and everything else?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20073	Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20074	Dear MPs, above all because we work on weekends and talk to the Committee members and all the proposals we heard in the previous period and at that debate on Thursday or Friday, which was, we tried to provide some sort of agreement to make every detail better. As far as this is concerned, it is primarily not about future guarantees and loans, but about existing ones, which are already included in fiscal consolidation in the current public debt. So this is all about, that we have the right and the possibility for a particular government programme to make a decision where the Fund will take over these guarantees, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as an exemption for only reasons of a more efficient and better process. That's also explained in the explanation. As far as this first part is concerned, it is now related to future guarantees and future work. So, the Fund can only cover its own assets and assets in the account to cover its guarantees and loans, no longer on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20075	According to the amendment, National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20076	Mr. Minister, just one reminder. The public debate on laws is being held before they enter the procedure at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not for the weekend when they are already in shape suitable for adoption by the MPs. So if you had conducted this public debate, if the laws hadn't arrived by emergency procedure, you wouldn't have had to find yourself in a paradoxical situation if we didn't actually know what we were discussing. We've given amendments to one law, you've changed them for the weekend and you say you work for the weekend, but why don't you work these days? Why do you only work for the weekend? We'd like you to work all week and the citizens to benefit from it. I don't mean you personally, you've come here under the circumstances...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20077	Is this a discussion on the amendment "wipe" or "worktime"?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20078	I don't think Mr. Sertic was supposed to sit in this government, that he made a big mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20079	So you're putting him in the amendment? I mean, you got the word after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20080	I think he made a big mistake because I think he'd see it late, as he found out late that this law was bad, so he changed it for the weekend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20081	Thank you. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this one has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20082	Honored Chairman, Honored Ministers, fellow Members, in Article 2. The draft law amends Article 7 and reads: "Article 7(4) amends and reads - The Fund may, in accordance with the special acts of the Government, assume the obligations of business entities and other legal entities in majority state-owned cases in which guarantees, according to specific government programmes, have been issued by legal persons whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, who are engaged in credit operations, insurance operations, or guarantee-providing operations, with the remaining funds provided for such undertakings in accordance with those specific programmes of the Government. Article 5 is deleted’. Paragraph 2 is amended and reads as follows: “The current attitudes of 6 and 7 become attitudes 5 and 6. ” So, in the light of this amendment, we have had the opportunity to hear that this is a kind of practical release, i.e. discharging the negative effects of all those companies related to privatisation, and that what was given to Article 2 practically refers to certain future budget financing, i.e. guarantees, so that there are no substitutes for thesis in this reasoning of Article 2. What is said here is that there is a part that relates to already issued commitments and guarantees that remain, which are defined by the Development Fund and those guarantees that according to the Government's programmes are in line with the IMF agreement, so that this amendment should essentially include what it once did before with the Fund's development fund and what guarantees have been issued and by the budget itself, because we now have everything that has been a burden on the budget to be a burden on the Fund's assets and that part has been tried to cover this amendment in a certain way for all cases, so for all the social enterprises, for all the companies involved in the privatisation process. Let me also say that the Minister on the Committee has accepted such a formulation of the Committee's amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20083	Thank you. The 3rd Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Ivan Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Jovan Markovic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20084	Thank you. I ask the Minister to consider, since the adoption of this amendment is now necessary, after you have accepted the Committee's amendment, which says it can be a public debt through a special programme and a government decision. Nowhere in this law does this apply to existing obligations. The law when he has a member, that member is valid. Article 3. You want to allow the Fund to have no annual programmes. As an idea, you can talk about her. If you leave it now, there's no way, because the law doesn't say it anywhere, that for future jobs the government's special programs will not be turning into a public debt. I understand the intention, understand and reason, but I'm asking you to think about it. It is now important to pay back the Fund for a year, because then you put it into budget allocations, where there are funds for the already issued conversion into public debt of those involved in insurance, public enterprises, etc. I understand that you know that an amendment like this is necessary so that you can work with the positions of public money that already exists, but it will be in force until we change it. Then it's important that you return the Fund to the annual program. I completely agree that it's a subject of conversation and that it's just as good as three years without this member. With this member, it's good for damage control to be an annual program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20085	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly and the Honorable Mr Sertic and the gentlemen of the Ministry, I now join this appeal by Parliament of the People's Parliament Gordana Comic to consider adopting amendments to Article 3 which we have submitted in the same text, respecting the argument made by Mrs Comic, but also respecting the arguments we have offered for the adoption of this amendment, and I would like to remind you of them, Mr Sertic. You are proposing that Article 3 be replaced by the word "programme" and that the annual programme be deleted by 31 December of the current year for the following year. It seems to us, Mr. Sertice, that you are sending this message that no one has worked and that now it is legal for someone not to work. Contrary to the transparency you are calling for in terms of lawmaking, it seems to us that you are sending a message to this Article 3 in this Bill – unloved, reluctant, reluctant, reluctant and reluctant. So I hate times five, Mr. Sertice and, plus, it becomes part of the law. It seems to us, too, that if it were to be adopted as you suggest, contrary to what your argument is in terms of law making, it's starting to smell a little bit of corruption. However, I must remind you once again of the question you did not answer, even though you mentioned it – how much is the Fund's assets? We understand that the Fund is now beginning to correspond to its assets, that there is a single breakup with the Government, but I ask you to tell us how much this property is, that we MPs know what the Fund can account for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20087	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20088	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, is the property of the Fund as much as the property of the guarantee that the Fund has managed to collect from the economic operators, from those who took the funds from the Fund. So we have TG Borovica, a guarantee of "Vojvodine Development Bank" from 2006 until today, until 2012, given that we received the report at the end of 2012 as a Committee, 148.7 million. "Yugormedia" Zrenjanin, one of the 24 controversial privatisations in 2008, guarantees "Vojvodine Development Banka" 119.25 million. That's all the data we were able to get officially through the Committee in 2013, at the end of 2012. I'm sure the numbers are a lot bigger. The ABS Mine-Transformators 2007-2011, 118.22m, plus 271,77m. What I'm saying is that we have billions and billions of dinars and euros, when you convert, in many companies that have taken funds from the Development Fund, provided guarantees from Agrobanks, Vojvodine Development Banks, and for so much practically damaged the state, because if these guarantees are no longer worth anything today, then you simply have a reduced asset of the Fund for as much practically as that money was taken, and today they're in bankruptcy, when we talk about "Agrobanks". Therefore, if we really want to say how much the Fund's assets are, we are only in the process of establishing that property. When you take all the debts that have been made so far by irrational spending and by giving funds from the Fund for Development and by providing guarantees in which you deliberately took the companies and threw them into bankruptcy, you would have taken those funds out of the Treasury, then you reduce the property of that fund. Thus, you have inadequately the property of the Serbian State. Many of the funds provided by the Development Fund were in combined asset condition, because many of the funds were registered to the Ministry of Finance as a commission, and many of the funds were directly as assets of the Fund and in that part, in the consolidation of the funding should actually have one way in which you will repay those funds. What was given through an agreement with the IMF and Serbia's budget needs to be drafted over the next three years, and you cannot predict on the basis of the annual plan how much money you will pay back. But what is important to say is that through the privatisation procedures that we will only have in this year and in the coming years and the completion of this process that we have committed, of course, in agreement with the EU, we will only then be able to say that the property of a particular fund is worth a certain amount of funding. For the simple reason, that so far, these finances have not been put in one place. They were scattered, they were simply given through certain banks that were at a certain percentage, in a socially defined part, private. I even found here in a report that Hippo Alpe Adria bank was credited to the RS Development Fund in 2010. I think that simply shows the irresponsibility of those who led it, and what is finally stated through the report itself, it is in note that the process of taking over security instruments for the Vojvodina Development Bank and the Business Bank under the Law on the acquisition of assets and liabilities related to the preservation of the stability of the RS financial system, based on the issued guarantees that the Vojvodina Development Bank simply had. Therefore, many of the answers that are being asked today, as regards the Fund, should also be asked by the government of Vojvodina, because it certainly has answers to these questions, how much is the assets of the RS Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20089	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20090	It is very important for us to understand that in Article 3 we define the annual work programmes of the fund. These are the funds through which we have also enabled flooded areas, i.e. companies and companies, small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, special benefits when withdrawing loans. Not only in terms of smaller credit amounts, i.e. interest, but also in security. In that part, it is important that we have the possibility of a wider operation and predictability to some other part. This does not mean government decisions that will be in this previous case, in Article 2, specifically, the government will make decisions on the one hand. This is the sole issue of formulating the program by which credit borrowing will work. So long-term, short-term loans and everything. What I want to point out is, in three months from the moment we restarted the loan through the Fund, nearly two billion dinars were given to economic operators in Serbia. We have more funds and I urge all other businesses to report freely to the Development Fund, no one will ever be identified on the party line again whether they will receive funds from the Fund. Funds for the Fund are intended to develop, above all, production, for long-term crafts, for the use of equipment that is needed and based on this, the Fund is open to every businessman to come and talk on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20091	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Đurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. That the line wants a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 4th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic, and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Ivan Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Ivan Markovic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20092	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Mr Sertic and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, I must now mention three things here, Mr Sertic, because it seems to me that in a sort of special ignorance we will come to the moment of voting on amendments and on this bill as a whole. Is it true, Mr Sertić, that what you wrote, that the Fund for the Development of RS is a legal person who performs credit-approval tasks, issue guarantees, purchase securities of value, acquisition of shares and shares on the basis of legal transactions, including the conversion of claims, as well as other business on behalf of and on behalf of the RS, in accordance with the law? Is that the Fund? If so, can you answer me for what a misunderstanding was about, now I think in Mrs. Tomic's speech. Since here, these changes predict that the Fund is taking on some obligations based on its assets, and I understand Mrs Tomic now who is a member of the SNS, that it is now in the process of establishing that property. Is that true, Mr. Sertice? Does this mean that at this point we don't know what the Fund's assets are and that we're putting in law that despite not knowing what his assets are, he's guaranteeing his assets for certain jobs? So wait, gentlemen, is it possible that this is the case? Here, Mr. Sertice, I'm not from that profession, I allow it to be possible that I was wrong, but logic led me to this question. The second thing, I understand now here, that property is being identified with guarantees regarding the Fund. Well, it's not as good as at point two, Mr. Sertic. I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20093	The 5th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and together by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Ivan Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Ivan Markovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers Mr Sertic and the guests of the Ministry, it is necessary, I think, on the subject of an amendment to Article 5 concerning the date of entry into force of this bill, as a law, to repeat, these questions that I have previously asked Mr Sertic. First, about the irresponsibility in the government's accession, as stated by MP Janko Veselinovic, when he said that a text, a bill of law, had arrived here, that we as MPs here had the opportunity to propose amendments to this text of the bill, and that we now have, thanks to the Committee's actions, a completely amended content of this bill. That means, honored gentlemen, that the government has sent one proposal, and in a moment of work, that proposal has been changed terribly, and now we have another content, so what are we voting on? I believe, Mr Sertic, that there are almost no MPs here who will eventually know what they will vote on. So should this be a picture of one of our joint work on adoption, in my sense, should be the best, most qualitative bill, or law in this assembly. It is necessary once again to ask you a question – is it true, since the day before yesterday, when we had a debate in principle, I have already forgotten, is it true that at this point we do not know what the Fund's assets are and that we are saying that the Fund will guarantee its assets for some of the actions despite not knowing how much this property is now. Please, Mr. Sertice, just to say yes or no, so that we have clear information and answer, that's one of the many questions, dear Mr. Sertić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20095	Thank you. If you haven't talked about the amendment, Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20096	Thank you. The amendment we're proposing to delete is - the entry into force of the next day from the day of publication, and it's important for me here to repeat what will take effect. The law that will enter into force the next day from the day of publication in one member will have a font with which only property can be guaranteed, except for obligations guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia, and in another member, amended, will also have the opportunity to issue public guarantees but under a special programme given by the Government. What's going to come into effect? The problem is that none of the members of the laws that enter into force have a deadline, nor the kind of thing that the guarantee will be issued to, except the oral goodwill I have no doubt about. And that's gonna be a problem. Whenever something is unclear in the law, our common experience is to do harm. Whenever we don't invest enough will to listen to what the estimate is that the damage will be, the damage will be done. The session that follows is evidence. For your sake, the Government is working for us all is important in interpreting, in the sublegal act, the conclusion of the Government, however you will, it is your responsibility to clarify that there are neither deadlines nor the types for which there are guarantees, or the possibility that the Fund provides guarantees, that it is unequivocal, because the experience that, if it can be interpreted, will be interpreted as the worst possible variant of public finances, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20097	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blagoja Bradic and Ivan Karic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the Parliament, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, in accordance with Article 87(5). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 19 January 2015 starting at 15 am and 10 minutes as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. So, in about 7, 8 minutes, we'll start the vote, just to get my synopsis and you too. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I'm asking the MPs to get their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 145 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of Laws on Economic Society since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Business Society Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 against five abstentions – there are no, no four votes, of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 2 which has been submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the bill, the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaža Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Ivan Jovanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 163, out of the 169 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blagoja Bradic and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164, of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićevic, joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Ivan Jovanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Sutanovac and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaže Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—ten, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163, of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićevic, joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Ivan Jovanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Sutanovac and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaže Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—ten, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164, of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Ivan Jovanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166, out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blagoja Bradic and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Decision of the National Assembly on the existence of general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 3. I remind you that the government has proposed that Article 3. The bill has a feedback. According to Article 197(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(4) The Rules of Procedure, when the draft law contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, specifically determines whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I put to the vote a proposal from the Government proposing the feedback of the provision of Article 3. It's a bill of law. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 against – ten abstentions – there are no, no two votes, of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 3. It's a bill of law. The decision of the National Assembly on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the law within eight days of the day of its publication. I remind you it's Article 4. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 against – ten abstentions – there are no, no two votes, of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Business Society Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164 against – nine abstentions – there are no votes, five out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the company law. 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – 11 abstentions – there are no, three of the 179 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 2 which has been submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićevic, joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Šutanovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Jovan Marković and joint MPs Marko Djurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snežana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 168 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićevic, joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Šutanovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Jovan Marković and joint MPs Marko Djurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snežana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 168 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Jovan Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 171 of the 182 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blagoja Bradic and Ivan Karic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 171 of the 182 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Jovan Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Jovan Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 172 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blagoja Bradic and Ivan Karic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 172 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In accordance with Article 196(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I am voting on a proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – 11 abstentions – no, five of the 183 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Having concluded our decision on the amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – 12, abstentions – there is no, three of the total attendance of 183 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement for Credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the Second Phase of the second phase of the Kostolac-Bonth Project Package, which is represented by the Ministry of Finance, as the Borrower and KINESKA EXPORT-IMPORT BANK as the Borrower RLANT as the MEP I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law on the approval of the Loan for a Loan for a Paid Customer for the Second Phase of the Kostolac-B Rower RLANT REACT Project between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as a Borrower and Chinese Export-Import Bank as a Borrower, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 177, no one, with abstentions, voted six out of the 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority of the votes of all MPs a bill confirming the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the second phase of the Kostolac-B ROWER RLANT RROJECT project between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as the Borrower and the Chinese Export-Import Bank as the Borrower. We move to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 15 January 2015, at 10 o'clock and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 108, 114, 115 and 283. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against four abstentions, voted 178 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 19 January 2015, at 10 o'clock and 7 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 107 and 283. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, abstention – there is no, 174 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20100	Mr President, I believe you have injured Article 103 and related to Article 157. Article 103 states that the MP has the right to orally point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, a violation of the session of the Assembly that is under way, directly after the injury has been done. I have called to point out that I believe that the Rules of Procedure have been violated prior to the statement that the joint debate is being held, because Article 157(2) says that the National Assembly may decide to carry out a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, which are conditional or mutually linked to each other, with each proposal being carried out separately. I don't understand and can't understand any connection between the five laws first, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Records, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of immovableity, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Extraparnical Procedure, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Family Law, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Inheritance. I can understand the relationship there, because these laws are the result of a four-and-a-half-month-long law on law enforcement in Serbia, but they have nothing to do with the draft law supplementing the Law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the legal authorities in the war crimes proceedings. In no way are the solutions of these five and this sixth laws linked or mutually conditioned. By adopting such a united debate, you have broken the Rules of Procedure again. The only thing in common for this debate is the capitulation of the justice minister who came today to capitulate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20101	Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, please. You are now violating the Rules of Procedure, if that was your point, and if it isn't, I will respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. From session to session, you repeat it and I have nothing new to tell you, except that you cannot challenge the right of any MP to exercise his right under Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure. Neither can I, nor can you, so it is the right of every MP to propose and parliament to vote. Parliamentarian Aleksandar Jugovic's proposal has won a large majority and we will be working on a joint debate. Did you understand the relationship or didn't you understand the relationship between the proposed laws and that they were being run by a common principle search, that's another matter. It is important that the Proposer used his right from the Rules of Procedure and that it allowed most of its proposal to pass. Here, if you want us to vote on it, as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is your right and we will see if the Rules of Procedure has been injured by a vote. Would you like some? Yes, thank you. First, Ambassador Pavicevic called to see what part of it was.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and the Honorable Guests, I assume from the Ministry of Justice and Honorable Lawyers. I believe that the Presidents were injured by members of 283 and 284. Rules of Procedure concerning the rights and duties of the Members of the People. National MP Zoran Zivkovic applied neatly for this session today, ten minutes ago trying to enter the Assembly Hall, but he was not allowed to enter the Assembly Hall and my proposal, the Honored National Assembly President, was to allow MP Zoran Zivkovic to enter the Assembly Hall and participate in today's debate, compared to the previous session when I called in, we have a certain change in circumstances, gentlemen. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic made a constitutional complaint about two things, gentlemen. (a) for breach of freedom of expression from Article 46. The Constitution of our Republic and under b) for the violation of freedom of expression laid down in Article 10. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Since by my court here in the Assembly as a legislative body we would enter into a paradoxical situation, that it is possible for the National Assembly as the most legislative and representative body in our Republic to contribute to illegality, please, first of all, the President of the National Assembly, that the National Assembly should act as I have suggested and allow Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic to exercise his rights and exercise his duties as a National MP in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20103	Thank you. Nothing has changed since you tried to convince us that the injured Rules of Procedure was compared to the session we had in the afternoon. So, to remind both the public and you that the sentence has been imposed on MP Zoran Zivkovic for insulting the chairman because he told him it was "store", so don't make me repeat your repetition I have to repeat the trail of events. The sentence was imposed by the chairman under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and the Administrative Committee has determined its part of the fine, and the Secretary-General of Parliament, our parliament, is responsible for the execution of the sentence. So those facts haven't changed. Also, I also informed you in the afternoon section and now that he has filed a constitutional appeal and if I am not mistaken, if you have now skipped the provisional measure that we did not get a decision from the Constitutional Court whether they adopted any of what you asked for, we cannot prejudge it. We are also awaiting a decision by constitutional appeal and on a temporary basis and of course we will respect the decision and implement it if it is positive for you. If not, it will be as it was decided by the Rules of Procedure a few days ago, and the MP should consider the next time he speaks, and he has repeated today, just before, that a better word could not have thought of it at that time. So he doesn't regret the work he did that day. 15 minutes ago, here in Parliament. So he's not allowed to come to parliament, but he can't participate in the tide. That's the punishment. Is anyone else bidding on a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20104	Madam President, I'm reporting by article 87 in terms of violation and Article 97 in terms of proposal. Article 97, I would like to ask the Assembly to make a statement on the proposal to double the time for discussion, because of the importance of the topic in question, and Article 87, you are in a position to clarify this situation to the MPs. Article 87 says sessions are held according to the rule from 10.00 to 18.00 hours and that a change in the length of work after 18.00 hours should be presented to the Assembly by the chairman until 16.00 hours during the session itself. Your interpretation that it has been done before and that it refers to this session, someone who is ill-intentioned, and it does not belong to such ones, you might think that today you can extend the work of the session and 21 May 2015. So someone might conclude that. In order for this misunderstanding to be activated in this situation and for you to explain to us what this is about and how we are working at all today when the session is not extended after 18.00 hours, and if this is done, does this mean that we will only work two hours against what we are up against, or we will work at full volume, and besides, I suggest that time be doubled to the parliamentary groups and I ask you to make the Assembly known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20105	No matter what I explain? You said to article 87, it says - by the book, it means it doesn't have to. As a rule, it's from 10.00 to 16.00 hours, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, so there are exceptions. Prolonged work refers to those 24 hours when we're here and we're working. Unfortunately, I cannot extend my work for May month today, but I will also consider your proposal, perhaps there are interpretations of the Rules of Procedure that I may be able to extend my work for the future. I'm more inclined to do it during the day we work. A new session was called in 1600 hours. So, it's not that session before, so in my extension work, take a stenogram carefully, mention both variations. So it also referred to a possible extension of the first session, which we completed in 15.25 minutes by voting on this. So it was about working day and both sessions we covered. If you wish to interpret the Rules of Procedure, you will address the committee responsible. I'm not in charge of further interpretation, except for the interpretation of my actions. So we're going to vote anyway, because you asked without my explanation to vote. (Dejan Nikolic, from the place: Extending time, doubling time. ) Double time put him to the vote, so let's listen to the breach of the Rules of Procedure first, and then we'll vote. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20106	Article 27, Madam President. The judiciary has been blocked months ago. No one's happy about it. None of the participants in the judicial process, nor the citizens, nor the economy, nor the judges, nor the prosecutors, nor the state, nor the lawyers. These laws that are in front of us today are the fruit of compromise, and the SNS wants to adopt them as soon as possible, so that everyone can return to their jobs and everyone can start working. Those who today with some aimless search for violations of the Rules of Procedure, duplication of time, conversation on each subject and each law individually, just want the blockade to continue. I can't understand that desire, not even the SNS. I wouldn't use a word a fellow MP used just now and say this is a capitulation. This is a compromise, and if we're going to use the word capitulation, I think this is the capitulation of the 2011 Public Note Act, the capitulation of the former regime, the capitulation, and here is Mrs. Snezana Malovic, the capitulation of Snezana Malovic's legal proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20107	Article 27 speaks only of the course of the session. Thank you. We'll also come up with a vote to double the time. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session by Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, Assistant Minister of Justice Nela Kuburović, Assistant Minister of Justice Cedomir Backović, Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Justice Ministry. I am putting to vote the proposal of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group's head to double the time of the debate. Did I understand you correctly? Thank you. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, no one, abstentioned – has voted 150, out of the 173 ambassadors present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Records, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of immovableity, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Off-parity Procedure, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Family Law, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Inheritance, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure. Does the proposal's representative, Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, want the word? (Yes) Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20108	Thank you, esteemed president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of Serbian law, I would like to present to you, at the beginning of a united principle debate, the most important solutions that contain proposals for legislation that are on the agenda. First of all, it is about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Records, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport of Immobility, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Immobility, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Extraparnical Procedure, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Family Law, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inheritance. These texts were prepared by expert teams of Serbia's Bar Association and the Ministry of Justice and proposed by the government in an unaltered form to consider the urgent procedure. The passing of these laws is very important, because it will result in an end to the strike of lawyers. In addition to these legal proposals, today's agenda includes the draft law supplementing the Law on the organisation of the jurisdiction of the state authorities in the war crimes proceedings. At the beginning, I will introduce you to the negotiations between the Serbian Bar Association and the justice ministry. As a result of a strike by lawyers who resulted in the suspension of work on 17 September 2014, the Law Chamber of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice educated expert teams at the end of 2014, in order to work together to find solutions for overcoming issues of the Law on Public Records and Laws concerning the establishment of public-booking activity. Between 15 December 2014 and 8 January 2015, a total of 10 meetings of Serbia's Bar Association and the justice ministry's experts, which ended with the signing of the agreement, were held. The agreement agreed to amend the provisions shortly before those laws following an urgent procedure. Although one of the initial legal requirements was to amend the Law on the Authority's signature, manuscript and transcription, expert teams agreed that it was not necessary to amend the existing, or said law. The amendments to those laws were also a prerequisite for proposing to the competent authorities of the Serbian Bar Association to make a decision to suspend the work of lawyers. At the first meeting of expert teams, issues were defined, and these were the following questions: the existence of a public-book record, the issue of mandatory form, above all, of real estate contracts and the procedure of implementation, i.e. confirmation of legal transactions, etc. ‘solamnisation’ by public notebooks. During the work, there was a convergence between the positions of the lawyer and the Ministry of Justice on the need for a public-book system in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the preservation of the Latin type of notaries and the existence of a public-book record as mandatory forms for properly established legal matters. It is agreed that the form of a public-book record must consist of contracts for the immobilisation of business incompetent persons, contracts for the availability of the immovable property of a person with special needs, legal maintenance agreements, mortgages and publishing statements, and only if the parties are to have the property of an executive document with the will of the parties. In addition, it is envisaged that, in the form of a public-book record, a will, i.e. a will, as one of the special forms, can be made in addition to the existing forms of legacy, which are provided for by the Legacy Act. It is further established which legal transactions for which it is prescribed as mandatory form of soloisation, i.e. confirmation of contracts by public notaries, are: immobilisation contracts, contracts establishing real and personal services, mortgages and publishing statements, unless they have the capacity of an executive document, out-of-marriage relations contracts, marriage contracts, life support contracts, grant agreements and distribution of assets for lives and contracts for the transfer of inheritance work. It is precisely this regulation that enables citizens to form legal transactions themselves or with the involvement of lawyers, which will then be confirmed by the public notary by putting together a soloising clause. In view of the numerous legal transactions in the area of hereditary law and family relations, where the involvement of public notaries is necessary in order to solemnise legal work, these legal transactions were considered to be regulated by the laws governing these areas, which also provided for amendments to the Law on Inheritance and Family Law, which are in line with the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Registration. As the amendments to the Law on Public Records provide that the immovableity contract is to be concluded in the form of a publicly confirmed, i.e. a segregated document, it was also necessary to implement in that part the amendments to the Immobility Transport Act. The issue was a question of the process of solemnisation, i.e. confirmation of a private document, as well as the extent to which the public notary may enter into the content of legal work, especially when it comes to immovable transport contracts. When it comes to selemnisation, it is agreed that the public notebook confirms the correctness when the law provides for the confirmation of the document to be carried out by means of a confirmation clause, known as a soloisation clause, which constitutes a public correction and a condition for the fullness of the contract. The solemnization clause confirms that the parties in their presence have read the document, that they have stated that the document is in everything and entirely appropriate to their will and that they have signed it by hand. When confirming a legal transaction document, the public notary examines whether the parties have the legal and business capacity required to take the job and whether they are authorised to take legal action, and the public notary will do the same when a representative or pronouncing officer participates in the assembly of the document, questioning whether the representative, or the pronoun, is in a business capacity and authorised to take the legal work. If these conditions are not met, the public notebook refuses to soloise the correctness. In addition, the public notary is obliged to explain to the parties the meaning of legal work, to point out its consequences and to examine whether legal work is allowed, or whether it is not contrary to mandatory regulations, public order and good customs. If it finds that legal work is not permitted or contrary to mandatory regulations, public order and good customs, the public notebook refuses to confirm the correctness of the decision. This is exactly the kind of intervention of public notebooks that is necessary to exclude absolutely zero contracts from legal traffic. The core of the Latin notary type is the possibility of intervention of public notebooks in order to protect the legal certainty of citizens. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the very essence of the compromise lies in the fact of equal dissatisfaction and one side and the other that participates in the talks. This compromise wasn't easy. It was not easy for one simple reason - such a compromise was due to take place in 2010. The task we had ahead of us is to find the role of public notebooks in a system that hasn't existed for more than seven decades, and that this role is less at the expense of lawyers who have worked and didn't exist for decades. It should not be doubted whether there was another way to resolve this issue in front of the state, but the government in which I am, the party I belong in this way has shown that it has full democratic capacity, insisting that a solution be achieved exclusively through talks and through negotiations, solutions that will be professional and that will satisfy all interests within the limits possible, and in the first place the interests of citizens and the interests of legal certainty both citizens and legal persons. I call on you to support amendments and additions to the Law on Public Records, the Law on Transport of Immobility, the Law on Legacy, Family Law, the Law on Non-parony Procedure, as well as the addition of the Law on the Organisation of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure. Thank you for your attention. I want us to confirm, through a good debate, a deal that has been made in a difficult way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20109	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20110	I'm glad the Justice Minister's capitulation today has received such a ghastly applause from the ruling majority. I believe that applause will also be when the resignation of the minister of justice comes to parliament, because it is the only reasonable result of what we are discussing today. What will happen if the Law on Public Registration comes into force in the way that it is the minister in amendments to the express through the end of August of this year, the day before the work of the public notebooks, what will happen we spoke at that session. At a session held on November 3rd this year, when the minister came with amendments to the Law on Public Registration, the same members he proposes today, we did not participate. We said at the beginning that the adoption of these laws without agreement with lawyers who had been on strike for over 50 days was pointless, that the waste of Parliament's time was at the end of the line of loss and money. How much is a day's session? One, two, three, eight million dinars. Why we lost two days in November of the month by adopting amendments and amendments to laws that had no result and which did not lead to a break in the strike and only today do we have a solution that is consistent with the representatives of the lawyers and we welcome it. Then we said - we cannot discuss amendments and amendments to the law if they are not the fruit of the agreement and we are glad to have this agreement today, but we would like to point out one fact that characterizes the work of this ruling majority since April of the month, when Parliament is established, and that is the fact that it systematically destroys parliamentaryism in Serbia. Serbia's parliament is not a place where laws are discussed, where MPs have enough time to get acquainted with the bill's proposals, to have enough time to consult on the proposed solutions, to hear the opinion of the profession. We have a fact that over 90% of the laws are passed by an emergency procedure in parliament, and that is a fact of all the six laws that we are discussing today. These laws were adopted on Saturday at the government, a session was called for today, Monday afternoon and we remain to believe, and we see that the lawyers did not have much confidence in this government and decided to suspend their protest only after these changes were announced in the "officer of the Office" as agreed and I understand why they think so. But we don't know if these changes are the additions to the Law on the interest of citizens. They may be satisfying the lawyer's interest enough to stop the strike. But what about the citizens? We are representatives of the citizens here. We should make decisions in their interest. We cannot make quality decisions on the laws that parliament is coming to and after 24 hours are put to debate. That's not possible, and it's bad with such practice showing today's session. The amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration have changed today for the sixth time since Justice Minister Mr Selakovic was. They were changed in 2012, changed twice this year by the adoption of some other laws and changed in November 2014, five times so far and this is the sixth time. It says the minister sees this parliament as a place where it will come, something to say, not to listen to any arguments and to adopt those solutions with which it has come, and those solutions are bad. The solutions have resulted in a four-and-a-half-month blockade of the judiciary. We want to ask the question - who is responsible for this, is the minister of justice who has proposed laws that have caused a strike of lawyers, whether the ruling majority who adopted these laws by emergency procedure, without being able to conduct a quality debate on them, or are all of us, as MPs, MPs, representatives of citizens, who should take care first of all about the interest of citizens? A lot has been said not only in parliament that November when a debate was held on the eve of the strike. Now I could read everything the Justice Minister said and ask him - what's changed? I could quote his statements that were supposed to prepare that session, a statement on October 29th, which he said at the time about the strike -- it is now clear that this has nothing to do with the profession, it is a conflict between politicians and tycoon who aim at introducing chaos into the state, a chaos that wants to block the entire judiciary as authorities, which leads to no one, especially Miroslav Miskovic, being convicted. All these accusations that they were lawyers, that we were from the opposition that we were talking about the harmfulness of the adopted laws, Miskovic's servants. I ask the question – does this mean that Miskovic won today? Did you side with Miroslav Miskovic by adopting what lawyers have been asking since the first day of their strike since September and who was right? What was interesting was the fact that all of these laws, although it is said about the need to unblock the judiciary as soon as possible, were brought into force in their transitional publishing provisions that would take effect eight days after the publication of the “Official Messenger”. Today we finished our session by adopting two laws with effect immediately after the announcement. In whose interest is it to continue blocking Serbia's judiciary for the eight days to come, and to strike lawyers, since the decision of the Bar Association to take effect is only to unblock the strike? Look at the decision of the Bar Association, and you'll see. What is important to say about this last law that the minister has not said a single word about, about the Law on the Organisation of the Authority's Jurisdiction in the War Crimes Procedure, is that this is a re-correction of one mistake, the errors of the parliamentary majority that passed the Law on to the public prosecutors by changing the provisions that the mandate of the public prosecutors is to end and predicting that, at 65 years of age, public prosecutors must go after the law to retire. Then someone realized that in the case of Mr Vukcevic, the war crimes prosecutor, that he would be interrupted several months before the end of his term, that he would have to comply with the law, which was adopted here not on a proposal from the government, but on a proposal from the parliamentary majority, but with the amen of the minister of justice. Then we heard from the ruling majority's representatives that the justice minister is one of those who supported these changes, as well as the president of the VCC, various other experts in the field of justice, the VSS and others. So they all suggested something that you're correcting today. We're passing a law that has a name and a name again. This morning there was a "Telecom" law, this is Mr. Vukcevic's law. I am only pleased that some MPs who have been campaigning against Mr Vukcevic and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office for months or years will vote, may not vote, we will see, for amendments and additions to this law. I hope that the abuse of parliament, where the systematic attacks on the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office are going to end. If they have not stopped until now, if this account has not been kept by the President of the Assembly, they will cease the adoption of this law and allow the prosecution to complete very important cases it has been working on for years. Mr. Minister, in his presentation, which I have to admit was short, and I think it took a lot more and better to explain all these changes to us and to explain to us all what was changed through these laws five times before, so now the sixth time it had to be approached by amendments to the Law on Public Records, he said this confirms the democratic capacity of the Government that defends the interest of citizens. Of course I don't agree with that. I think the only way this minister defends the citizens' interest is to resign. I expected today at the beginning of the debate that the minister would inform us that he had resigned to the Prime Minister, that today he would finish this job that caused the problem in the Serbian judiciary, which takes more than four and a half months and wants a clean cheek to withdraw from that post. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and we are left with hope that in the days ahead, we will get a decision from the Prime Minister on the removal of an incompetent and unprofessional minister, who has led his arrogant behaviour to ensure that justice in Serbia does not work for more than four and a half months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20111	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20112	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning, because I didn't want to use it twice, because I didn't want to talk about the same issue twice, I want to say that before the start of this session, a session of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government was held, and that a decision was unanimously taken to propose to the National Assembly that all the drafts of the law be accepted in principle. As far as the JS MPs' club is concerned, I can say that the JS MPs in the voting day will support any proposed amendments and additions to the laws that are on the agenda today. As Mr. Minister himself said, these other five laws, or four, are based on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration, and he himself said that what we have in front of us today, and that I hope, on Wednesday, already in the early afternoon hours of adoption, is the result of a compromise that was made in the working group between representatives of Serbia's Bar of Justice and the RS. When we say compromise, then it is certain that at these meetings, which discussed the proposals of both sides, there had to be a discount, I would say, in the views of both sides, in order to find the most favourable solution for both sides, while at the same time finding the best solution for all citizens in the Republic of Serbia, legal persons, who are four months unable to exercise some of their rights, or to complete the processes before the competent judicial authorities. Here were the damages that eventually occurred or caused by the suspension of work by lawyers, and the lack of judicial authorities, or courts. I'd just like to remind those conceits who are talking about the damage that might exist and maybe it doesn't exist. Let's go back a few years and say what is the damage and whether the damage that has been done in the Republic of Serbia by reforming the 2010 judiciary. Then, if I remember correctly, and I remember, over 900 judicial and public prosecutorial officials remained out of law enforcement, and in the proceedings of the Court of First Instance, the Constitutional Court, exercised their rights, and now, as far as I have knowledge, many of them are seeking compensation for the period for which they are unjustly removed from work. Whether or not they will exercise those rights, it is not my place to judge, because there are organs that will make the final decision. But let's not talk in advance about any damages that have occurred or could have arisen without any tangible evidence. When we talk about these laws that are the result, as I said, of a compromise between one side and the other, I have to say that my knowledge goes so far that there have been much sharper demands both on the one hand and on the other how to solve the problems that have arisen. Fortunately, the Single Serbia parliamentary group welcomes the efforts of the task force and the Justice Ministry and the Law Chamber of Serbia, which they did not accept, I would say, much more stringent demands on both sides and on the other hand and there have been these amendments and additions to these laws that satisfy, according to us from the Unity of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice and the Law Chamber of Serbia. What is important and a few things should be said about the proposed amendments and the addition of these laws, which is that about these amendments to the Law on Public Registration, the right to draw up certain legal transactions will have other entities, primarily lawyers, and not only public notebooks, and not only lawyers, in the extreme case, and that is good, but it will be the public notary that will carry out the solemnization, or put a solemnical clause on that legal act that comes to him for soloisation and confirm that it is in accordance with certain regulations. When we talk about responsibility, since there will certainly be such discussions in the later stages of some respected colleagues and colleagues, I think we should let the citizens of Serbia, in some subsequent elections, and they will, regardless of the wishes of some to come very quickly, come when the law provides for, and that is, if I am not mistaken in 2018, then they will have the opportunity to highlight all possible failures and negativity and the government led by Mr. Vukic and the Ministry of Justice, led by Mr. Selakovic. I am sure that the majority who today supports the Government of the Republic of Serbia and who stands firm behind the Ministry of Justice and Minister Selakovic will also be able to tell you, Mr Minister, as far as JS MPs are concerned, do not mind that they call you to some responsibility and resignation, do not resign. We're the only ones who can replace you, because we chose you, I mean most of you here. You work well at the Ministry of Justice, as well as the entire ministry, and those who want to change the government in Serbia have the opportunity in 2018 to come out with new programmes and win the elections. It is a democratic right, a democratic principle that JS will always adhere to. As regards the objections, and that was also the case with the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, on the entry into force of these laws that are before us today, the honourable Members of Parliament, to inform you that there is already an amendment, and even if there is no Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, that these laws take effect on the next day of publication. So I can also tell the representatives of the Attorney's Chamber that the law will come into force very soon and we will return to normal working frameworks in courts and prosecutors. After all, some may not like it, and they will not like that there has been a compromise between the justice ministry and the Serbian Bar Association, because they do not need to escape from that people's saying, many think that what is worse, we will be better. None of that work, this government, this Department of Justice, these MPs who support the government and the ministers we've chosen, will continue the route. To conclude, the JS parliamentary club will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law and will support all other efforts by the government and the ministry of justice that Serbia is going straight to Europe and that it lives better in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20113	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20114	Dear Presidents, honourable Mr. Minister, respected lawyers, representatives of the Esnaf Association of Lawyers, respected citizens of Serbia and fellow MPs, I am taking the opportunity to welcome all citizens of Orthodox religion and confessions with our greeting – Christ comes forward! My colleagues and respected citizens who are watching this transmission, I will speak very briefly and only of one law, of amendments and additions to the Law on Public Records. I must say immediately that the NS Parliament Club will support the proposals made by Mr Minister, which you have delivered to us, as we have so far supported, because we believe in your work as we believe in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic. I want to tell you a few things about this law. You said and you were right, and we in the NS especially support when at least two people are agreed, let alone if lawyers who are so important to the rule of law and the justice system of this state and the government are agreed, or you are in front of the government. So we support the compromise that you have achieved, we support that the judicial system is functioning, that it begins to work, because it is primarily in the interests of citizens. In that sense, the last thing I said, the citizens' interest, you said there were two sides and of course there were two sides, but there are also third parties, which are citizens. I, Mr. Minister, am on some website today "vera.rs" and finally saw that pricelist that's in points, a notary worker. Well, I'm telling you, as people say, from the field, what the citizens say. They don't care much about who's right here, notaries or lawyers. They're interested in how much it'll cost them, Mr. Minister. Therefore, I will not judge your expertise that is unquestionable. I want to say here, since we as MPs and parliament are in charge of assessing the work of ministers, what I have had the honour of meeting you, I know you as a very honest and honest man, and that is my opinion. So a lot of things have to happen to change my mind. In the name of that, I ask you, Mr. Minister, that in the coming days, whether in the days of the extraordinary session, do you bear it on the first day, so that you do not make such a proposal, let me say so, the pricer, you know more precisely what it is called, that all these services, whether they are done by lawyers, whether they are made by notaries, return to the prices that were before the entry into force of this law. I saw in Chačka, in the city where I came from, with a strike of lawyers, that they keep the panorama transparent where it says, let's say, that some overa was 230 dinars, and now it's 1800 dinars. If it were in the law, and we're all guilty because I feel responsible, because I voted, with confidence as I'm going to vote on this, these laws, or amendments to the laws you've proposed, it seems to me that these prices were the same as when we, the people, we citizens went to the municipality and to the court, that maybe a strike of lawyers wouldn't come. Therefore, I do not dispute their legitimate and legal right to fight for their interests and they have succeeded, but we MPs here are lawyers of citizens who do this for a parliamentary salary, and we do not do any tariffs, flat-rates or I don't know how. So that there are no various doubts, that no one would prove whether it costs this much, whether it costs so much, means that citizens are allowed to go both to the courts and to the municipalities and to lawyers and notaries, and that the price is, let's say, if it's done, let me tell you specifically, if it's a certificate or an over to which parents are obliged to take children abroad on trips to excursions, it costs 230 dinars plus inflation every year and a quiet back. I may be a little underhanded with lawyers, but I don't think there would be any special strike here. I called in several EU countries, where I have friends and relatives. Well, even this president, I think it's called the Association of Notaries of Europe or as it's already called, who here today, a dear guest in our country, who says he doesn't know at all why lawyers and notaries are conflicting, because he says -- they work well together and make a good living. We citizens don't mind making good money in accordance with the law in the citizens' interest just to get that price back before September 2014 when the law came to that. So, it's very easy and very simple and we as citizens will, as we have been going so far, go as to whom it suits and how whoever has trust in either the notary or the lawyer or the court. Let me tell you Ministers, considering, of course, you and everyone who listens and sees this, so I'm not a lawyer, but let's say a citizen is ordinary, in 20, 30 years in my town, the Chačka Court will exist, because the state of Serbia is eternal, while Serbia is a state of eternal existence and a court, and whether that notary will exist and whether that lawyer will exist and whether his attorney's office will exist, we don't know that. Therefore, the people still, Mr. Minister, trusts more the state authority, the court than the notaries and lawyers when they work. That's my opinion, and I've been polling a few hundred citizens, that's what they told me. So, to avoid further debt, since I said I am not too professional for this, I repeat, New Serbia's MPs will vote in favour of these bill proposals that you have submitted here and not only because we support the work of Prime Minister Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we are also a faithful coalition partner of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20115	The word is Dr Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20116	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ministers with Associates, Honorable Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen People's MPs, today we are discussing amendments to the Law on Public Records and the entire set of laws that result from amendments to this law. Right at the beginning, I would like to point out that the SDPS parliamentary group will support the day to vote on these laws. What do I want to say about these laws? The Law on Public Registration is one of the laws of the European agenda that exists in EU countries, but not only in EU countries, but in all countries in our environment, and I have recently had one legal job in one of the neighbouring republics. I did it at the notary, and I can tell you that I have an extremely great pleasure and that it's a success. That notary guaranteed me legal certainty. Therefore, by passing these laws and laws, we guarantee the legal certainty of Serbian citizens. That's what's most important to say right now. As a ruling position, we make it very clear that it was difficult to reach such laws, such changes and additions. It's hard because the negotiations took a long time, but I have to stress, it's been talking. It shows the democratic capacity of this government. It means – sit down, talk and compromise. It's already been said here that it is a compromise. It's bitter in everyone's mouth. No one's satisfied. Everyone has given in somewhere, but we have received one of the solutions that will satisfy Serbia's citizens above all, because because of them we exist, they will satisfy one of the interesting groups, to point out, these are Serbian lawyers, and we will also have one European liquid called notaries, which will do their legal work for which there are. One more thing. In addition to showing democratic capacity, this government has shown something else, its reform capacity. In other words, she is ready to go into reform aware of the fact that there will be obstacles in these reforms and very important, high, that there will be a lot of work to get the best laws. Reforms are to skip obstacles, and to get the best solutions. And that's exactly what this process we've had about the Public Records Act and also the whole set of accompanying laws shows. One more thing. There were reform laws. There'll be more. We're aware of the obstacles we'll have, but we won't give up. The RS government with Alexander Vukic is ready for reform procedures. It won't stop. He'll go forward. Serbia's European path is unquestionable. It will and will be, and we will pass laws that will mean better work, better quality work and everything that Serbian citizens need to be able to live in a normal country, in Serbia that will look like all other EU countries. That's why we're doing all this, and that's why we're going to support the laws that are going to happen in the next period. I have to point out that there are a lot of stakeholders and we have witnessed the fact that all stakeholders in the earlier period knew how to make laws, to make laws in accordance with their interests, to sell state property very quickly and to make some very quickly rich, and therefore there are no consequences. Also, they don't pay taxes, and that's why there's no consequences. It is these facts that the government insists on making a rule of law, respecting the institutions of the system and the adoption of those laws that are from the European agenda of law, as well as those laws that can be applied in Serbia to meet the realities in which Serbia lives. We cannot get a list of laws from the EU, translate them and say we are applying them in Serbia. You yourself know that the law should be adapted to the country where we go, where we live, and slowly and later fix them to be better, better quality, and that in the end, the aim of each law is to protect the citizens of Serbia. By adopting these laws, I have no doubt, and a parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party will vote for them, we will end a very difficult period, and that is a blockade of the work of the judiciary. It's one shift that we have to make further so that the courts just start working the way it fits. In that sense, and even if it is an interest group of lawyers, I expect their assistance in the sense that a deblock of the judiciary is quickly executed and that a significant branch of the state is functioning in the way we expect it to be done. I won't tell you what's changed, what's new in these laws. In his brief statement, the minister said so. Some colleagues have said the same thing. Personally, I think that we are getting laws that may not be what we from the ruling majority wanted, but are laws that will apply, which will help Serbian citizens have greater legal certainty, which is why we are as MPs and respecters. Finally, the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote for these laws in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20117	I thank Dr. Mijatovic. The word has the mandated representative of the parliamentary group, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20118	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister Selakovic, representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, I would first of all like to point out in the beginning a consistent and explicit position of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, which is that we support a complete set of proposed laws that we are discussing today, because this is exactly the kind of support that means valorising everything that's been happening. We've got another valorization. Valorisation of efforts made by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. There are representatives of the ministry headed by Minister Selakovic. There are representatives of the Working Group Mr Backovic and Ms Kuburovic. And we welcome the Ministry of Justice's efforts towards reaching such an agreement. Of course, we also welcome the efforts of the lawyer that has participated in this agreement, because this agreement has led to something that is the basic goal, and the primary goal is to satisfy the citizens' interests. That is why we in the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group believe that this debate should not be exuded by political pamphlets, should not be embossed with pulsism, but our debate should be objective, reasoned and professional. No one here has the moral right to take it out on anything. Because the compromise has done its part, because the compromise we are looking at is one goal, which is the goal of meeting the citizens' interests achieved. There's no one in compromise who can say I've won or lost. Someone always gets something they don't want in relation to what they're looking for and could get. What is most important is that the Ministry of Justice has maintained the course that involves judicial reform processes. The most important thing is that the lawyer made her full contribution, first of all by profession, and I will always affirm that profession. I think the expert groups in their maximum have managed to lead to the goal of a single project. Respecting all that the Ministry of Justice has done, respecting everything that has done to the lawyerry, as one of the oldest professions in the world, as a profession that has lasted thousands of years, which has survived in all legal denials, in all legal systems, we have managed to stand before the citizens and say - citizens' rights are protected. Therefore, on behalf of the Socialist Party Group of Serbia, I define myself by saying - the respected citizens of Serbia, by adopting the proposed laws, your rights will be respected, your powers will continue professionally to represent your interests, and the courts will also make fair decisions under the law. That must be the most important reason this coalition will support the proposed laws in general. On behalf of the Socialist Party Group of Serbia, I would like to express my satisfaction if the amendments that we have submitted earlier on the draft laws we are discussing today, particularly the Law on Public Records, the Law on Transport of Immobility, as well as the Law on Oversight of Signatures and Prescriptions, have helped to reach the solutions contained in the proposed law. This is because our amendments as legitimate legal mechanisms have tried to come up with similar and identical solutions, which we are unreservedly supporting today and in this debate. Let us then explain once again what they have received from these laws that we will undoubtedly adopt. First of all, they were given or better said to retain the right to make their own contracts in free form, that, in the same way, by free choice and by their own initiative, they could hire a lawyer to make such a contract for them, just as it was until 1 September 2014. In order not to confuse the citizens with the meaning of legal institutes of legalisation and solemnisation, I will say that these are the kind of contracts made up of citizens, lawyers, public notebooks only verify and that is a mandatory, or imperative rule that applies to the next contract, and these are real estate contracts, including sales, exchange, gift. These are also contracts that are most often in legal traffic. Then, life support contracts, settlement contracts and distribution of property for the life of the abandoner, and we have to admit that these are the contracts most often made up of and almost entirely made up of lawyers. Marriage contracts, i.e. agreements on the regulation of property relations, marriage and non-marriage partners. Again, these contracts are only certified by public notebooks as so far by courts, and will do so by courts and future according to the provisions of the law until public notebooks are named in the seats of these courts. Such contracts simply cannot be made up by public notebooks, which is why confirming such contracts with public notebooks is necessary to meet the financial opportunities of citizens. Serbian citizens, in addition to the adoption of these laws, and how much they are interested in the amount of compensation they will pay for the services they receive through the overa and the confirmation of the credentials, i.e. public notebooks. By September 1, 2014, citizens paid several hundred dinars for this type of overa, i.e. legalization of the signature, and today they pay several thousand dinars. We in the SPS parliamentary group are confident that the Ministry of Justice as a public notary will establish a tariff that is suited to the financial opportunities of citizens and that such opportunities will be respected by citizens in terms of comparing the tariffs of public notebooks in relation to what citizens can pay. Contracts which may consist exclusively of public notebooks and none other than public notebooks shall be contracts on the availability of the immobilities of persons in business, deaf, dumb and blind persons, legal maintenance agreements, and, on a special request of the party and mortgage agreements, as well as a statement of the party's ability to use this declaration as an executive order, i.e. on the basis of which the enforcement procedure is conducted directly, irrespective of whether it is judicial or non-judicial. So the exclusiveity of public notebooks or as we popularly call them notaries comes down to these categories of documents. These legal solutions cannot or should not be dissatisfied with public notebooks considering that these legal solutions are merely a supported and respected basic objective of the promoter, which is that almost all non-partisan matter is removed from the courts and transferred to the jurisdiction of the public notaries. This also confirms the fact that public notebooks make up public notebooks, wills in the form of public records where the law imperatively regulates that a public notary cannot be a witness to a public notary's legacy, nor can it be someone who will receive any gift or anything else from a public notebook's will, or will. A major step has been made by the Ministry of Justice and the Attorney-General by the fact that public notebooks, according to the proposed amendments to the Law on Transport of immovableity, also confirm contracts on immovableity in which real estate in construction, building buildings, buildings that do not have use or building permit appear as the subject of the contract. This is very important to point out - with the obligation of the public notary to make these particular contractual deficits, because the deficit is the absence of a building permit, the deficit is the lack of a valid permit, they enter as a warning when confirming the ID. Of course, public notebooks have to do so in cases of so-called. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council and of the Council and of the Council and of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council, as regards the application of this Regulation. In this situation, the public notary has the full right and the obligation to refuse a solution to the certificate, i.e. to confirm such an identification. What is also very important is that very qualitative progress in relation to earlier legal solutions has been made by the Ministry of Justice together with representatives of law in the sense of introducing judicial protection of parties against possible illegal work by a public notary. Remembrances for the sake of this, so far the legal solutions have provided that the party's decision to decide the public record chamber following complaints in the proceedings before the public notary. It is now significantly changed in a qualitatively better way, so that, according to the party’s complaints in the case of illegal work, the court will decide and, on appeal of the court’s decision of the basic court, as only the basic court in the first instance can be competent, the senior court will decide. This also establishes a certain control of the work of the public notebook, which is certainly a good solution. On the other hand, the public notary shall not have the right to a legal remedy if the court adopts an objection and issues an order to the public notary to carry out the certificate, i.e. a confirmation of the document. It should also not be forgotten that the courts will continue to keep records of certified or confirmed contracts, given that public notebooks are obliged to forward such contracts to courts. All other rights and obligations of public notebooks systematised as the jurisdiction of public notaries remain in the proposed legal solutions, by further confirming and more precisely defined, starting with the establishment of the party's identity, the establishment of the party's business capacity, respect for party autonomy, the obligation to read before the parties the contract which the parties or lawyers made up and ultimately, what is very important, that the parties explicitly and unequivocally state to the public notary that it is a contract which is a product of their free will. Therefore, it is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the public notary to examine the fulfilment of the conditions for taking legal action, i.e. the conditions for the conclusion of the contract, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to establish the authorisation of such a legal transaction. These are two public notebook obligations that represent a congenital norm that a public notary cannot ignore. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, in support of the bill's proposals, insists that the same laws should not, in any case, be the reason for further confrontation, to further divide in any sense, to further challenge the extra-institutional struggle of anyone covered by this law. Therefore, according to our deep conviction, these laws have not been passed in order for public notebooks to be repudiated. On the contrary, the notary and public notebooks, as we Socialists consistently and consistently pointed out throughout the legislative process, are necessary in the legal order of our country. What is significant in this direction is that both lawyers and public notebooks as two segments must be directed at each other and work on each other exclusively in the interests of citizens. We Socialists in these laws recognise the interests of citizens above all, and through the satisfaction of this interest, we also recognize the important social role of law enforcement as an inseparable part of Serbia's legal order, as well as the role of public notebooks, which make these laws and the first steps of their activities the way in full capacity to be part of that legal order. Our support for the activities undertaken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the judicial reform processes, and the lawyer is an inseparable part of the judiciary, and that vital part without which the judicial system cannot exist and cannot function, is indeed the primary goal of fixing the sick state of our judiciary, because this is the basic prerequisite for the successful opening of chapters 23 and 24 of which our entry into the EU depends. Our support is also in the direction of everything we do today in the legislative process, in which we contribute to harmonising or harmonising our legislation with EU legislation. The legislative process, dear fellow MPs and respected lawyers, is an evaluative process. What does that mean? This means that these laws that we are about to pass today will also be under the prism of watching the expert public, citizens, all of us together, because through their practical application, they will either be recognised or partially changed or, if necessary, change in whole. We in the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group have no problem identifying everything that relates to these needs and yet all but in the interests of the citizens. Simply, in this evaluative legislative process, we are sure that it will also make a contribution to public notebooks and lawyers, as has been done so far, because both lawyers and public notebooks play the same social role. As a lawyer, I have called upon all those who belong to an honorable profession called the lawyership to accept this agreement, in which way we have obtained the conditions to discuss professionally and argued in the Assembly today about the laws that are on the agenda. That invitation has been made by many other honorable and honest lawyers, and I thank them. In addition, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I congratulate you on all the efforts made by the justice ministry and the minister of justice and the lawyer to reach an agreement, to establish a compromise and what is certain, it is certain that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will continue to strongly support the government of the Republic of Serbia in judicial reform processes, which are unfortunately destroyed by those who are now getting it. It is regrettable that they have literally contributed or caused all the problems and caused cancer in the judiciary that has metastasized and that we have to correct today. For this reason, support stands and will therefore be supported and voted in favour of the proposed laws by the Socialist Party of Serbia in the Day of Vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20119	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Selakovicu, distinguished fellow MPs, respected uncompromising civil consciousness and freedom fighters and members of Serbia's lawyer, good afternoon. I have to say that this is one day in which, regardless of the dumping and anxiety that doesn't need to exist, we are in the National Assembly for the sixth or seventh time discussing the set of laws, bringing changes to which we have warned you, ministers, continuously every time in every debate. You're changing the laws the way we suggested. Our pleasure cannot be greater. Our satisfaction cannot be greater, and because of the fact that the Serbian judiciary will finally begin to work after more than four months of blockade. Citizens will be happy because they will finally be able to carry out jobs of their own interest and to come to the necessary justice in Serbia. We are finally entering into something that you have tried to paint through the pink glasses and show the state of things the way it isn't, which is, it's good, listening to these MPs from the SPS and the SDS, I have to agree. Thank God there was no SPS and SDS in the previous government, otherwise we would have managed to solve these problems sooner. They weren't in any previous government. You, Mr. Selakovic, were not in any previous government, but you were in the Assembly six times discussing these laws. Every time, respected citizens, when we discussed these laws, when the notary began to obtain its outlines, when you tried through the draft regulations to shape their powers, when you tried to establish their relationship with the lawyer, when you tried to strengthen the legal order in Serbia, every time we showed you what was wrong and what was wrong, why couldn't it be done like this, why didn't you listen to Serbia's Bar of Lawyers, why don't you listen to people who are part of Serbia's legal order? We asked you to leave the path of spite, stubbornness, political blindness, lack of desire to compromise and find a solution, you mocked us, you insulted us, you rejected every proposal. You didn't want to talk to lawyers for months. You didn't want to talk to us about the amendments, you didn't want to listen to the proposal and everything we asked for, you didn't want to see life in Serbia with real eyes. You didn't want to see what the courts and loose objects look like. You didn't want to see brakes that are worse than anything the Serbian judiciary has seen since 1945. You didn't want to see that you're taking away one profession's right to work, and you're giving it to another through a monopoly position, you didn't want to hear that the Constitutional Court is magically and strangely silent, that it won't say anything. You didn't want to see lawyers protesting for months and yelling at those people from the streets of our cities? But what did you want? You mean we're Miskovic's mercenaries, you mean to say that we support tycoons and political structures behind lawyer protests? Today, Minister Selakovic, above the Serbian Parliament, the white flag of your political collapse is proud. Today is your day of defeat. Today is the day for the citizens of Serbia to rejoice once more with the skill, and that is news of your resignation. You must leave, Minister Selakovic, from the position of the minister of justice. I'll explain everything. You must bear the consequences. One -- deafening the justified request of Serbian lawyerry, under two -- ignoring the National Assembly of Serbia and adopting six times different amendments to the law without public debate and without preparation, under three -- doubting that there is pressure on the Constitutional Court in Serbia, under four -- because of insulting the entire profession and political parties that criminals and tycoons stand behind them and under five -- because you finally came to the same positions, pressed by a justified protest of these people. My question to you, if you don't see that white flag, and I see you don't see it, who won today, Minister? Did Miskovic win or did lawyers and legal professions and people of integrity and truth win? Whether Miskovic won or the truth and the lawyers won, you must answer us. If Miskovic won, you must leave, because you have failed under Miskovic's pressure. If they beat the lawyers and the truth, then you must leave, because for four and a half months, you have kept silent about what was undoubtedly evidence and what you accept today. Then you're not even able to perform this function. These are objective questions raised through the prism of truth to which you should give an answer, without passion, without anger, without conflict and without contention. Tell us today here and before the representatives of the Bar Association and in front of the citizens of Serbia who are watching this, how in three months from today, you can go out in front of anyone in public, talk to anyone without someone respecting what I told you today. Your political credibility is the tiniest so far, Minister, and you know very well, that it is not only a criticism that the halls of the Faculty of Law cry for you, Minister, that students complain that they do not have one of the best assistants in the history of the state and the right, that you as such should stop depriving our youth of your knowledge and I say it without irony. You have not shown yourself in the domain of the judiciary, but you have shown yourself in the domain of education at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. Go back to your profession, there won't be any other fighters and others who will remind you uninterrupted of this cardinal error of your political career. You've convinced us that lawyers have no idea what they're looking for is retrograde, anachronous and there's nowhere in Europe, and, behold, we're adopting these very things today, all of what we've been asking you to adopt for months today. Do you ministers think that everyone in Serbia has the memory of a rainworm? Our duty, among other things, is to deny it effectively. This is one of your political defeats, but the victory of Serbian lawyerry and the victory of the profession of truth and justice and the victory of those who persisted and gave hope to Serbian citizens that they could fight for the better tomorrow in Serbia, ruled by Aleksandar Vukic. These people have shown that they can, and that's why they have every honour and every recognition. I wouldn't interrupt the strike, I would require that condition to be fulfilled, and that's your resignation, which is clear from my exposure. I would also never leave this congregation in your place without answering this question. You simply, distinguished Minister Selakovic do not have the opportunity to answer here in any other way than that, either won by Miroslav Miskovic or by lawyers, truth and justice. If there's one answer, you have to resign. If there's another answer, you have to resign. The thing is so simple that no spin, no nonsense we've heard here, you watch what they're going to try, respected citizens to convince you – so we would do this, but the former government didn't want it in 2011. How long do you think you believe that anyone in Serbia believes in all the nonsense you bring out? I told you nicely, if the SPS and the SDPS were in the government before, this certainly wouldn't have happened, would it? And then you're... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20121	Please, Mr. Stefanovic, don't argue with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20122	So, I didn't mean anything by it, I don't insult anyone. Now, imagine if they were in the government, this would have been solved a long time ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20123	That's what the citizens will interpret from your speech. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20124	I'm not surprised by the majority, you know, I mean the biggest party in Serbia. She didn't participate in the previous government. I mean the one before, before, before, before, three governments of Alexander Vukic. I think that you ministers as someone who faced the real problem of our legal order, with the voice of the old law enforcement profession that was always free, faced with the arguments that they gave through the means of public information that you first ignored, and then attacked, and then insulted those people, and then introduced a conspiracy theory that was your favorite sport, and then when we said something about it from the opposition, you found it, here they are, the opposition, the lawyers, Miskovic, the conspiracy, to tear down Vukic. Did we then manage to do it through that conspiracy, Minister Selakovic, or sooner it will be that even you with all the controlled media couldn't hide the fact that our citizens are suffering for over four months without justice, that our courts are standing, that the objects are piling up. Who will make up for the damages of Serbian citizens because you didn't want to deal with lawyers four months ago, who's going to pay what these bills, amending the law, didn't accept four months ago? Who's going to make up for the damages to people who've been giving legal services more expensive to notaries for the past four months? Who's going to make up for lost time and lost profits, driven investors out of a country nobody's going to invest in since the judiciary doesn't work for four months? You drove Mubadal, Al Dahra and other capital projects, Mr. Vukic, because if you had done a job with the judiciary, what would prevent a foreign investor from coming to Serbia? So now I see the connection in it and now I see what you are. You're a subversive element in the Wolf Government. Now I understand who Minister Mihajlovic was talking about, not bad, what?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20125	Mr. Stefanovic, please respect the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20126	The smile on the face of Minister Selakovic shows that he is not angry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20127	Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw it away. Mr. Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20128	I understand. Mr. Becic, it's called irony, you know, not offensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20129	If you're not focused enough and you don't know what's on the agenda, I'll read the agenda now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20130	I talk about the agenda all the time, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20131	Please talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20132	So I have one thing to add. Ensuring certain, since you are minors, there is one significant part that you have not fulfilled in relation to the negotiations with the lawyer, but one is, it is that contracts are made for persons with special needs, persons who cannot see or speak or have other problems for which they are of course not to blame. In my opinion, you bring these people into an unequal constitutional position and you know very well that this can be a big problem, we will try to change it through the amendment. You can't let them process notaries, and the rest of them can lawyers. I'm glad that in the end we all got together in the same river of truth and all the tributaries came to the same place, exactly as we predicted, and all the ministers will eventually come to the same place. The same outcome is that he and his, in a negative sense, who made Serbia and Domanovic the current thing and Domanovic's most powerful writer, will eventually have to go politically into the history where they belong. You are the Ministers of Selakovic's prevailing wind of freedom in Serbia, with your resignation, that freedom will never be stopped again, please resign immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20133	Nice wishes. The word has a People's MP... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. ) I apologize, before you receive Mr. Babic's right to reply, he has the word Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20134	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with great joy, I always come to the National Assembly, I participate in all the debates, and I gladly represent the Government of the Republic of Serbia as its representative in considering legislative proposals, even more with full attention, and I rarely enjoy the presentations of distinguished fellow Members of Parliament... (Nobojsa Stefanovic, from the place: Like now.) Like right now, just like that. One word is said, or one word is said which is... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Crucial. ) Crucial, and it's called irony.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20135	Mr. Sutanovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20136	I thank the chairman. Mr. Sutanovac is obviously very constructive unlike the party he belongs to, which showed the peak of destruction by ruling the Republic of Serbia through all its forms. Why the irony, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs? How else to interpret the request for the resignation and challenge of someone's legitimacy if this is referred to by a party representative, who, with only 6% of the votes won, holds the hostages of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in one part of its territory in the AP Vojvodina. You can imagine 6% of the votes won in the election, a party that couldn't say in one of the Lucians to collect enough signatures to go to the polls, let's say that. You see, it is such a party that is saying that everything in Serbia, which is saying that everything is going down in Serbia, calls on the government of the Republic of Serbia to be held accountable, the government of the Republic of Serbia, which received unequivocal support from citizens of the Republic of Serbia in March last year in the elections, the government of the Republic of Serbia whose main bearers are receiving unequivocal support in all elections in the Republic of Serbia. The political collapse and the white flag of the political collapse has been standing outside the Banovina building in Novi Sad for several months, but the political blindness of those sitting in it seems to contribute to the absence of this. Since someone who is politically blind can call someone else political blindness, it is still unclear to me, but not to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think in my brief concise presentation, I made it very clear, in the discussions between the attorney and the ministry, in the talks that were to be conducted four years ago and which, unfortunately, did not happen then, there is no winner. We are equally dissatisfied with those of us who represented the ministry and colleagues who represented the lawyerry, but that is exactly the signal that there has been a compromise, because there is no one more satisfying in the compromise than the other, but satisfaction is in the interest, of general interest, of the citizens. Without passion and no anger, as distinguished counterpart Stefanovic said, I am very happy to respond to the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia every time, and there was no ignoring here, there was no deception here, as you said. Whether there are criminals and tycoons behind certain politicians, it has long been clear in Serbia. Had it not been in the past in Serbia, Serbia would have made much easier, much faster and much better progress. Anyway, did we contribute to the investors' departure? If that were the case, we probably wouldn't be able to solve the problem we inherited, and that's the biggest problem of the Smedereva Jelizara, exactly the one whose positive epilogue we're approaching. If that were the case, we wouldn't be able to solve the problem of the coastal car factory, which hasn't been solved in a good and satisfactory way for decades. Of course my smile on my face will always indicate that I'm not angry. The little one and the weak one should always be respected, patted on the shoulder and not suppressed. I always remember with joy those words that we, as the opposition, said that we would keep the opposition as a little bit of water on our palm, and that's exactly what I can do from you with a smile on my face to hear, shows it. With a smile on your face, that's right, because we're going to solve problems, even when they're problems resulting from someone's poor work, abandoned condition and disorder. Anyway, take a look at it politically. You see, they have three masts in front of Banovina next to those beautiful six medallions of the kings of Peter and Alexander and four Serbian dukes standing above the main entrance, get ready for resignations in Novi Sad, make it easy for the citizens of Vojvodina and the citizens of Serbia, and only then come into the position to share political lessons on political responsibility. These laws, as one of the respected colleagues of the predecessors said, are not what most people wanted, are not what the lawyer wanted, but are laws which, unlike the inherited law, give certainty in a certain form of stability. It is true that the government has shown this its democratic capacity by having the conversation come to a solution. That these solutions are in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, they are, and they will also show this application of these laws. How important what is said is always important and who is speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20137	Thank you, Mr. Minister. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20138	I'm referring to Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly. I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure because you haven't prevented the insult of the MPs, above all, and then the insult and the lawyer, especially the lawyer who follows here with dignity and listens to the debate. As for us in the SPS parliamentary group, we are too happy that we are not participants in what was happening at the Justice Ministry in time, when all these problems were generated. Unfortunately for the citizens, we weren't present where we were supposed to be, to make these things better. But, on the other hand, don't insult your lawyership, at least those who have now pointed out you, and those insults are harsh. We are here on the verge of achieving what means valorising the agreement, which means passing the law. Is this what the military is saying, which the opposition has put forward, the deepening of the gap between the Ministry of Justice and the Attorney General? If it's an attempt, then that attempt will not go away, because the lawyer is consistent in her demands and principled to accept these laws. That is why the lawyers and their representatives have signed this agreement, and the representatives of the Justice Department know it. For this reason, we simply cannot allow political or professional manipulation. There was even a rough qualification said here – that the lawyership is an interest group. It is not, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an interest group, a lawyership is an honorable profession that lasts thousands of years and will continue, while there are systems and while there are legal denials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20139	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, because I believe that in the presentation and in what it says in today's day and opposition and positions, citizens will judge it, and citizens will not forget. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (No) The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20140	I would like to, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Minister, that the MPs of the former regime with the same ferocity and love spoke of the same barrage when the Law on Lawyerry was passed in 2011 in this House Hall. I wish that with love and applause they had welcomed lawyers, and not treated them with politics and the way their hands spin. I wish with the same love, the representatives of the former regime acted when they convened in the past the amendment that I submitted, and the SNS parliamentary group and the parliamentary majority adopted, so that lawyers remain in the flat-rate tax. You were against it back then. It's against the law, against the amendments I've proposed, because that amendment comes from the SNS. If you're asking about the damage that has been done over the past four and a half months, I'd like you to tell us what's the harm of judicial reform that no one has said a positive opinion about? What's the damage of 800 judges and prosecutors who are out of a job? What's the harm in getting the judge and prosecutor's job based on a letter from the municipal board of DS of the Vlastoins? So he says -- that he would be a prosecutor, except for being honest, valuable, on the part of an unsuspecting one, but he rejected all criminal charges against the officials of the DS Vlasotince municipal board, and must have appointed him prosecutor. What's the harm of things like this? Here, it's signed by the president of the municipal board and president of SO Vlasotince. They're paying the halls of law school, perhaps, for Mr. Selakovic, for expertise, for knowledge, for correctness. But the foreign ministry also cries for some, but because of nepotism, not because of expertise.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20141	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know what, crying and tears are reserved for the prime minister. I wouldn't bring it up here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20143	Mr. Stefanovic, you know very well why you received the replica and I ask you to proceed in that direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20144	So, Mr. Selakovic, there is no strike in front of the government of Vojvodina. In front of your Ministry, the strike lasted over four months. I understand your political attempt to avoid responsibility, but I think we've all agreed here, some want to admit, some don't, that you essentially don't have any more political space to defend indefensible. It's just, you've had four months, you've accepted almost all the demands, almost all the demands, I'm undermining, a lawyer, and you have to resign. Or were you right all along, but you were playing with the public of Serbia and you didn't want to meet them with what you saw from the beginning that it was necessary to implement yourself, so that those laws would be better? You know what, you were talking about "The Irons," about FAP, some things that have nothing to do with this topic. As if someone doesn't want to, we all want to get into Priboj and start doing "The Iron" and that's perfectly normal, we're all citizens of this Serbia and we want the best. We'll see what it looks like. That's another thing. And you know what, when you say - Little should be respected and respected, I don't understand why you are now acting as mayor of Belgrade's argument? What do we have to respect and love the Little One? We respect him. I don't know why you're bringing it up now. What is certain, when you say – as a crown argument, you can't ask for my resignation because we have six percent. Your responsibility, having 100%, has not been reduced by one millimeter, especially knowing what happened to the Serbian judiciary since you were minister. Have you and 200 percent, as far as I'm concerned, but after such guffs and mistakes, you just have to leave. Believe me, I prefer my 6% than all your size.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20145	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20146	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have nothing left to do – do I need a strike before the government of Vojvodina? If it's necessary, right now, to know, he can be organized very quickly, but, as I said, this government has democratic capacity and that's what hurts some. As one of his colleagues said, it seems to someone else's fault that we were fellow representatives of the Serbian Bar Association and we from the Justice Department agreed. Someone seems to be very guilty. You see, the lawyer represents an important esnaf. We represent the citizens and the Republic of Serbia. I just don't know who Bojan Pajtic represents and his click in Banovina? That's not clear to anyone. It is something called “contradictio and edecto ” in science. Watch out, a party with such a premonition, who doesn't behave like that? Come politically, gentlemen, take a look. You see, a long time ago, there was a white flag flying in front of the Banovina Executive Council or the District Government building. It's been a while, come to your senses. Don't usurp the government anymore. That's the point. As for my personal responsibilities, of course, as someone who always respects the National Assembly, you have the procedure to raise the question of my responsibilities, so take it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20147	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20148	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107. A representative of the main opposition party, if we can even say it's opposition, since they already have 15 years of men who are harassing and arching the assets of the AP Vojvodina, said the tears are reserved for one man.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20149	This is more of a replica. Article 107. You must speak of the violation of the Rules of Procedure committed by the Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20150	You should have warned him when he said the tears were reserved for a man, a man who was in Kosovo and Metohija...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20151	However, I wasn't the chairman, I can't allow it, I have to warn you, as well as anything, that we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Article 107 is talking about something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20152	If I can just finish? I would only refer to the gentleman across the street one piece of information, that Aleksandar Vukic, as prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia, was in Kosovo with his people and fought for the rights of the Serbian people, while the president of the shadow government was in the shadow of Krusevec, but why did Mr. Bojan Pajtic never go to visit the people in Kosovo and Metohija?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20153	Please, speak to me, no one to replicate. I'm gonna have to take time away from the group. I'm not just talking to you, I'm talking to you in total. Please speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20154	All right, Chairman. And you noticed that Mr. Pajtic was in the shadows in Krusevec, while Mr. Vukic was completely transparent in Kosovo and Metohija for the tenth time in the past two years, while Mr. Bojan Pajtic, the chairman, was not allowed to leave once. Once again, the question – who is the opposition in Serbia? Do we have, if we have, the Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina, who's been expropriating assets for 15 years, formed a Development Fund to fund the DS...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20155	You've completely entered the line. I'd give it to you if you asked, believe me. Article 107 speaks completely of something else. I agree that all speakers must respect the dignity of the National Assembly. It's impossible for the chairman to keep an eye on that, it's absolutely impossible. If you want to vote on it, but I don't think Igor Becic hurt the Rules of Procedure, because he can't assume what all the speakers can say and that he's just sitting there and reacting to it in a second. If you want, we'll vote. It relates to the violation of the Rules of Procedure committed by the predecessor. (Alexander Jovičić, from the place: No. I thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20156	Thank you, Your Honor. I also believe that a injured member of 107 was in the part of the presentation of Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20157	That's impossible. Rule 107, first of all, was a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20158	Madam Chairman, I must remind you of article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20159	Don't remind me, just call where the injury was.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20160	Article 103 says the MP has the right to point out an injury to the president of the National Assembly immediately after the injury. I answered immediately after the presentation of Minister Selakovic. You gave the other MP your word...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20161	Because he called before you, you'll respect that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20162	He came forward and felt that the Rules of Procedure, namely the dignity of exposure to Mr Stefanovic, was injured. I'm talking about Mr. Selakovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20163	It was a replica of what the previous MP who was also in the political mile, rather than in the professional part of the law, said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20164	I believe that the Rules of Procedure, or the dignity of the National Assembly, was injured in the presentation of Minister Selakovic because he was called here for riots. He said Mr. Minister that there was no problem in organising protests in front of the Vojvodina Banovina, if necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20165	Strikes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20166	I believe it is an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, because the MPs here were condemned when they allegedly called on the Ukrainian or BiH script. That's what we heard in the debate today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20167	When? You are now calling for this exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20168	When Minister Selakovic, a minister from the government of the Republic of Serbia, does the same, you remain silent. I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you had to warn the minister that he could not speak in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have a very important topic, a topic that needs to solve the problem in the country, which lasts four and a half months. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20170	I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20171	Don't beg me. There's no need to beg me. The Rules of Procedure are either respected or disrespected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20172	I'm asking you to lead the discussion on the subject, not the accusing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20173	Sure. I appreciate your objection. You've applied to article 107. It also states in its Rules of Procedure that one after the other is unable to call for the same member's injury. You know that. But you don't care, you like to chat with an MP after me, which is humiliating not for me personally, but for Parliament, that you just want to say something, you don't want to hear a reason at all. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I listen to you all the time.) You're not listening. You're not a superman. You can't listen to me and me. I appreciate your objection. We'll vote on the injury. It's the same tradition here, it's done, it's not done, but I respect your remark, and now we're just gonna talk about the law. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20174	Thank you. Today is God's Day. First of all, I would like to congratulate all Christians on their great religious holiday with the greeting of Christ. Mr. Minister, SPO and DHSS are rarely subject to amendments. In a set of these laws, we have not submitted any amendments, because we have greatly respected all the efforts that have been made in the application of the Law on Public Records by the Ministry of Justice and Lawyers. Also, I think that we should be absolutely honest and say that these are revolutionary changes in our legal system and that, since we have analysed public records in parallel legislation and in the former Yugoslav republics, we have seen that there has been no law on public notation that has been immediately applied and functioned perfectly. That was impossible. I see today that many critics of the Law on Public Records only two or three years ago have forged that law into the stars. That's why I think we should all be very honest. The last time you were in the House of the National Assembly, I said that it was responsibility for what this law looks like to me and that no one could predict all the problems that could have arisen in practice. What is also a lack of those who are criticising this package of extremely important and good laws today, it is their final statement whether they will vote for these laws. I haven't heard a single expert remark about the text of the laws that are on the agenda today. That's why I think these laws are very good, and that's why we're not going to submit a single amendment and we're going to vote for everything. Now, what were the problems with the introduction of public records when trying to introduce public records in the 30s of the last century in the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia? It has simply not been applied in many parts of the country for a number of objective reasons, above all, the absence of catastras and regular records of immovable properties. Seventy-seven years of discontinuity that this country has, many think that we will correct the law in some area, that it will function perfectly. What I and I from the SPO kept saying after October 5th, I will repeat to you, Mr. Minister. We know that the creation of world law was created in Persia, so through Greece, Rome, to great Germany, and that the great lawyer and philosopher Hegel said that in law enforcement and law-making should take care of many things, not only of norms, but of the culture of a particular people, of economic development, of ordinary law, of the mentality of a particular people. It is certain that the adoption of these compromises, which are indeed to be welcomed, took account, above all, of the fact that three very important professions: lawyers, notaries, judicial professions and the Ministry of Justice's roof are a partner and these solutions are offered. On the other hand, the extraparnical procedure is transferred almost entirely or entirely to public notebooks, which is once again a major revolutionary change. Secondly, the exclusive jurisdiction of notaries is quite narrowed down and notaries as one truly honorable profession, which will be absolutely permanent and very important, and which requires, in addition to knowledge, expertise, that citizens have absolute confidence in it, yet to shine in full glory. But what I also want to give you attention to, and I would like to ask you to discuss it, some colleagues have talked about it, that is to make sure, first of all, about the tariff of public notebooks. Without a hint of jealousy for any profession, I think a multiple increase in tariffs, public notebooks compared to the same jobs that the court has done is absolutely inappropriate, primarily the economic strength of the country and the economic potential of our inhabitants. What is also, above all, in the countries in the environment, the countries of the former Yugoslavia created by the introduction of a notary system, these are the initial children's diseases. For example, nobody said that, many public notebooks, not only their own fault, but because we lived in an unsettled system, in a party system, in a communism where it became absolute and internal chaos systemically from public documents, from unresolved property-legal relations, from the existence of social property that was "charding in heaven or on earth" etc. Many have gone to prison after several months of their work. It is a very responsible profession and the notary has great responsibility and indeed this profession, I think it will be when it fully enlives in our system to be one of the most respected professions and that when the word notary is mentioned, as today is an extremely honorable profession of a lawyer or a doctor, or a professor of the university, with full confidence will go to the notaries who will absolutely present to him all the things that need to be presented when making a legal deal, certification statements, certification of the will, etc. Is this, above all, following laws that concern not only the literature, is the Law on the Transport of immovableity above all, that some very important changes have been made? I'm sure they are. So, we only had until two or three years ago over 30,000 citizens who were cheated because the state didn't function and the criminals who multiplied in the 1990s, and especially after October 5th that with silence, the mumbling of the state and its institutions and the police and the judiciary and the prosecution, sold themselves several times one immobility, first of all apartments. After 10, 15, 20 times, with the blessing of the state, such criminals did these unworthy jobs. They turned black in many families and missing families most often without any responsibility. What is now the obligation of public notaries is to immediately deliver contracts for the transport of immovable property to the competent court for the purpose of keeping records, to deliver to the IRS, to deliver to the public property of the public defender, who may request the appeal of the immovable transport contract, which was in public property. Then, protection and parties from the unconscious or irregular work of the notifiers, by declaring a complaint to the competent court or by making a decision on the objection, will file a complaint and a great responsibility to the judge that within very short periods of eight days or after the appeal, but 15 days after the appeal they decide on the requests of the parties, it is something that really establishes a high degree of legal certainty. On the other hand, what our parliamentary group has been asking for is that all statements, documents, contracts do not have the character of public documents and that it is left to the parties, the good and the bad sides of a particular legal job, the possibility of a choice. These changes have been made, and we, I say, fully support it. The same are the changes as to the Act of Out-of-Parking Procedure, then Family Law, the Law of Inheritance. These are changes that are very important to our legal system, and since a very honorable profession called dictatorship is primarily represented by respect for the constitutional and legality and interests of one party, we must stress that positive difference between lawyers and notaries, notaries must also take into account the respect of positive legal rules, but also of equal respect for both parties' rights and interests, if two parties appear before the notary. It's something that has and sublimes within itself and the Institute of Legal Assistance. Many public documents make what we have defined as a preventive verdict, often leaves the parties with the option of choosing whether a right will be made public in order to be a means similar to that of judicial execution, etc. What I say will have a major impact on legal certainty. I'll say one more thing about a subject rarely mentioned. It's a change in the War Crimes Prosecution Act. We are now a small political party and I think that everyone in Serbia's political life can be transferred to a certain kind of inconsistencies, but I think that the SPO was really at a time when the head was lost, when due to a certain policy, which is now fortunately the dominant policy in Serbia, the SPO at a time of mass hysteria led a reasonable policy. One such SPO policy was an absolute opposition to all types of war crimes and ethnic cleansing at a time when unfortunately it had a certain kind of popularity in Serbia. On the other hand, our coalition partners at the time were for marketing reasons, because it was popular, bringing political points, knowing that they were going to Pale, eating with grilled bulls on the grill, boasting that they fired some shots from cannons at Sarajevo, and burning some flag in front of the US Embassy. This was never done by the SPO, and despite the fact that the government at the time advocated that we disappear politically from our political scene, unfortunately some of our advisers have advocated it. I can now ask the political public, is it better for Serbia because the SPO is now with the strength it is? Without any claim, to be a voice of security, I think that with a lot of responsibility and a lot of respect for what we were doing at a time when it wasn't popular, we should say that the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office was doing an extremely difficult and unpopular job, that it belonged to a better part of our prosecution and that we were one of the parties who stood up for the establishment of the Special Court for the fight against corruption and crime and the establishment of a special prosecutor's office and the War Crimes Court. I think when the government has a general hysteria, it's the hardest thing to do. That's why I asked the ministers last time, to see that there was hope to reach a good agreement with the lawyers, as some small vote of conscience on our part, to have the job done by the end, because I know that the negotiations were in full swing and our great pleasure is that they are satisfied with this agreement both sides. What is our greatest satisfaction is that Serbia's citizens will benefit from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20175	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group Biljana Pantic Pilja.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20176	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, fellow lawyers, today we have a set of judicial laws that are the fruit of the government's agreement and legal profession, one of the most respected professions, and these proposals of the law will support the SNS in the voting day. The main amendment to the proposed Public Note Act is that the public record will no longer be mandatory, except for contracts concluded by a commercially incompetent person and a detailed procedure to confirm the documents so-called. selemnisation. These bill proposals are primarily in the interest of citizens, because one profession, a lawyer, will suspend work and return to court. You mentioned the minister of justice's capitulation. No, this is about an agreement between a lawyer and a minister. There's a compromise here. In particular, a constructive debate has been shown to produce results. I will quote Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, who said - that we are constructive does not mean that we are lenient. Now, that was done in a specific case. The reforms carried out by this government, led by Alexander Vukic, are difficult and necessary and it is clear to everyone in this country. The Law on Public Registration introduced a new profession, a profession of public notebooks, and came across the expected resistance. Expected, but not to this extent. We can discuss and wonder if this kind of resistance was justified. It is undeniable that the body of these laws was needed and that by adopting these laws, Serbia was in step with other EU member states that had long introduced the profession of notaries. I believe that the government and the resolution ministry are headed by Minister Selakovic, and I will make my personal position, the best justice minister the Republic of Serbia has had in the past few years, if not decades, have shown that they have a good intention and that the will of citizens comes first and that it is only important when they have spoken with the lawyer profession. This is where the resignation was mentioned. The Minister of Justice's resignation is required, but I would only refer to the 2010 judicial reform. It is little to say that it is not moral for those who carried out the reform in 2010 to talk about the cry of a lawyer, as it is said. Did they then hear the cry of the judges chosen, or not chosen without criteria, who had lost their jobs? You're talking about damage. What harm did it result from some judges not being elected? Let's talk about the damage caused by the judges suing the Republic of Serbia for the way you chose them, and we can also talk about the damage that has been done to manage the Vojvodina Development Bank and others. To go back to these bill proposals. One more thing, one of the opposition speakers said it was a false dilemma whether he won this one or that businessman or the truth and justice. As one of my colleagues said, when it comes to SNS, truth and justice always prevails. Let's be clear, colleagues from the former regime. Minister Selakovic and the government of the Republic of Serbia have shown a high degree of understanding and willingness to talk to the lawyer's chambers and there have been conclusions and a proposal for these laws. Today, the most important thing is that there was an agreement because the legal certainty of citizens is the most important. I just need to remind you that this Law on Public Libraries was adopted in 2011. If you'd been more committed to him, if you'd been constructive and talked to the bar, you wouldn't be here today and it wouldn't be happening. Also, don't forget, you mentioned yourself that a few months ago we discussed these laws, and I didn't hear you say that you mentioned neither the interest of a lawyer nor the interests of a citizen. You were just worried about who would get the job of a public notebook. You've been having political debates, and citizens' interests were not your first priority. We had a complete suspension of the work of a lawyer, and the lawyers who disobeyed the order of the chamber suffered adverse consequences. I'm extremely sorry about that, and I hope your lawyers will continue to work, because I don't think they deserve to be released from the chamber. It's also my personal opinion, not the SNS. Also, all of these actions were suffered by the citizens. Let us bear in mind that citizens have chosen us, that they are the most important and that the Ministry of Justice has recognised that the interests of citizens in a particular case are more important than any events in the previous period. I have no reason to doubt that you too will be interested in citizens in the first place and will support these laws. These bill proposals are in the interest of citizens and are the fruit of agreements between the legal chambers and the government. The government has once again shown that citizens are first. For all of this, both as a representative of the citizens and as a representative of the lawyers, in the Election Day, I will support these laws and the Serbian Progressive Party, and I call on you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20177	Thank you, Mrs. Pantic. We are now moving on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled search. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20178	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with the team, ladies and gentlemen MPs, first of all to comment that I understand the position of the opposition colleagues who mentioned the Social Democratic Party of Serbia in terms of supporting this law and that I understand and concerned when you approach some one and a half to two percent support, that there are reserves and there are completely unfounded aspects and, of course, the discussion that arises from this. As a representative of the authentic left in this House, I will repeat what is the position of our party and what we repeat over and over again, which is that we will unreservedly support the reform course, all the reform laws and what will lead to the greatest problems being defined, which were created from 2000 to 2012. It's a problem of an unquality legal framework. That's the problem with unemployment. It's the investor's inability to come here because of the uncertainty. The problem he defined and allowed speculant capital in one large part to come into our country and lead to many jobs being lost. We as an authentic left, as an authentic social democracy, of course we are opposed to that and I see no reason and I see no argument that Minister Selakovic is developing any God-given white flag. This way, I want to support him on behalf of my party and I want to say that it is very important that the Institute of Dialogue develops in Serbia and that we will always support what is ultimately defined as a result, and the result of these talks and negotiations, which we can discuss whether they lasted long or short, is such that there was an agreement. What is most important to us is that through the application of this law the property of citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be protected, that foreign and domestic investors' investments will be protected and that is the result for us. This way I express my support and, of course, I appeal to the minister to continue to work in a good, quality way in the interest of the economy, in the interests of the citizens, because our most important goal here in Parliament and in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to create and create one quality market economy, society of equal opportunities and what is most important that one society can develop, which is a quality legal framework that guarantees all its rights, guarantees opportunities, and not that society based on nepotism, in close ties with political power. That's what we want to root out, with all the negative aspects that we've had so far, which is big corruption, organized crime, what has eaten away our economy and our society for so many years and so many decades. Of course, in the coming period, we will support everything that is reform6, everything that is quality and which will lead to the economic growth of our country, new employment and all that social democracy that we in parliament represent and represents and implies. In this regard, we will be a quality and hopefully a good and constructive partner to our partners from the Serbian Progressive Party and the entire coalition. Of course, in that name we will make a full contribution to making our country a country that is economically developed, a country that has the lowest or very low level of corruption, the grey economy and everything that has accumulated, and that some of us have previously been unable to solve in the previous period. I will repeat again as the head of my parliamentary club, MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support changes and additions to this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20179	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic, and let Natasa Vukovic be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20180	Dear Chairman Selakovic, representatives of the justice ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues, at the very beginning, I would like to welcome the representatives of the attorneys and regional law offices of Serbia's Bar Association and to express the satisfaction that those from this hall today, this respected home, have the opportunity to follow the debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration and other accompanying laws, unlike the situation that was in November last year when they did not have such an opportunity. Today, as I pointed out, it is on the agenda, amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration and other accompanying laws created as a result of the Justice Ministry's agreement after a four-month strike of lawyers. I want to express my satisfaction as to why this deal came to pass, but of course, the satisfaction cannot represent the fact that after four and a half months, that agreement has been reached. I would also like to point out at the outset that, as a parliamentary group of SDS and parties gathered around the SDS, we submitted in September the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Libraries which I am confident that the adopted party would contribute to the end of the strike, that the judiciary is also beginning to function and that the citizens most affected by this strike are exercising their rights in court. Instead, this assembly refused to discuss the proposals submitted, I suppose the reason was that it submitted a proposal by an opposition parliamentary group. Instead, in November, we discussed the government's draft law. As the SDS parliamentary group, we refused to participate then in a pointless debate under the proposal of the law, which was either an expression of will or a better expression of the self-will of a party that participated or did not want to participate in the negotiations. On the other hand, Serbia's Bar Association has made it clear that it will not accept the proposed amendments to the law and that the protest continues, as has been done. Today, here, after four months of non-functioning of the judiciary, we are discussing again the proposal to amend and supplement the laws relating to the work of public notebooks. In today's debate, we will not celebrate the failure of the government and the Ministry of Justice, nor the fact that they had to give in to the demands of the lawyer, but we will make our constructive contribution as we have done so far. However, during the protest, especially at its beginning, many things have been misrepresented and this is an opportunity to discuss and determine the actual facts. One of the untruths that have been brought forward is that the protest of lawyers, which has been done today in the debate, follows the Law on Public Records adopted, as it is often pointed out here, by the previous regime. More specifically, the following is stated – the lawyer's strike is an insurrection against the Law on Public Libraries, which was adopted in 2011, as well as that lawyers in previous political structures used their influence to secure their own privileged status, but that this government does not care about these agreements. That, Minister Selakovic, was brought out in September of this year. But the truth is completely different. The truth is reflected in the fact that the Law on Public Registration was adopted at the same session of Parliament as the Law on Lawyerry and that it was the fruit of talks and agreements between the Ministry of Justice, whose head I had the pleasure of being also a representative of the lawyer. Then it was stated that the basis of a protest of lawyers, as I said, was the law of 2011. I will quote what you Minister Selakovic presented in this distinguished home in February 2013 when amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration were discussed. As I said, I quote you -- "notary, as set out in the current Public Registration Act is absolutely unsustainable. People are not interested in preparing such a difficult exam, opening public records offices, and having such narrow and small competencies that will not allow them to cover basic overhead costs." Then you further stated – namely, a valid legal solution, meaning that decision from the 2011 law, which has been passed by the previous regime, gives public notebooks little jurisdiction in the area of real estate transport. It provides that notaries shall draw up public records on the availability of the immovableities of persons who are commercially incompetent. When it comes to the availability of the property of commercially qualified persons, a valid legal solution provides that within a period of two years from the start of the application of the party's law, they may choose whether such contracts will be certified before the court or made up of them in a public register. This solution to the concept of notaries in Serbia has been criticised. It is criticised because the notary in Serbia makes it economically unsustainable. If the notaries don't increase the authority, the public record offices will hardly be able to survive. This is what you said in February 2013, I repeat, and carried out the following – the proposed changes establish the exclusive competence of notaries for the conclusion of contracts that carry out alienation and burden of immovableity. The positive sides of this solution, according to you ministers, were multiple. Well, then you put out the following – first of all, there will be a much higher level of preventive legal protection in the area of real estate transport. The public notary will be obliged to closely control any contractual provision, to point out to the parties any irregularities which could result in the invalidity of the contract or disputes on the interpretation of the contract, to refuse to make up a contract that is absolutely nothing fictitious or simulated. This will result in many positive effects, preventing tax on the transfer of absolute rights and capital gains tax. And especially will root out fraud with multiple house and apartment sales that are very difficult in our practice. So, we have now undisputedly found that the protest of the lawyers was due to the amendments and additions to the Public Note Act that you defended in February 2013. On the very text of the law, I don't want to make a statement, I think that enough is the fact that the fruit of the compromise between the justice ministry and the Serbian bar of law and in those solutions we trust. We have asked the amendments we have made to this honored home six months later to report on the implementation of the law, and I hope you will have so much width to respect that amendment. I would also like to add on the amendments and addition of the Law on the Procedure and Jurisdiction of the State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure and to say that the amendments to these laws represent an unencumbered position that you have shown in the war crimes trial. I welcome these changes, and I would like to point out the fact that it speaks about the work of the war crimes prosecutor that after the last proceedings that took place for a monstrous crime that took place in Strpci, 44 countries have positively expressed themselves in their reports on the war crimes trial in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20181	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20182	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to repeat what I said earlier that I am really closely following the debates and not rarely enjoying them, just as it was in one of the previous ones. Like I said, how important what's said is what's said, it's important that whoever's talking, I choose what to start from. The first thing, we could hear in one presentation of the distinguished fellow MP that, for God's sake, her parliamentary group in September and not in September, if I am not mistaken in October 2014 submitted a proposal for amendments to the Law on Public Registration and the Law on Transport of Immobility. And how the Government Assembly submitted something in November, and not in November, but in October. Although I am not mistaken for this parliamentary group that has submitted these amendments, these amendments, which are 98% identical to the amendments of the Law adopted at the beginning of November of the month, did not want to take part in the assembly debate either. So 98% was a match to what the National Assembly adopted here at the government's proposal. My distinguished predecessor said - therefore, we found that lawyers were strikein' against amending the 2013 law. That's not true at all. The lawyers openly said during the protest – I think the 2011 law is bad and we want to change those solutions. That is exactly the outcome of the agreement we reached with Serbia's Bar of Lawyers, where they said no. You want me to quote Mr. Djordjevic who said several times - the lawyer has been silent for years. Is that what an ironic speaker just said? Today we say, therefore, they strike for the 2013 changes. It's not true at all. So it's absolutely not true. If you look at the initiatives written by the Bar Associations to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality, they argue that what was established is unconstitutional, fundamentally, by the 2011 Law. So that's what you're saying. Where is the irony of the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament? I don't know if my distinguished predecessor speaks as a MP or as a prosecutor's assistant from the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, in which she was not returned from the parliamentary benches, when she resigned, but from a party where she was once held as an employee. I stand by the words I say here. Well, since we've been doing quotes, are we going to quote the daily press, and in the daily press, it's just that someone in the middle of the election campaign was returned to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, from the political party, not from the parliamentary benches. Is that an independent judiciary? Someone just said, "Why didn't we hear the lawyer cry?" So why don't you hear them when you left your spouses on the street in 2009 without a job, like judges or deputy public prosecutors. How many of those cases were there? Then why don't you hear the lawyer cry? And where they were, a voice from the ministry when not debates were conducted, but minor physical accounts among Belgrade's lawyers, who eventually received an epilogue by the Constitutional Court's decision. Come on, at least be so correct and sometimes admit to a mistake. I don't have a problem even when I make a mistake to admit it. If a public debate had been held and talks with the lawyer when the Law on Public Registration was passed in 2011, we would not be in this situation. If at that time the interest of the lawyer was respected and the legal position of the lawyer was then taken into account in a legal system in which the public notebooks would legitimately have their position, then we wouldn't have a problem like this. An unprincipled attitude in the procession for war crimes, so would you like me to quote Mr Vukcevic who said that the latest actions in the case of sanctioned persons suspected of committing a war crime in Strpci, that he could not have done it under some former authority. That he said he was exposed to pressures. Is this an unprincipled attitude, or is it an unprincipled attitude to return to work in the judiciary from the political party. Of course, you can say - that's the law. The labour law says he can put some work at rest if he's elected to a public office or works in a political organisation, and then the more the one who does and the one who returns to the judiciary in this way does not have a shred of credibility to talk about the independence of that same judiciary. How many times did he go to work and register at the same job that came back from the political party to work at the Public Prosecutor's Office, whoever it was. You ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs here have 250, which means that each of you tomorrow from your party's authority by that logic can go to court or to the prosecution and tomorrow be a candidate for a deputy prosecutor, for a public prosecutor, for a judge, and suddenly turkey dots don't apply, he's now impartial. The fact that he was a member of some political party, that he was working in some political party, that doesn't make anyone a commitment. Judges, judges and prosecutors, prosecutors, they must not be members of political parties, and here they are elected by political resemblance and on the basis of membership, as Mr Babic just before said and the budget of the Republic of Serbia's multimillion-dollar sums is paying these judges and those deputy prosecutors because someone anti-constitutionally pushed them into the street. What is constitutional and what is not, in this and what we are discussing, will be decided and will be given by the Constitutional Court, and we are all obliged to respect it. That's exactly what this is about. So, as much as it matters what they say, it's important who they say. Be honest and say that it sat down with lawyers in 2011 and discussed the Law on Public Records and that it had received support and legal chambers, there would be no problem. Be honest, so say it. Not to mention how many high-ranking judicial or public officials have performed their duties since the time of the government that was in power until 2012, the people elected by the National Assembly have been offered to become public notebooks. I don't know how, they even said... (Dusan Petrovic, from the place, said, "Who has spoken, let him say who has spoken?" )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20183	Please, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20184	They even spoke without exams. I can understand what they're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20185	Please, if anyone recognizes himself, please wait and ask for the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20186	And if I said they were being offered, I didn't say they were being offered someone from here, and these people are people of integrity, and I believe they'll be willing to say it publicly, so let them say, this is a free country, if they couldn't speak until 2012, they can after 2012. (Snezana Malovic, from the place: Call them to say. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20187	Please, Mrs. Malovic, I once again ask the MP, if anyone has identified himself, to wait and ask for the right to reply, but to wait for the minister to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20188	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would be ashamed to receive a salary of 140,000 dinars and to come to work twice in a month. I would be ashamed to do so, and individuals have done so, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, good pay, much higher than the minister's. There's a problem when it occurs, not one, there's a force of cause. Most of the time, you can see the one who caused this problem among the last ones. Can it be said that the problem is also in the 2013 amendment of the Law? I am pleased that my distinguished predecessor quoted me, and I quoted Professor Boko, deputy president of the Federal Notary Chamber of the Federal Republic of Germany, who made the same objections to our 2011 Law on Public Registration by whose informal recommendation from the National School of Natural Rights were implemented in 2013. It was not given by a man who had no position, it was not given by a man who came from a country that had no legal tradition, but by someone who was extremely respected and respected in the Federal Republic of Germany. Is one part of the cause of these changes in 2013? Yes, it is. Is it part of the 2011 law? Yes, it is. Is it part of the reason that the lawyer was silent after those changes? That's what it is. The lawyer herself said she was silent. So there's a multi-layer cause of this problem here. I am pleased that we have been able to come up with a solution to this problem, and perhaps it is the only thing that the representatives of the attorney and the representatives of the ministry are satisfied with. There was a solution, and if this were to be discussed, if some law offices hadn't been deprived of powers, if there hadn't been a conflict and instructed within the law firm, this solution would have been likely to happen in a difficult, complicated, difficult way before, perhaps just that year in 2011. And then it didn't come. There's been a solution now. And the key thing that I want to mention one more time -- the important thing is what is said, it's no less important who says something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20189	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of Mr. Becic, the respected Minister Selakovic, the respected guests of the Justice Ministry, was just in a speech by Mr. Selakovic, a injured member of 107. The Rules of Procedure, which he says in his position, shall be a speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly, and shall respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Nikola Selakovic has in two ways damaged the dignity of this National Assembly, Mr. Becic and I ask you that if you have failed to warn him earlier, I will state what these are two ways, as the members of the Rules of Procedure also refer to the guests.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20191	Mr. Pavicevic, please. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Please. ) First of all, according to the Rules of Procedure, you know very well that no one but the chairman can harm the Rules of Procedure at this time. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: You did not warn him. That's what I said. Well, then you didn't say that, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes. You didn't just say that Mr. Selakovic hurt his Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: You did not warn Mr. Becic. Please turn on the microphone for me to continue. ) Here, Mr. Pavicevic, I've heard enough, you've explained enough, I'm sure I haven't broken the Rules of Procedure in the voting day will the MPs decide on that. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. The word has a People's MP... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Pavicevic, you are now taking the risk of me giving you both a reminder and a third. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: You cannot give me a warning. Mr. Pavicevic, you're risking me to make three warnings. You've already reported directly to the Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: You have now broken the Rules of Procedure. ) To me, I can either take a break or give a warning first, second, and third. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Dignity of the Assembly, I again advertise the Rules of Procedure. I thank you for advertising the Rules of Procedure. I thank Mr. Pavicevic, you can't go like that right now. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20192	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, which states that the MP has the right to orally point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure done at a session of the National Assembly that is under way and immediately after the injury has been done. Mr Pavicevic, in line with the member who advertised, pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. He says the MP has the right to explain his proposal for the longest time in two minutes. You interrupted Mr Pavicevic and thus made it impossible for the opposition to express what it says in this Rules of Procedure. You are terrorist, Mr. Becic, over the National Assembly at the MPs of the opposition. That's not the first time you've done it. So you've hurt the Rules of Procedure and made it impossible for the opposition to speak. You are making it impossible for the opposition to talk about amending the Law on Public Notes even though Minister Selakovic was talking about something else entirely. He spoke beyond the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20193	There you go, Mr. Veselinovic. You can read the Rules of Procedure where it's said for up to two minutes. Secondly, Mr. Pavicevic was interrupted at the moment he tried to use a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Like you weren't interrupted until you tried to use the Rules of Procedure's injury as a replica. So, if you were still talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, we'd be talking for two minutes. The moment you tried to use the breach of the Rules of Procedure at that moment, I interrupted you, as I will always do. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. I thank you. The word is according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Selakovic, honored guests from the Ministry of Justice, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Becic, has now, for the second time in less than five minutes, violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Member of 108 Mr Becic. In Article 108, paragraph 1 on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly, in this case chaired by the National Assembly, is taken care of. Dear Mr. Becic, the order at the National Assembly session implies that the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are respected, and this meant that Mr. Vesenovic was exposed to the content of Article 103. Rules of Procedure, you have no opportunity, Mr. Becic, to represent yourself here as some kind of psychic man. The prophet to know what was in Mr. Veselinovic's head, what he was going to say, to get into that brain fall and say -- here I know what you wanted to say, so I stopped you, Mr. Vesenovic. There's no man, Mr. Becic, and you're not that man either. Therefore, Mr. Becic, not even you, it is therefore your obligation as one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly to take care of order at the National Assembly session. I remind you that this means respect for the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Law on the National Assembly and the Constitution of our Republic, and not Mr. Bečić, I agree with Mr. Veselinović that you are seducing one-many and terror here during the debate on every item of the agenda and in the extraordinary sessions scheduled here by the Government of the Republic, Mr. Bečić. Let me say it in the voter's day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20195	Mr. Pavicevic, I am obliged to give an explanation. As you can see, Mr. Pavicevic, since you've been talking for two minutes about hurting the Rules of Procedure, I haven't interrupted you, but it's also your duty as a MP to tell the truth. I never told Mr. Veselinovic for a moment that I had predicted what he could say, so I interrupted him. The moment he no longer spoke of hurting the Rules of Procedure, he tried to use the Rules of Procedure to use it as a replica, I interrupted it, so as I can see you weren't telling the truth, Mr. Pavicevic, and you as a professor are obliged to do so. Thank you. The word is, Mrs. Snezana Malovic's replica, but first you tell me why you think you have the right to a replica? (Snezana Malovic, from the post: Because the minister mentioned me in the exhibition. ) He didn't say "Mrs. Malovic" for a moment, nor did he mention your name and name, unless you recognized yourself in the presentation of Mr. Minister. (Dusan Petrovic, from the post: Dear previous speaker, five times. ) Well, previous speakers have several Mr. Petrovic. I know you're a lawyer, a lawyer, and he could've thought about Mrs. Pantic. I'm sorry, if that's all you mean by "the previous pay phone," you don't have the right to a replica. If you've recognized yourself in Mr. Secretary's presentation, you have the right to a replica. Since you haven't recognized yourself, the word has the magistrate Alexander Jerkov, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20196	Mr. Becicu, Article 27. I just can't believe we're wasting our time here explaining and arguing with you that you can't lead this session the way you think of it, but the way the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20197	What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20198	Article 27, that's what I said at the beginning. Unlike colleagues from the SNS, who don't have to do anything at all, we are trying to comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. With this in mind, Article 104 clearly obliges you in which situations you give MPs the right to replication. Not only can we play by whether the previous speaker was someone who spoke yesterday or someone who spoke before the minister... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20199	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I am not finished.) ) As soon as you try to take advantage of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will not give that opportunity. As long as you use it to hurt the Rules of Procedure and explain why you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, you can speak for more than two minutes. Thank you, Miss Jerkov. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. (Snezana Malovic, from the post: I recognized myself in the minister's speech. ) The word has Mrs Malovic. You guys recognized each other after all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20200	Thank you. It's very ungrateful when you don't turn on the microphone and ask us to answer and then we need to scream, and you have the microphone on and you can normally discuss it. So, yeah, I recognized myself. I recognized myself because I was a previous speaker and I want to talk to Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20201	Based on this -- the previous speaker, you can't get the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20202	That's what you just told me. Did I recognize myself? So, I won't continue with the insults that Minister Selakovic made...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20203	I don't want to talk about insults.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20204	Can you get me my time back to square one? So I'm not going to continue with the insults that Minister Selakovic has brought to my account. I respect him, respect the function he performs in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and respect his personality. I'm not going to bring up facts relating to my equal status. My work book is in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Anyone can establish movement in my service, and my assets and revenues have been reported to the Anti-Corruption Agency and is on the Internet site of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I would like to clarify part of Minister Selakovic's speech that said talks were not conducted with representatives of the lawyer. Here at the table where the representatives of the Justice Department were sitting were people who participated with me in discussions with the representatives of law enforcement, both on the Law on Public Records adopted at the time and on the Law on Lawyerry and Law on Enforcement and Security and other accompanying laws. Was it the fact that the focus of the lawyer's protest was on taking away the possibility of forming a real estate contract by a lawyer? I think that's very clear. If not, come on, deny me. I think that's how we and the rest of the Serbian citizens experienced it. If we haven't, then we've been mistaken all these four and a half months. I also don't understand the part about us not being... The trial of war crimes and the conduct of war crimes proceedings was condemned by the previous government. Are we the ones who encouraged and helped the war crimes trial and contributed to Serbia's carrying out its international obligations or not? That's the facts they're talking about. They're indisputable and I think they're available to everyone, publicly published. So it's unnecessary for me to compromise on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20205	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20206	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly. The first thing, respecting the dignity of this house and you as elected MPs, I choose every word very carefully and when I say something, I try to support it and the arguments, and the arguments are inexorable. Is it possible in the state of Serbia that the leadership of the political party will be entitled to work in the prosecutor's office or court? It's possible. So much for an independent judiciary and two more sentences. The first thing, you know, we were also at the Justice Department talking to lawyers, so sometimes we didn't get along, and we didn't agree on some things. To have conversations and to agree, two are completely different things. Here we are, gentlemen, and the lady president of the law chambers in Serbia. They told me – we are not satisfied with the provisions of the 2011 law. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Gjorgevic, we've talked about it together. So, I choose very carefully every word I say, so I also carefully chose the war crimes prosecutor who said they were exposed to the pressures of previous authorities and that they couldn't open up any cases that had been pending for more than 10 to 15 years. That's exactly what he said. That's not my word. I'm passing on his stuff. Who was he thinking of? I am a member of this government and representative of this ruling majority. He was talking about past authorities. On the other hand, I am proud to live in a country and to be a minister in a government where, unfortunately, some of our region's countries, war crimes are being prosecuted, regardless of nationality or religion, both the victims and the accused. My position on this matter is absolutely clear. He's very principled and, if you will, totally Christian. That's the attitude I'm proud of. I will not bear that anyone on my behalf and on behalf of my family and on behalf of my fellow citizens and on behalf of my countrymen has committed a crime. Serbia will clear that story and it can calmly conscience and raise its heads to the future, and whoever does not, it will not have that calmness and that security that we will have and let it get thicker over it. I don't see any indiscipline about it, but absolute principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20207	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20208	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first on a sentence repeated several times by the minister today, commenting on the speeches of the Members of the People that it is not important what they say, but that it is important who speaks. I think it's not the task or the right of any minister to share MPs here in a similar or inappropriate manner, what who can and can't speak. We are citizens here, all equal in our rights, and we all have the right to talk about everything. So it's not the minister that appreciates it. What are we talking about here today? What are we doing here today? We are today correcting a major mistake both the minister of justice and the government of the Republic of Serbia in general. It is not a compromise, as the government is trying to present today, which has been achieved by the government and the Serbian Bar of Lawyers. It's just a consequence. It's just a way out of the huge problem this government has created. Gentlemen of the government, you have produced a strike of lawyers, thereby causing enormous damage to the citizens of Serbia and to the institutions of our country. You've been paralysing the judiciary by being reckless at the last minute, unprofessionally, from the beginning of the fall you decided to bring amendments and additions to the Law on Public Records. You didn't want to hear any criticism of the opposition or the opinion of the profession at the time. When the strike began, Mr. Minister, you didn't want to accept the seriousness of the strike, nor did you want to predict the seriousness of the strike. We all remember your behavior and your statements, how inappropriate and untrue words you said about lawyers, what all attempts to discredit them were, that they were stakeholders, that they were those who wanted to stop the fight against corruption. Instead of talking to them, and you refused for a few months, you calculated that the force of strike energy and resistance would be exhausted, you calculated that lawyers would have to start working for financial reasons, etc., that your demands and their blade would be dulled. You bought time at the expense of Serbian citizens. You gave in then, which is the usual practice of this government, to bully one group of citizens against another group. So you tried to force the citizens and society against the lawyers, that they were guilty of the strike, that they were guilty of paralysis, that they were guilty of postponing the hearings indefinitely. The government has been constantly bullying citizens against other citizens. Thus, pensioners are guilty of wage cuts, and the pension reduction is the opposition's fault. It's the teachers' fault for the strike and for the school's termination. The government is never guilty. You tried to present Serbia's lawyers and lawyers as an interest group that only cares about its tax benefits and only its profession. And what was clearly seen is that it was just the constitutional rights of citizens, that it was respect for the Constitution, that it was a right to freedom of contract, which was seriously violated by the law that you proposed and which this Assembly adopted. Then, despite the fact that it was already certain that they would have to enter negotiations with them, you tried to make the end of the strike through some minor changes in mid- autumn. And today you told us in the opening part that the government insisted on negotiations. That's not true at all. You see, in the propaganda war against the former government, there was a lot of criticism, and you're using it today. You have this history all the time, justifying all the mistakes of today. There have been a lot of criticism about the judicial reform at the time. What did you do, Minister? What is the result of this policy in the field of judicial reform? Four months of paralysis and judicial blockades, hundreds and hundreds of cancelled hearings, further reduced citizens' confidence in the institutions and the state. The state ran out of significant revenues collected on the basis of a court taxi. Four months in the end line doesn't work either, which you say, and your government, is one of the priorities in your program. The government had to accept the lawyer's request. That's why we're talking about these changes and additions today. But it's a confirmation that this government has been defeated on this issue. This is defeat, one of the greatest defeats of this government ever. These amendments and additions to the Law on Public Records are the defeat of the policy that you have led to the introduction of public records and judicial reform. This battle was won by lawyers, and I have to say, they got the most of the so-called. small lawyers from Loznica, Kruševac, Jagodina, Triestenik, etc., and young lawyers, because they were most financially threatened by this strike. What's more important, and it will remain as a long-term consequence, this battle has been won by society. This battle was won by a society that recognized the authenticity of the legal requirements, which recognised that only organized could stand up to the arrogant and incompetent government. They were citizens, organised in a professional organization, who were not scared, nor succumbed to media manipulations, nor threats, nor the fear this government is trying to spread to society. We here today as MPs, again by emergency procedure, are discussing amendments and additions to the Law on Public Records. We didn't have enough time to check everything. It's not a secret. That's what my colleagues were talking about. These changes are the result of an agreement with the lawyers. We still as MPs have some questions as to whether all provisions are in accordance with the Constitution. We have submitted some amendments, and we will discuss this in particular, but we consider it important that conditions are created to end the judicial blockade. A key question remains, however, Minister. We are ahead of us with major steps in judicial reform, so at least you say, expecting that negotiating chapters 23 and 24 will soon be opened. How does someone think that with such a threatened reputation, with such weakened credibility both in the professional public and in the judiciary and in the general public, how do they think they will be able to propose and manage judicial reform in the future? It is our opinion, Mr. Minister, that this is now too much of a task for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20209	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20210	Thank you. I'm pointing to article 106. The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I'm asking you to take care of it. The short-time speaker didn't say a word to the only one about the law, one word. We've been listening here to a political tiara about the resistance of lawyers, about what, but we haven't heard one word about the law itself. I'm asking you to take care of yourself, especially since there's talk of capitulation, capitulation here, and I don't know what After them over our judiciary, there was a black flag on half the spear over that same judiciary. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: This is a replica.]] Thank you. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: What is this violation of the Rules of Procedure? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20211	He explained less than a minute why he thought I broke the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20212	Article 103. Let us once again read: “The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at a session that is under way and immediately after the injury has been done. “ The messenger of the people is obliged to explain; he cannot abuse. You explained to us how you respected the Rules of Procedure why you excluded the microphone and Mr. Pavicevic and Mr. Veseinović, and now we had a classic replica, in which nothing about the violation of Article 106. The Rules of Procedure were not told, but a replica of the previous presentation of MPs who could not get the word. You have not acted on Article 103, which says, in the case of the position of the 7th member, the President of the National Assembly is obliged to use the time the MP used by abuse of the right of the position of the 1st member to subtract from the total time that belongs to his parliamentary group in search of the current agenda point. Anyway, you let him finish up and said he talked less than a minute. You don't have the right. You can't measure someone who can speak for a minute, who can speak for 40 seconds, who can speak for two minutes. The breach of the Rules of Procedure takes two minutes. I ask you to listen to every MP, including the MPs of the opposition when they speak of the violation of the Rules of Procedure for two minutes, not an apostle who has no courage to speak, but hides himself more quickly and hides himself and interrupts his speech, to justify that he has spoken less than a minute. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20213	Don't insult the People's Messenger. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: I ask you to let me speak, to finish my presentation.) I won't let you. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: I'm just talking about your actions. You can't interrupt me. Let me tell you in two minutes what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is. Mr. Djurishich, allow me to answer. I give you a warning. I broke up the moment you started insulting the MP. Also, Mr. Djurishic, I thought you called to apologize for throwing yourself out of the bench. Mr. Djukanovic said in one sentence and I can quote it, that he thinks I violated the Rules of Procedure because I allowed the MP who spoke before him to speak out of the agenda and not say anything about the agenda. Nothing more, Mr. Djurisic, nor has he used for replication, nor has he replicated, nor has he made the political speeches that you've been making, except that he said that the MP who spoke before him didn't speak about the subject, nothing more than that. I thought you called to apologize for throwing you out of the bench. You didn't do it, you broke the Rules of Procedure, and I had to give a warning. Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, the honored guests of the Ministry of Justice, you look at me unusually, I don't know what this is about. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, was injured by article 109. Rules of Procedure. You hurt him by giving an unfounded warning measure to the MP, Mr. Djurisic. This, Mr. Becic, is called part of an attempt to locate the remains of parliamentaryism in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20215	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic, I'll do the same if you continue. I told Mr. Djurisic a warning when after he turned off the microphone and took away the words, he kept talking, insulted the MP. It was my duty to apply the Rules of Procedure at that time. Are you happy, Mr. Pavicevic? If you're not the Assembly, they'll come forward in the voting day. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20216	The Honorable Chairman, not all of this can be over, is injured, Article 109, where it is said: the warning is given to a people's messenger who directly addresses the other People's Messenger. Someone here came to me to say I don't have the guts to answer. I can't wait to get in line, just pick up this bill and... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20217	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Please don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20218	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20219	The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20220	Thank you. You hurt Article 107, quote - you said...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20221	That's it, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20222	If you'll excuse me, I'll say it. If you want to talk, so can I. If you think that by dialogue we can prevent the MPs from using their rights guaranteed by the Rules of Procedure and by law in the National Assembly, we are wrong. So you injured Article 107, endangering the dignity of the National Assembly, and Article 27. Since you've explained in your explanation that you're the institution of disabling microphones and taking away words. Taking away words by the same article of 109 that is here for you to consider how much and how you are violating the Rules of Procedure, there is a measure of taking away words as a measure to express the defined punishment of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20223	Mrs. Comic, you misunderstood me, it wasn't that kind of taking words from the Rules of Procedure, because I said I was after...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20224	I have two minutes at my disposal. If you don't have patience...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20225	But you misunderstood, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20226	If you have no patience to wait two minutes, then you always have the opportunity to establish temporary rules, that MPs who address you with a request, under Article 103, who say what you like, have two minutes' rights without being in dialogue with you, and MPs you don't like, don't have two minutes' rights. I don't care how you categorize me. But, the institution of disfellowshipping and taking away words, there is no and it is inadmissible to explain to the MPs that you have done according to institutions that do not exist, as we are used to, but it is unacceptable to hear the rejection of only the MPs of the opposition, and you do not hear the passing of distinguished colleagues from the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20227	Mrs. Komic, I, by article 108, have to take care of the order at the session, and that was the only possibility that I would not allow one MP to insult another MP. You know very well, Mrs. Comic. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Petrovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to express my great pleasure that we are approaching the resolution of the serious state crisis that we are in for four and a half months, because the courts in our country are not working to the greatest extent possible, and this is due to the suspension of the work of lawyers. It was a very simple point around which all this time was debated, to this proposal and until it was adopted, notaries were given exclusive jurisdiction in the conduct of the contract, which simply means that citizens, either directly or directly, were empowered by their attorneys, and these were not able to conclude a large number of contracts as they had done before. It is quite clear that the minister was, it is likely today's belief that the previous solution was good, and for that solution he fought for. What's supposed to be the result of this debate here today, but I'm afraid that this debate isn't going that way, is to see what's actually causing this four and a half months of trouble and the state crisis that we're having. I am convinced that this is the way we are having this debate in this House. I am convinced that this is the way we are having a debate in our policy and outside this House and it is obviously unproductive. If we had a good debate when this law was passed, I think it would be very likely that we would not have met up with the fact that our courts don't work for four and a half months, because we could, in one good, as the Serbian parliament deserves, talk and debate, come up with that, including lawyers who are MPs of the parliamentary majority and those who understand it, and are part of the opposition, whether or not it should be the exclusive jurisdiction of the notaries, as the previous law has been set up. The minister had his confidence and fought for him, he lost. He lost a very serious political battle. It's no big deal that he didn't drag the government into it, which gave him unreserved support all the time. It's a good thing we've come to a solution to this thing today. It is good that there is no exclusive jurisdiction from the moment this law enters into force of the notaries, as has been laid down in the regulations and the system of laws before these amendments occur. It's a good thing there's a notorious system because, as in all other countries, we're going to have a more efficient system in all of these things. It's good that all these jobs come out of court and they're dealt with by notaries and convinced that we'll have greater legal certainty. It's not a good thing we didn't have a good debate, and that's why we faced the fact that we had four and a half months to stop working. I think it's a chance now, I'm speaking to Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, to take this day...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20229	Mr. Petrovic, you can't speak to your fellow MPs. You have to speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20230	Here, I'm talking to you, and then you tell it to the MPs. One important thing, we need to get here a kind of political stance and promises from the minister that no action taken by the notaries will be more expensive than it was before the notorious system was established. It is an issue that is important for every citizen of Serbia. I am convinced that nothing, not a single signature, not a single conclusion of a contract, not a single conclusion of a legal deal, and here all the legal affairs are listed, there is no need for Serbian citizens to allocate more money than they did before the notaries began to perform their duty. This parliament has the power to clear this thing today. If we haven't had a good debate and because of the poor debate and the way Parliament is being led, we've had four and a half months of trouble with the courts not working, at least today we can fight to make sure that citizens don't have to pay more than they paid before the notaries become part of our life and legal reality. I want to congratulate my fellow lawyers, and I'm proud to be still a lawyer myself, although I'm not very sad about it for almost 15 years, because they've manifested civil courage and for having the strength to go out in this battle as winners. I'm not an idealist, I know they fought for themselves, that they fought for their profession and I don't see anything illegal about it, but it's good that fighting for themselves and their profession has shown that in our society there is power to be consistent, logical, on the Constitution-based views pushed even when it at first glances and at first it doesn't seem possible. This is the biggest defeat suffered by the government of the Republic of Serbia in the past two and a half years. I'm going to say once again, that defeat wouldn't have suffered if we had a good debate here, that we could have had a good, logical conversation about whether or not the notaries should have exclusive jurisdiction in things, whether it's good for the citizens themselves or through their assistants to make these legal deals, and I'm sure we wouldn't have this problem then. Once again, let's make sure the citizens don't pay more than they paid before the notaries entered our legal system. This is Mr. Chairman of both you and your fellow vice presidents who lead the Assembly and the presidents of the Assembly, if you make an effort, we will have a much smaller risk of this kind of trouble. Let the debate take place here, parliament is the place where open debates should be held. We need to fight sharply politically, and there is no reason why this high house, the place where Serbian citizens chose us, we do not have the opportunity to speak well and clearly. When we don't talk enough in parliament, then things get settled on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20231	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. As you've seen, you've had the opportunity to conduct a debate. You even had five seconds more, so your MP group doesn't have any more time. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20232	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, one of the previous speakers misquoted me. I hope it wasn't maligning. I've said a sentence more than once -- as important as what is said is, it's as important as who is saying it, and not as it's wrong here -- it doesn't matter what is said, but who is saying it, which is absolutely incorrect and has a different meaning. I'm still staying on it. I also don't understand, it looks like someone didn't read the 2011 law when they said the notaries in 2013 were given exclusiveness. Public notebooks are incomparably more exclusive to the 2011 law, and that's what the lawyer was up against. I absolutely sign a sentence where it was said that this would not be the case if a quality debate had been conducted here in time. That's right, if there was a quality debate here in 2011, it wouldn't be. What's more, eight or one? In 2013 in one thing was fried, you said, exclusiveness to public notebooks, and in 2011 in eight times more. That one plus all those. So, if something is the result of the conversation and why I rightly claimed that there were those talks that were not conducted in 2011, then it is precisely because the lawyer had made it very clear that they were against the law that was passed in 2011. That's absolutely true. Because if you look at the amendments to the Law on Public Registration, October of last November, then the public notebooks no longer had the exclusiveness to draw up a real estate transport contract. But we are no longer essentially having difficult talks during December and early January of this year on the subject of a real estate contract. Partly yes, but if you look at where there's a possibility of a lawyer putting together a contract now, then you'll see that it's incomparably more tax-listed cases. So, like I said, causality is multilayered. Whoever wants to be fair and upright will accept it and say it—it is true. If this was the kind of conversation, if this were a debate, and this kind of conversation with the law offices on this issue was conducted in 2011, then there would certainly be no problem, but it isn't. As for what you mentioned earlier, and you are not the only MP who noticed it and said, when it comes to the price of public record services, so now that you look, when this law comes into force, that is, if these bill proposals are adopted by the National Assembly and enter into force, they will be cheaper at the existing public record tariff, if we talk about real estate traffic, if we talk about a life support contract. Not cheaper than this current tariff, but in a convincing part of the cases cheaper than they were until September 1st last year. Who cares can look very easily. You have a table there, so let's say that for a real estate contract worth about 200,000 euros, by September 1st, the tax was 39,000 dinars. If these laws are passed, the price will be about 5,000 dinars lower, because 60% of the tariff that is the tariff for the public record is paid. It doesn't take much mathematical knowledge to get to that bill and you'll see it that way. There doesn't need any promise, just look at the current rules on fees and rewards and you'll get to that bill. Until a certain amount, the price is lower. You know, who has five million euros to pay for something, he should pay more. I think we can all agree on that. Remember that earlier it was 39,000 dinars, so if you buy an apartment that costs 150,000 euros or buy something costing 5m euros, the same thing was paid. So, remember a little bit of that and look at the original text of the 2011 law and you'll see exactly what I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20233	Mr. Petrovic, would you like a replica? (Yes) I don't see the basis. (Dusan Petrovic, from the place: misread my words. I really don't see the basis. The minister simply answered the questions you asked. He even confirmed your views and sightings when it comes to service prices, etc. (Dusan Petrovic, from the post: About jurisdiction, Mr. General. There's really no need to lead around that replica. Thank you very much. (Dusan Petrovic, from the post: So, he was the parallelism of jurisdiction. That's it. That's it. ) The word has a People's MP, Susana Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20234	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, representatives of the Serbian Bar Association, co-workers and fellow MPs, an extremely important topic and an extremely important set of laws is now on the agenda of parliament, whose adoption will finally resolve the months-long blockade of the judiciary. All the laws that we are discussing today, and the Law on Transport of Immobility, and the Law on Public Libraries, and the Family Law, and the Law on Inheritance, and the Act on Non-Parical Procedure, represent pillars of the judicial system, i.e. the legal system in our country as a whole. During some discussions today on this topic, it was that changes, i.e. changes and additions of legal solutions today are actually a solution to the problem that existed at the Ministry of Justice – lawyers. I would rather say that these amendments and additions to the law should be viewed exclusively in the interests of the citizens and certainly not seen as some kind of struggle between the Ministry of Justice and the lawyers, a fight after which there are winners and defeated. There are no losers, and the only winners are the citizens of our country, because their constitutional and eternal right relating to the right of all citizens to choose for themselves whom they will trust to form a contract. Given that so far the practice, i.e. the application of the law on public notebooks and on the traffic of immovableity, has shown that both law and law were not entirely in the interest of the Serbian citizens and that the adoption and application of these laws also led to the strike of lawyers and to the blockade of the judiciary and to a number of causal consequences under Serbia's legal system. Clearly, changes and additions of legal solutions that are now on the agenda had to take place. We in the SPS parliamentary group, as said by the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, Neđo Jovanovic, support every positive intention to eliminate the exclusive right of public notaries to make up contracts, especially when contracts on traffic immovableity are a question. Because by abolishing free competition and by drawing up a real estate transport contract and by abolishing the right of citizens to choose for themselves whom they will trust to draw up a contract, whether it is notaries or lawyers, or whether citizens themselves will form a real estate contract, there is indeed a kind of monopoly that is contrary to Article 84. The Constitution, Article 2, which prohibits the restriction of freedom of competition and the creation of a monopoly or dominant position. Public notebooks are both desirable and necessary in every legal and social system that seeks to be arranged and developed. The introduction of a public notary institute has led to an increase in legal traffic security, an increase in the speed of legal traffic, to facilitate the distribution of documents at international level, to discharging courts. Finally, to allow citizens to do their jobs faster, easier, and better quality. However, in order for all of these reasons for the introduction of public notebooks in practice to be justified in regulating the jurisdiction of the rights of public notaries, the Constitution and the law and the sublaws and the economic situation in the country and the construction of the legal system and the state of justice and the payment power of citizens must be taken into account. Only in this way can we implement all the necessary newspapers into the existing legal system and thus make it more just and efficient. The basic amendments and additions to the laws currently on the agenda and most affected by previous months relate to the fact that public notebooks will be able to make up a public record only when the question of contracts on the availability of the immobilities of persons with disabilities, contracts on the availability of fixed, deaf and blind persons, legal maintenance agreements. The public record remained only for specific legal transactions, all other legal transactions remain private legal transactions and public notebooks only confirm them. The solmenisation, which was also disputed in the previous months, is, under the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Libraries on Legal Consequences and Meaning, a practical legalisation with the power of the public notary to deny the confirmation only in specific cases where the party would have the right to appeal to the basic court or to appeal to the decision of the Court of Justice, which means that judicial control of the confirmation of the contract is ensured. I would retain on Article 4a of the Real Estate Transport Act, which provides that if the object of the Real Estate Transport Contract is an object for which there is no applicable permit or specific part of the facility or object in the legalisation process, there is an obligation to state in the contract and that the parties have to give consent to that. This has largely affected the deblockation of the sale of dwellings that have been in construction, which has been a real problem since the time of application of the Law on Public Libraries and Transport of immovableity, but I think maybe this provision should be further elaborated because of the possibility that both public notebooks and judges who are competent for over-contract can interpret this provision in different ways, because they may not have enough experience in these areas. I therefore believe that we will propose, to submit an amendment to this article, that it may be necessary to add that the contract should be registered and that apartments and constructions or if the question is more a residential facility or an individual object, that the compensation for the construction land is settled or paid. It is mandatory to put it in a contract and that, of course, parties should give consent to that. I think that if the budget were to become a block away, in the poor interpretation of this member and the inability to sell apartments in the building would have caused a number of other consequences, there might first be a re-entry of citizens into some grey area of business when real estate is questionable, and that would lead to multiple sales of apartments and other immovableities, or there may be a risk of reduced creditworthiness of business banks etc. Also, I have to point out, although this is not the subject of today's amendments and the addition of laws, but it's a really big problem in places where there are no public records and where there are several months waiting on the contract's overrun. The parties in such places, citizens, have indeed great problems and major objections. I think there's a kind of mistrust in the legal justice system in this situation, and I really don't know how, but it would be necessary to find a solution to this kind of problem. These legal solutions are important and good. They allow the principles to be preserved that the creation of a contract is entrusted to one who has the most trust and represents a defence of the right to choice and competition, which is in the best interests of the citizens, and I am convinced that the interest of citizens is a priority for all of us. The question is the laws which are particularly important for the area and the activity of the immovable traffic. They are important for the lives of citizens, for the normal functioning of legal traffic and legal system in general and important for all those involved in either the right or the traffic of immovable property in any form, whether they are lawyers, immovable agencies, construction industry etc. It is important that both lawyers and the Justice Department have found the best common solution. It is important that the Ministry of Justice recognized and protected the interest of the citizens. And of course, above all, it is important for the government to continue the reform process. In particular, judicial reform and strengthening the rule of law depend on progress and the opening of chapters in Serbia and the EU's negotiations are important. In the case of immovableity, there is another problem that needs to be eliminated as soon as possible, namely, that the Immobility Transport Act prevents the implementation of provisions of the Implementing and Security Act, because according to the provisions of the Law, it is no longer legally possible to conclude an agreement on a direct contract before a court in an executive procedure, because only a public notary record is the basis for obtaining property rights. This represents another blockade of the legal system, because the law on enforcement and security does not know the public records, and the Law on Transport of Immobilities does not know the institutes needed to implement the provisions of the Law on Implementation and Security. As the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Neđo Jovanovic said, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support a set of proposed laws and will, of course, support and future all reform laws that will lead Serbia's progress and prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20235	Thank you. Biljana Hasanovic, your head of the parliamentary group, has wasted its time. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20236	Mr. Chairman, the honourable representatives of the Ministry of Justice, respected colleagues and colleagues lawyers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have devoted this day to the debate on the proposal for a set of laws that stem from one, which is the parent law concerning the amendment and addition of the Law on Public Notes. I would remind the public and the citizens of Serbia, that the amendments to this law refer to the law that was passed on May 5th 2011, that that law was passed at a time when the Democratic Party was the headquarters of the republic's government and when someone else was the minister of justice, not Mr Nikola Selakovic, for whom I voted twice in 2012 and 2014, and I am sure that some other MPs would vote for him and in the next term, because I am sure that in the last ten years we have not had a better justice minister than Mr Nikola Selakovic. He enjoys the undivided support of the SNS parliamentary group and there is no doubt there. All his associates participated in the talks, especially the professional part of the Justice Department, along with the expert commission delegated by the lawyer, which we lawyers have delegated. I am very grateful for that, because you are one step at a time smart, thoughtful, without bombings in the media, without prejudged the final solution, even when you agreed you did not make an official statement, you said – we will go to parliament, we will make a proposal to the government. The government is entirely what you and the esteemed fellow lawyers who were representatives of all of us, eight and a half thousand Serbian lawyers agreed on. That text was adopted by the government without a point, without a score, not a single word was changed, and now it is here before us. The only thing that touches me, which is the discussion of some MPs who participated in the adoption of such a law, I would say this is the kind of law that we are changing today, against whom the lawyers were then not loudly, not strike in 2011, now strike and suspending work, that they are now putting aside our lawyers, protecting our interests, they are the ones who say this is the capitulation of the minister of justice. I think this is the capitulation of the then minister of justice and then the government of Mr. Cvetkovic, and today what can be called a compromise, a drop in both sides, and what I am also looking forward to is that lawyers have quietly given up on the third request, and this is a request for the resignation or replacement of the minister of justice, but it is insisted that those who won 6% of the votes in the last elections. What are you going to do, “what happened to Grandma? ” They asked for it, but it might be better to ask their leader, who has been Prime Minister in Vojvodina for 15 years and who has been using all the resources and authorities and businesses and finance, for the last 15 years, I have been repeating with 6% of the vote. What most of our fellow MPs pointed out today, and that's what I'm saying, I think the notary tariff is too high, in some segments no, in some segments yes. In those parts where it's very often repeated, which are the overtures of certain statements, these are the certificates of certain papers, transcripts, signatures, it's from 285 dinars as early as it was increased to 1,800. The authority given by another parent to leave one parent with a child outside the country is now over 4,000 dinars. In this sense, my appeal as both a lawyer and a national MP and as a citizen of Serbia to reduce the notary tariff in that part, is back to the amount that was until 1 September 2014 and thus the last odym that exists in the public domain, as regards the return of the notary system to Serbia, will be removed. We have forgotten that 70 years ago there is a notary system, and I would also remind the public that we are the last Republic in this part of Europe to adopt a notary system, which has come to life and which is needed and for which we all, of course, advocate. I hope you'll have the Minister's hearing about this once we adopt this set of laws, I'm sure we'll adopt them on Wednesday to make some efforts in that part too. I think you've been through all these negotiations and talks, and it's a tough word to negotiate, because there's no war here or any conflict, although I think we're over-slave four full, here we go in the fifth month and we're off duty. I think that the lawyers here, fighting for their rights, have done themselves the greatest damage in financial terms, but that is why, in a moral sense, they have come to a certain victory, to confirm that they were in one part right, which is that the notary or the Law on Public Logs, which I repeat in 2011, and for which no blame, in fact, no responsibility has been given by the current minister of justice, we have accepted it, and as a parliamentary group we will certainly give our vote in the day of voting for this law, as you have suggested. Also, I appreciate that you have succeeded in these talks to accept something that is not required at the beginning of the strike, which is to withdraw from the procedure of the draft law on providing free legal assistance and I think that in the next period with the expert team from the law, you will be able to draw out the best possible text, which will come before the MPs and where after that there will be no resistance from any branch, no esnafic organization, especially not a lawyer, because you have to admit that it practically reduces the lawyer's room. I understand colleagues who deal with this kind of lawyerry or that part of the lawyership that the appearance of notaries is threatening in financial and business terms and it is quite clear that they are all fighting for some of their rights. Even if this law is added to it, which is the draft, but I repeat, I am glad that it has been withdrawn and that it will only be discussed for free legal aid, because then indeed, if it were adopted to the extent that it would not be appropriate for a lawyer to be threatened in some way and the lives of many lawyers. I'm sorry that many young lawyers for these four months, not earning a single penny, have owed themselves through not paying rent for the bars, through taxes, through contributions, through heating. The most fertile months in law in September, October, November, December, are behind us. We didn't do anything. We old lawyers that we've been doing business for years, so I can say that we haven't felt this, although it hurts, believe me, if you don't get paid for four months, and we don't get paid. It's hard if you go to your office she's a mess. You can't go to court. I did not go to court for four months as a lawyer. I felt I couldn't be a lawyer without doing the opposite of what my esnaf made as a decision, but at the same time as the MP here on November 3rd and 5th, I fully supported what you gave as a minister, and then we abolished the exclusiveness of the notaries, and then we went out to meet and gave our hand to the lawyers, and then we gave the opportunity to draw up contracts by lawyers, and about the changes in immovableity. It was also your idea that 30 percent of what the notaries charge in the budget, and I see that some have tried to get a little dick with other people's feathers, and that they're taking it up and saying it's one of the successes of this strike, or they stop working. In order to speed up the entry into force of this law, I have given the amendment, of course, using the freedom of the SNS MP not to consult, ask or ask for approval from anyone, and my amendments concern all five amendments to the law amending and supplementing the law, and as regards the start of application, i.e. the beginning of entry into force. My proposal is that it be the next day after the day of publication in the “Official Messenger. ” I'm asking you to think about it as a minister to decide, I won't be angry if you refuse, but I think it would be the highlight of your desire to be a compromise man that you're not someone who's weak because you've given up, but you've just shown all your strength, all your political responsibility and seriousness by accepting everything that your lawyers asked you to do. I'm not scared at all for your position, I'm not afraid at all for the position of SNS. The March-month elections, and then local elections in different municipalities show that a political tsunami called SNS cleans everything up in front of itself, not maybe because we're the best, the smartest, the most beautiful, but because we have one idea, and that's no longer a lie, it's clear to people that we're telling the truth. We are prepared to admit those mistakes we have made, at the same time with all social groups, to enter into dialogue and to do what is best for the citizens of Serbia. And something else that is mine personally, and I want to express my gratitude to you ministers and to your fellow lawyers who have come to this agreement. On behalf of an intern named Vuk Nikolic, who has been a lawyer in my office for two months now, or else it's about my son who never entered the courtroom for these two months because he can't and the sooner we adopt this law, the sooner he enters the courtroom and thinks of one Vuk Nikolic every time you make these decisions. So, in the voting day, the SNS will support a set of these laws that the Ministry of Justice through the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed and on that behalf I thank you as a lawyer, as a national MP and as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20237	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20238	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People, someone mentions today the principle or consistency, because I want to remain principled and consistent I will not only replicate the MPs of the opposition parties to say something that is false, but also those who belong to the party, which I belong to and thanks to who I am in this place where I am. Namely, my esteemed predecessor has said something that is absolutely incorrect, which is an excellent media spin, but if it's really something like that, I'm asking you to officially inform me where a single parent's consent bill is charged for the journey of a child with another parent and a fee of 4,000 dinars. So this isn't a slip, this is absolutely incorrect. To whom it is not clear, it can take a nice rule on fees and prizes and tariffs for the work of public notebooks and will see the value of one note point is 150 dinars, such an overa costs two points. There is a big difference between 300 dinars and 4000 dinars, especially for citizens of Serbia who do not live in economic well-being, especially in a country that struggles to deprive the fiscal deficit and implement a good fiscal consolidation. I'm not going to look at other things that have been said at all, but this is something that a citizen can vote for, to whom he gives his trust, whether he thinks he's going to the elections or not, this is something that anyone can relate equally. I'm asking you if you have information that someone has really tariffd a simple overture of signatures so much, please let me know officially. If you don't own it, then I ask you not to present such things that are obviously materially false. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20239	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20240	Thank you. Dear President, ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Serbian Bar Association, we heard a lot today. At least we've heard the facts, and the facts say the following. At the end of August of last year, therefore, in this mandate of the National Assembly, and not as some like to say "at the time of the DS regime", laws have been amended overnight which, in the official explanation of the same draft laws, contained a sentence to be adopted so that the public-book service could begin working on September 1st 2014. Then and afterwards, many prominent lawyers, professors, protectors of Serbian citizens, the Association of Judges of Serbia, the Law Chamber of Serbia, also warned the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling majority in this National Assembly about the adverse effects of the proposed and later passed laws that they were unconstitutional, that they were not in line with Serbia's legal order. They were reluctant to deny, i.e. the exclusion of the business ability of natural persons to conclude contracts that had been in the domain of private and not public rights for centuries, pointing out all the harmful effects of the state getting involved in something that is private law when this poor one doesn't even come to do what her job is, it has been pointed out that the legal security of citizens has been violated, because by 1 September 2014, we will agree that the vast majority of Serbian citizens didn't even know who the public notebooks are, nor what their business is, nor did they know that in the cities of their residence these public notebooks exist. If there are, where are their offices, so in the first weeks they've been randomly wandering on the route of lawyers-public court notebooks, trying to solve even the most often and banal legal problems they've ever had. You were warned then and after the proposed laws would be important to slow down legal traffic, as it happened, because 94 public notebooks even if they were geniuses, which they were not, are not able and have no capacity to carry out all those jobs that were given to them at the end of August 2014 in jurisdiction, but at that time no one paid attention. You also mention the fees and tariffs of public notebooks. I am surprised that you only learned about it when the public started talking about it, expressing disdain for it, and you and other government members should have thought about it, which has been important since 1 September 2014, the damaged budget of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand and, on the other hand, because it has been possible to enrich a rather small group of people, so few that even their chamber has not been able to establish in accordance with regulations that are then and even now apply. Since there was no hearing in either the Ministry of Justice or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, lawyers seem to be the best organised and bravest part of the society have begun to suspend work, first Belgrade's Bar of Lawyers, and then 17 September and all other legal chambers. Instead of the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia worrying about the fact that 8,000 people in this country have suspended their work, that they want to discuss with you some problems concerning the legal order of Serbia, they first encountered a large wall of silence and ignoring. I wish that ignore had lasted, but it didn't. Ignoring wasn't wise, but it certainly would have been wiser if you'd just ignored everything you did afterwards, and you did, for example. That the Government of the Republic of Serbia put out of force a manual at one of its sessions, which it did not even bring, but did so by a chamber in accordance with the law of the prescribed powers. There have been various threats and criminal prosecutions addressed to lawyers because of something that is quite unprofessional, qualified as a obstruction of justice, there have been attempts to establish various interesting associations of lawyers who have made an impression in public that a para-commodation system is being set up that is being entered by lawyers who are against the suspension of work. There have been tabloid attempts to personally and professionally discredit many fellow lawyers and to undermine the reputation of the entire profession through the collapse of their reputation. There has been encouragement and encouragement from some lawyers to, among other things, organised and in the hall of this National Assembly, defiantly get to know the public about how they do not respect the decisions of the chambers, whose members, but that they work uninterruptedly, but after that it turns out that they are not only members of chambers, but also political parties, and apparently gave priority to party and not to legal legitimacy. So, it was all just that there was no desire to solve the problem. In December 2014 as thunder from the clear sky, you decide to start negotiations. I ask you, Minister, what is it that led to the same ministry that has been refusing to talk for months now deciding to talk? What was it that existed in December and it didn't exist in September or October or November? What's this new situation? What's this new incentive? Is it perhaps some kind of puck from the EU or whatever? You are a public official and you are obliged to inform the public about how the problem has arisen, why has it not been solved, or why has its resolution lasted long and how do you plan to resolve all the consequences of your actions? I will not return in this discussion to how mine and your debate ran in late August or November. I just want to say that the proposals I made back then, you refused, although today you are proposing the same proposals, and I think it's your turn to answer the questions I asked you, and because of the short time left, I can't keep talking, to apologize to the citizens of Serbia for the legal chaos you've caused, and I hope the resignation is understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20241	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20242	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of the fact that in the principle of debate, I have made an unequivocal and explicit position of the SPS parliamentary group on unreserved support for the proposed laws and the proposed set of laws, I would like to return exclusively to the field of expertise and to consider from the point of view what might be useful for future action when it comes to any improvement in the quality of this law, and it is doubtless necessary to do so. I purposely said that the legislative process is an evolutionary process in which we are obliged to monitor whether laws in practical terms meet the needs of life, and above all whether they satisfy the interests of citizens. That's why I want to point out specifically what seems to me to be left unsaid and how useful it might be in the future. It is about judicial protection, which represents one of the most qualitative moves in terms of changes in the law itself in relation to earlier legislation, given that courts also perform and protect the party from illegal work of a public notary, while at the same time in a way controlling the work of a public notary. One logical question is raised – if a public notebook makes a solution that refuses to verify the legalisation or issue of a public record, within what time? That deadline has not been defined. The profession in the general sense of the word, the legal profession that I was talking to when we all supported these laws together, has made one kind of proposal that this deadline should be as short as possible. That period shall also include the duty of a public notary or notary to provide the party with a solution laying down by a party's request or request with respect to that time limit. It is obvious that you should continue to work on these laws on this subject. My colleague Backovic, I hope that we could achieve a kind of consensus there, at least in that procedural legal sense of the word. As for the difference between the non-public and public documents, it is in principle defined, although the profession has indicated that there may be more precise clarifications about what is public and what is not public. What I am suggested to be introduced, I will determine myself, you will not resent what I am going to do for you, to define myself when it is in charge of the basics, and when it is in charge of a senior court, because only the court is mentioned in the text of the law, without the designation of jurisdiction of the courts of general jurisdiction. Of course, it must be a basic court in the first degree and of course it must be a higher court in the second degree, given the indisputable fact that the public register is appointed according to the seat of the court, not the seat of the courts. Therefore, there is no need for intervention in this direction. All that I've pointed out has an exclusively good intention to improve the quality of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20243	The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20244	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens, a set of laws that we are discussing in principle is the consequence of the first negotiations, and then the agreement of the Ministry and the Bar of Lawyers and as such are certainly in the interest of the citizens, and there is no doubt about that. Negotiations were long. Four months is a fact, and no one's contesting it. But what's important is that this government, that this ministry, this Assembly, has the power to present all the proposed reforms. This is certainly a democratic process, no matter what the strike is, and it is a form of democratic struggle. There's been a solution. At that moment it couldn't have been different, but certainly, what matters is that from tomorrow, that is. As of Wednesday, when these laws are passed, order and peace will return to a very important area of the state, which is the area of the judiciary. You, respected gentlemen of the opposition, are, of course, disturbed by the changes. We are ready to change whatever it takes to make the citizens live better. If the former authorities had heard and changed from 2000 to here, they would probably have prevented many abuses and the destruction of the country that lasted for years, and precisely for reasons of not changing the law, and perhaps even the law relating to judicial practice, or courts, there was a situation in which there was no other solution than to give their vote to others who believe and who will lead them to a better and fairer future. My previous colleague said that we are making some decisions that are not in line with European values. This is certainly a decision that is in accordance with the law and decisions to be applied. I would rather say that the decisions they ruled for many years back than not with European values, they were above all not focused on the values of citizens. They were just in the spirit of doing those things that helped 3,000 companies, that a large number of public enterprises, judiciary, health, education, economy, agriculture, come to the lowest branches. It simply collapsed year after year and if no change of government had occurred in 2012, the question is how would this country end. The question arises – who is responsible? The responsibility for the laws passed is certainly not just at the Justice Department. The responsibility is in this government, it is also in this Assembly and no one in our ranks will say after a few months or after a few days – no, I am not responsible. Everyone who votes for this bill is responsible, and here I am among them. For something we do, we bear full responsibility. For this reason, I don't see why members of the former government keep talking about citizens having short minds? On the contrary, they do not have a brief mind. They know well and well who he is and what he did for them, and they voted accordingly. Everyone has a right to their own opinion and it's not at all controversial, but when someone has no arguments, he tries to raise his voice and make noises. That's just talking about him, not us. What I'm trying to say is that I'm going to bring the show to an end, because the predecessors said a lot before me. Of course, the minister explained everything he needed. The battle, gentlemen of the opposition, has lost you and, of course, an apology to the citizens for everything they've done since 2000 you've had. You need to make an apology. If we are to do justice, and justice is slow but affordable, the resignation should not be given by Minister Selakovic, but by members of the opposition, who, all together, because there are so many of you, I cannot remember how many parties came from the DS. And you've realized yourself that this idea isn't exactly applicable in these areas. All together, the census group, you owe an apology to the citizens for everything from 2000 to today. As far as this set of laws is concerned, I'm glad most of us are in this assembly for it. This only shows that this law, along with some longer and harder negotiations, is still adopted, or will be adopted and that citizens will have all legal protection, most importantly at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20245	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. You have three minutes and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20246	Thank you. I've had enough. Several MPs, the minister himself, said at the beginning of his presentation that these laws were the fruit of some four-month negotiations and a protest of lawyers, for whom he failed to find justification in some other times, although the fact that the strike began in these times and that the lawyers themselves were very clear about what they were protesting. Let's see, Mr. Selakovic, what you did during those four months and how you acted, because that is crucial, to the one question that you today must give the citizens an answer. You were the first to insult these people, threaten them with criminal charges, disrespect them, criminalize them. You've created some paracomoric system of your party colleagues, so you've sent false statements about how the deal was reached, which you've denied after the bar, so you've accused them of fighting corruption, so you've changed the laws without any agreement with them, so you've been coerced citizens into lawyers, telling them that lawyers are the sole culprits for all the troubles they've encountered in life, so you've accused them of working for Miskovic, and since you've said yourself and several MPs have said that this proposal that you went out with today is no different from what the lawyers have suggested, and we have a very important question that you have already failed to answer – did Mr. Selakovic, that Miskovic or the lawyers have been right all along, and you've been instigating four months and you've created chaos in this country? If you convinced the mercenaries of Miroslav Miskovic to accept their evil and selfish demands, how you represented them in your own time when the strike began and when you saw that you would not be able to ignore it, then you know, Mr Selakovic, what do you do. On the other hand, if lawyers were right all along, and you were citizens of this country for four and a half months in such a way, then you also know what to do to you, Mr. Selakovic, only before you have to apologize to those people you have so offended and to apologize to the citizens for not having had access to the judiciary for four months and for the damage that occurred at the time, and it is estimated that it is also several hundred million euros for these four months. In any case, and that Miskovic won and that you've gone along, knowing that the lawyers are right, your resignation is the only honorable way out of it, and while in resignations, you can very well organise protests in front of the government of Vojvodina, because what you've proposed as a minister, to organise these protests, it's a scandal in itself and there's another reason to resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20247	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20248	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already reacted once when one of the predecessors is very tending, very skillful, since it seems to some that he's going out of his hands and trying to throw out my words. I also said to repeat it once again, to whom it didn't reach the ear and the brain could take stenographic notes and read it. I said – there is no problem in organising a protest in front of the province government building, but we are not doing it because we are the government that has the democratic capacity to discuss problems. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place, what day did you say that? I said that today. Anyone who doesn't know can take a look at it without any trouble. So, I said it today, that's what I'm behind. You know, I take something I like, I throw away something I don't like, and then I introduce, you see who it is and what it's like. I know that there are those who are so wrong, that the Ministry and the Attorney General agreed on something. I'm glad there are those who are wrong about it. I'm glad, because it just shows how much of the deal we've come to, no matter how hard it was to get to it, what it's worth. It's something I'm so happy about. As long as there are those who are wrong about what the lawyers are going to do, what the courts are going to do, what the prosecutors are going to do, or rather, to keep working from the moment they left, well, so far my message will always be, I am not doing my own political and other responsibilities either, nor am I afraid, and as a great and supporter of the parliamentary system, I call on anyone who has something against me personally, who thinks that I am not doing my job right, to initiate the procedure for my shift. I have absolutely no problem. I'd say, as I just said about one other thing, and now I'd be too ashamed to sit here, and if my party had 6% support in the electoral body, and let's say I'm Prime Minister, let's say I grew up with the chair I'm sitting in, and that for a decade and a half, no one can get me out of there, even if it was citizens who express their democratic will in the elections. As long as they are against me, I will know that I am still, as far as possible, doing my job with honor and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20249	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20250	Dear Chairman, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, relating to Article 108, because Minister Selakovic rudely violated the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have certainly noticed it. As Mr. Selakovic used to say - it doesn't matter what they say, it matters who they talk about. This time it was about how he talks. Mr Selakovic mocked the speech of Vojvodina, all the people living in Vojvodina regardless of their nationality, in the worst possible way. In the worst possible way by replicating Miss Jerkov. He made a mockery of the Duke's speech, the speech of the people who speak in Vojvodina. You were the chairman's duty to warn him. That's not right, not when it comes to MPs, not when it comes to the people from the gallery who are watching us, and I think you've had to give the Minister notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20251	Mr. Veselinovicu, I am, I can accept that I'm a little deaf, but that I'm so deaf, especially if the minister is sitting here, I'm not. And I have to tell you that you really hurt me right now. I didn't conclude at all at any point that the minister was throwing himself out... (Janko Vesenović, from the scene: Because you did not listen. That's not true. I listened carefully, and don't, I always listen here. What you think I'm not listening to, that's your problem. I don't think there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure at all, and you had no basis, the minister was just answering, maybe it didn't suit you (Janko Veselinović, from the scene: The viewers heard, the viewers heard, it was nice to hear. ) Please, I've listened to you all the way, be patient too. He responded to demands that he resign and logically it was that he also gave an explanation of why he didn't think he should resign. That's why I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. And besides, you can plead if you want to vote on it? Yes or no? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20252	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Mr. Chairman, have been injured by a member of the 107th, and that cruel dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. As far as I know, there are no duchess in the sense of a nation, nor is there a duchess tongue. Serbs, Hungarians, Croats, Slovaks live in Vojvodina. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS will do everything possible to keep these people living in harmony and peace. But, please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't make up a new nation. We're divided enough as a nation, divided. Enough artificial nations are created when it comes to the Serbian people. Speaking of the duchess language, I don't think you speak him very well either. As a learned man, you should know that Vojvodina is an administrative territorial unit, but that people living in Vojvodina by nationality are not Vojvodinas, such nationality does not exist, nor does there exist a duke's dam, such as there is neither a forest language, nor a sea language, nor a Kosovo language, nor any other language. There is a Serbian language, a Cyrillic letter, a Latin letter is used in accordance with the law, and all those living in Vojvodina belong to a certain ethnic, or religious group. The fact that you tried to tell the minister that he allegedly was making a mockery of Vojvodina, that's not true. The minister tried to affirm the right of the people of Vojvodina to change power, which the citizens of Vojvodina showed in the elections...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20253	MP, it's been two minutes. It is that it was addressed to the previous chairman, referring to the violation of article 107, that the speaker who spoke the Vojvodina languages had thus violated the dignity of the National Assembly, and the chairman had to act. I'm not going to comment on that, I just wish we'd heard a good letter from Gordana Komic, when she asked that when someone explained the breach of the Rules of Procedure and used two minutes the way they wanted. Right? And we've done the same thing now, so we're going to try, or I'm going to do it all the time, to wait and then answer. I accept the suggestions of Mrs Gordana Komic and applies to everything. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I received the same warning. Do you want to make a statement about the injury? No, I don't. I'm not paying attention at the cry. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I received the same warning. I don't know that you got a warning, I wasn't there. Ambassador, you're just throwing away, I don't know what's going on with you lately. I can't communicate like that. I don't know what's wrong with you either. ) The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20254	Madam President, you weren't here, but I called right after the minister said. I want to point to the breach of Rules of Procedure, paragraphs 106 and 107. One speaks of keeping a strict agenda and a subject on the agenda. During the entire session, the minister talked about everything around and had direct dealings with certain people of a political nature who were not in line with our topic today. The second thing, of course, concerns what is called the dignity of the congregation. The minister can't say - I'd be ashamed, it'd be a shame if I had 6% of the votes. No one who has 1% of the vote is ashamed of it, but also one who has 100% of the votes... (Zoran Babic, from the post: But the government with 6%. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20255	Let the MP go, please, just two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20256	You want to calm them down, please. ... And whoever has 100% of the votes shouldn't be proud of them. Political pluralism and the existence of the opposition and positions are crucial to democracy. If there is no other argument at any moment, but quantitatively as many MPs as anyone has, we introduce inequality to the Assembly in the debate and, most importantly, inequality over arguments. It doesn't have to be someone right if they have 60%, and the other one has 10%, it's about arguments. I ask you to remind the MPs who are also coming out of the agenda and to warn Mr. Minister that he is choosing words that today, unfortunately, I can understand his condition, but he did not choose words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20257	Thank you, Professor. I already explained article 107. Article 106, just on the agenda point, I can tell you that all MPs have come up quite a bit here, and there have been more talk about politics and political responsibilities than the standards of the amendments and the additions that we have before us. So, in part, I agree with you, but I don't think any of the chairmans have overstepped or hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want us to vote on the violations of Members 106 and 107? (No) I thank you. We're going back to the replica, and there's Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20258	Thank you, Madam President. Unfortunately, the minister did not answer the most important issue on the agenda. Were the lawyers right for four months, Mr. Selakovic, and you were stubborn, or did you finally give in to the pressures of Miskovic's mercenaries? Either way, resignation is the only honorable way out of this situation. And it's sad that you're only talking about your shift, not your resignations, which is two very different things, as if you don't realize that you can resign on your own whether or not someone is going to initiate your shift. In case the lawyers were right, that they were not Miskovic's mercenaries and that they were not people who opposed the fight against corruption, then you are obliged to apologize to these people sitting up there, you are obliged to apologize to the citizens, because in that case you are the cause of all the chaos that has ruled in this country for four months. When you speak of the government of Vojvodina, there is no Democratic Party 6%, but the Democratic Party has 59 seats in the election for the AP Vojvodina Assembly. Your party, Mr Selakovic, has 24 seats in the AP Vojvodina Assembly elections. From 24 to 61, Mr Selakovic, it is still a little too much to buy and blackmail and intimidate and everything else you do to get MPs in the AP Vojvodina Assembly to leave the Democratic Party Parliament Club and join yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20259	Thank you. The word has a two-minute replica because it's not about the subject, but about the replica to answer this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20260	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no problem with Miroslav Miskovic, nor resisting the pressure of his mercenaries, as someone calls them in previous exhibitions. I don't have because I was a member of the government that was elected first in 2012, and then in 2014, which was not elected by Miroslav Miskovic after a long, long time, and in it he didn't ask for a single minister to whom he would be headed and what he would be. That the lawyers had things they were right about, they were. They also had some things that we thought were wrong. The fact that we have come to a compromise testifys precisely to that. As for the cause of chaos, powerlessness, illegal conduct, the end result of something, you know, not just to say one piece of the sentence again in that manner, but not another part of the sentence. So, for 15 years, someone grew up in the chair where he was, like, what the people said, he stayed in his grandmother's room and didn't think to get up from there. If there had been a speck of political responsibility the moment the Constitutional Court gave a convincing majority of the provisions of the Statute of the AP Vojvodina to the unconstitutional, the one who created it would have gone to the elections. Is that such a problem? If you are confident, 59 terms of office, then go straight to the polls and get your approval for the 59th term. It's not a problem. One more thing. Who does not know the Serbian language, the literary dialect, are equal to the Woodland-Vojvodian and East-Herzegovic. That's what you learn in the fourth grade of elementary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20261	Thank you. We're going back to the agenda and the speaker list. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20262	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to admit, I don't know why anyone would be ashamed if he was a lawyer, in any case, including the Miroslav Miskovic case. It's his right, it's his job. Is he doing something extra to defend his client, or even some of these things he uses as this strike, it's something else and someone else is questioning. I can't think of anyone to invest. What I've been saying today, I'm thinking, but I have to ask a question to a respected minister who's here. I'd like you to explain to me, Mr. Minister, since I, unlike my colleagues across the street, have carefully read these bill proposals and I don't understand one thing, why was there a strike at all, and why might there be no strike in the future? Because what's accepted is essentially something that the Justice Department has only made a little bit more precise than it used to be. If that was the point in this Immobility Transport Act, I agree. This is a good, qualitative change, but now I have to ask you a question. There's some lawyers here. If we're talking about the bar, we can't talk about all the lawyers. You have the executives of the Bar of Lawyers who were mostly for strike, and you have a huge number of lawyers who were not for strike, so some are excluded from the Bar of Lawyers, in my opinion, against one constitutional norm that stands in the Statute of the Bar Association, that if you disagree with the leadership they can throw you out and take bread from your mouth. I'm now interested in what happens to the lawyers who were kicked out of the bar? You have this criminal lawyer who doesn't care at all. Then why did someone strike and lead these people to the edge of existence, to get what's essentially just improved by the government today? It's been specified something that was actually brought in in November. I can only commend you on this. Whoever carefully reads the law, this is something that really is a good compromise between lawyers themselves, notaries and the Justice Department. That's the essence of the whole story, and it's good to have that three-way compromise. It's something that's really commendable, but we have to ask what's going to happen now to people who are being expelled from the bar? Someone took the bread out of their mouths. What does that look like? Imagine, for example, that you're a doctor and you're a member of the Medical Chamber and someone just kicks you out of the Medical Chamber and says you can't be a doctor anymore. That's totally amazing, that provision. Of course, we can't interfere in the work of the Bar Association, but it's not normal. That's something that's gotta change. Of course, someone else should be estimating it by now. But I'm asking you now, I'm really interested in this, some people have lost their existence, and that's something that's very important. This, of course, I'm going to say hello and I'm sure I'll vote just like all SNS MPs. These are really good changes in terms of detailing something that was still brought in November. I don't think there was any need to strike at all, it could have been arranged that someone had the will on the other side, not on the side of the government, but on the other hand it could have been arranged in ten minutes, but someone might have wanted to strike and make this whole circus. In any case, thank the Serbian government for doing something like this, which made this good compromise between lawyers, notaries and the government itself and, of course, that this would be supported by the absolute majority, and I believe, of course, by colleagues from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20263	The word has a National MP Ljubisa Stojmirović, and let Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20264	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in ancient times the famous Solomon said – where there is much wisdom, there is much to worry about. We live in a time that requires us to be wise, to be reasonable, and thus we are put before many worries. In order to solve all of our problems, we should face problems, not wait for them to accumulate and turn into a crisis. There's no point in me commenting on this agreement between the ministry and the lawyers, because as soon as an agreement is reached, it means it's something they wanted. By the way, I think they've met the goal they've set for each other. Two things cheer me up that the minister said. One is that the fees for the overes and the simplest services will be as they were until September 1st, or even lower. I just don't understand whether the municipalities and courts are still going to do it, because I think it's too big a job to be able to do it just the notaries. I know an example from my profession and my practice where over the years students are very often in a situation where they have to verify photocopies of diplomas, testimonials, etc. And that would be a big problem for them if it just went to the notaries. On the other hand, the minister said that compensation for an overrun of some contracts, he mentioned a fivem-euro figure, would be increased. I think it's very little, so it doesn't matter how much compensation it's going to be, but I believe it's going to be under some normal conditions, too. We had the opportunity here today to very often refer to some of the bill's proposals from earlier times and to say that these laws were bad and that it was some excuse for us. I don't agree with that. If something was wrong in the previous period and if it was bad for colleagues who were in power in the previous period, it must not be an excuse for us. I don't want to compare myself to the bad ones, and I don't want to compare myself to those who weren't good. I want to compare myself to the best and be the best among the best, and I think that should be a guide for all of us. Two more things to say. It is mentioned on several occasions that the lawyership is an honorable profession, that notaries are an honorable profession, I agree in that part, but people, all professions are honorable if those who perform these professions do a fair and honest job. When I go, I'm very often in Grocko, and whenever I start from Groca, there's this famous Mile, the famous lawyer Grocanski who always says hello to me and says, "Professor, have a happy trip and everything you do is fair and honest." Well, I hope that's how we should all do it, after all, we MPs here have sworn an oath that ultimately says that everything we do is in the interests of the Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20265	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20266	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, the Honorable Representatives of the Law Chamber of Justice of Serbia, we have before us the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Records as well as a set of accompanying laws that are actually derived from this law that is on the roof. What I want first to point out is that this government, as well as the competent ministry, has shown enormous democratic capacity in such a way that it did not want to push things under the carpet but to remove them and to find a compromise solution in a democratic dialogue with representatives of the notaries and the ministry as a representative of the Government, and the ultimate objective of this compromise solution is actually the well-being of citizens and the functioning of the judicial system in an effective way. Of course, lawyers and how significant part of the judicial branch of the government and how their discussion and joint work in achieving a common and compromise solution with the government representatives were of great importance, i.e. the competent ministry. However, I will focus on what has been established by the Public Note Act to establish itself as a public record, and for the most part because I believe that this way further achieves the legal certainty of the most vulnerable part of society, which is the legal security of business incompetent persons, then the legal certainty of those who do not see, hear, speak, do not know how to read and write. Legal certainty relating to family law, i.e. a maintenance agreement as well as contracts relating to mortgages and publishing statements, provided that there is a declaration relating to enforcement. I would also like to stress that they amend and supplement the law relating to family law, which concerns the addition of Article 51. The family law refers in fact to the fact that the recognition of paternity can be carried out both in front of the parent and the competent authority of custody, or in front of the competent court and in front of the competent public notary. We know that the recognition of paternity is, in fact, the right to apply to the children's rights corpus, that these rights are particularly protected by family law, that children have the right to their identity and that extending the statement to the public notary when it comes to the recognition of paternity and that it is of great importance. I want to stress the amendment of Article 161. Family law, which refers to a maintenance agreement that is also a public notary's obligation. This maintenance agreement is mainly about underage children, persons incapacitated, or adult persons, but incapacitated or unable to work and attract. Of course, I would also like to express all the congratulations to the Minister of Justice who in one responsible way approached this issue and approached the amendments and amendments to the law as well as to the complete government. In fact, the complete government inherited the most ruined economic system, i.e. it did not inherit the economic system at all, and you, Mr. Minister, inherited the most ruined judicial system, because after the 837 reform, the judges were out of work, and those who were concerned about the availability of justice were brought to justice by courts from certain municipalities in which they were 70 years old, so that citizens of certain municipalities such as Priboj had to cross the state border four times and travel 60 kilometers to the nearest court. Fortunately, you made that correction. There's no doubt that the SNS in the voting day will support all these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20267	The People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic has the word, and let Marijan Risticevic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20268	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, the Honorable Guests of the Ministry of Justice and the Honorable Representatives of Lawyerry here today for our debate in the Assembly on six draft laws, I would like to announce eleven thesis, honourable Members of the People's Parliament on the irresponsible Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic. Thesis number 1 respected gentlemen -- Minister Nikola Selakovic changes the rules on the work of public notebooks for the third time in four and a half months. What would it be like if each minister followed the example of Minister Selakovic, to imagine a little about it. The second thesis – the changes so far, the rules on the work of public notaries advocated by Minister Nikola Selakovic, were followed by legitimate doubts about the impartiality of the choice of notaries, in corrupt activities in the process of selecting notaries, and in disregard of the law in the process of selecting notaries. The third thesis of respected gentlemen - the immoderate wealth of notaries came upon the otium of citizens who either paid too much taxes, or they could not find a notary, and those citizens who found themselves in such trouble, as far as I understand, will not compensate for this damage. The fourth thesis – thanks to Minister Nikola Selakovic, otherwise to the honorable profession of notaries, as we could have heard here many times today it will take years for me to understand, to consolidate in our country. The Fifth Thesis Honored Gentlemen – I highly appreciate the protest of lawyers because it was led on behalf of legal certainty and on behalf of the rule of law. The sixth thesis – I condemn you first of all, Minister Selakovic for having ours, and for objecting and proposing lawyers, in one arrogant way, by my court, Mr Selakovic. The seventh thesis – Minister Selakoviću, gentlemen of the lawyers who follow this debate from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly, is important to know that one law cannot make a deal between the minister and the representative of a profession. The 8th Thesis Honored Gentlemen - I am now focusing first and foremost on the Members of the People's Parliament, the law is always about meeting the interests of the addressee, and the addressees are fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia. The ninth thesis of gentlemen and Mr Babić - MPs of the New Party Zoran Zivkovic and I, we have submitted six amendments, which, by my court, improve the draft laws on amendments to the Law on Public Registration and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport of Immobility. Our court final and vote on these bill proposals will depend on the government's position and Minister Selakovic's in relation to the amendments we have submitted. The 10th Thesis of Honored Gentlemen – Minister Selakovic, I believe that you have a very good cause for a kind of adjudication now for reviewing and your roles in creating a kind of judicial chaos that we have and which I also believe Mr Selakovic should lead this type of review to an account for such a type of action right here in our National Assembly that we agreed on a month or two ago when we discussed this same subject to represent a central political institution in our constitutional system. We say – the sanctuary of political life. The 11th thesis of gentlemen -- besides Minister Selakovic, I think also Prime Minister Vukic and I think about all this, and based on the review, they should resign respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20269	Marijan Rističević. Here you go. Have Alexander Jovic get ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I must remind once again that this basic law was passed in 2011. So that year, when those who are now resented shared the pain of the dead presidents, what we are resented today for some coalition relations. That law has been corrected many times by the truth. I've had a lot of grudges about this law and the following laws before. My objection was, above all, to the level of tax and public -- notable awards, especially to the transfer of rights when it comes to agricultural land, and to the lending of mortgages on agricultural land, to restore production. I don't blame lawyers, so they fought for their rights. There are more than ten of them in parliament. They make up 20,000 lawyers, so there are about 0.3 to 0.4% of the population, and they are represented here with more than 10 lawyers representing both lawyers and citizens. Regardless of what I think their right is legitimate, let's say that we farmers remain only me and Mr. Zivkovic, who was, in fact, a farmer in an attempt. So there's two million of us, we have one, possibly another representative who's a peasant from the city, who, by his narrow profession, is a winemaker. Now imagine what we should do about our rights. Imagine now if we started a peasant chamber. Imagine if in the same way, and I claim that our lawyers are not guilty, we, as the leadership of that peasant chamber, decided that there is no more meat, no more milk, no more bread, no more fruit, no more vegetables, unless the decisions of that peasant agricultural chamber are respected. He who brings forth fruit and vegetables or some food must be punished. What do I mean by this? No matter what I give my lawyers the right to get their results in this way, I wonder what would happen if they did to me, with that in mind, I mean that someone's right can't be the right to restrict the right of others to that same right. So, my regret is that certain lawyers have been banned from their leadership from doing their job that violates the rights of others in order to exercise the rights of those first ones. Also, my complaint, and now that the strike was not about new powers, but rather about me being represented by lawyers, because of the strike declared by the Bar of Lawyers, could no longer be represented by lawyers who had granted me power of attorney representation to the state authorities, is not just courts. So my right has been suspended by someone declaring a strike and even by retroactive powers, so they have declared a strike for representation guaranteed by the power of attorneys and lawyers to clients. So the right of clients is not respected, the right to defend, the right to represent, and that's my grudge still. My grudge is still at tax level. I wish they were lower if possible, but I also have to say -- those who passed a law in 2011 that we had to fix don't know how many times, even now in favour of lawyers who legitimately pushed out their interests. So, those who resent us, resent the minister, I must say, regardless of which I am not a man who gladly defends ministers, that if the minister is guilty then he is guilty of respecting the legal procedure, which he respected the independent judiciary, even those set up in 2009, by the parties of the former regime, which is the judiciary independent of this authority and not from the previous one. He respected it and it's my only fault that maybe I would break the kind of law that the former government has passed, the former regime. I would have replaced all their prosecutors and judges, given the obvious destruction and impunity of the recipient of the transition, which in various ways provided themselves with representation through the election of prosecutors and judges in 2009, as I recall. In such a way, all the winners of the transition and the joint delpocratic criminal enterprise towards the civilian population were unpunished, where the people were brutally robbed because the minister respected the independence of the judiciary and that the judiciary is independent of the current government, but the former government is highly suspected of that independence, and I think that depending on the former authorities and that many investigations are at rest, that prosecutors do not want to process what the police catch and behave in the style of the fishermen, which the police have captured in 2009 the chosen prosecutors and released. So, that my grudge could be the minister why he respected the law, why he didn't even break it, and in a certain way reformed the deformed judiciary and brought it not some real basis. I'll vote for everything, that's what I said when the minister agreed with the lawyers, I said last time I'd vote for any changes that match both sides, so I'll vote for this. What I'm not going to vote for is a Lex individualis who my former colleague has forgotten and is most likely referring to Vojislav Vukcevic, whom I have reason to suspect for meeting with diplomats for the criminal act of spying. The prosecutor in question campaigned in the media saying the campaign was against him. The campaign was for him. So he most likely provided himself with the campaign to carry out his duty by the end of his term. He said the election had to take care of his number of years, but I'm also asking him, if they didn't know who was choosing him how old he was, I guess he knew how old he was when he ran. I will not vote for Vojislav Vukcevic. My finger won't go to the war crimes prosecutor's button, no matter what, I think he's treating the internal justice system. The judiciary acts the way the Hague court treats the United States. In the same way, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has, in my opinion, acted towards the US Embassy, subjectively, committed to delivering the report to them once a month, holding a meeting with foreign diplomats. For such a man, I will not vote at the cost of losing both my finger and my hand, my finger will not go to the vote of Vojislav Vukcevic. Thank you. Vladimir Vukcevic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20271	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic as the last reported debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20272	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, at the very beginning, Mr Selakovic, I would like to congratulate you on your courage and perseverance. Today we heard a wave of attacks against you and whatever you did, they'd find a grudge. If ad hoc had made a decision four months ago, they would have said don't fight for reform, don't fight for system regulation in the judiciary. Now that you've been fighting for it with one constructive proposal, the conversation, they'll say -- well, the four months of the judiciary have been in stalemate, and that's the manner of the opposition that just got out of the room because they obviously don't care, and they've never lasted until the end of a session we've had, but it's about responsibility and how much they really respect parliament and how much they care about reforms in Serbia, how much they care about judicial reform. One MP from the opposition, and since they are gone, I can say which, Borko Stefanovic, because there is no one to replicate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20273	Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20274	I'm sorry, but there's no one to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20275	Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20276	He said our citizens have no memory of a rainworm. I agree just because we don't have a memory of rainworm, remember 2009 and judicial reform. Is it possible that in these amendments to the law in December 2009, the High Court and the State's Chief Prosecutors resolved 837 judges and 220 prosecutors in 2009? The European Union has raised an alarm for this, and today when the EU has not said a word about this situation because it is awaiting a constructive solution, you are being attacked by those who caused such a fire in the judiciary system in 2009. It's one-third of the judges and prosecutors in 2009 who were hit on the street. What do we have next? You know, whatever the DS does has consequences when they leave the government or when they lose the election. Why? Eight hundred and thirty-seven judges and 220 prosecutors sued the state. Millions of compensations were paid from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and we saw how much they were fighting for the 2015 budget and how they had constructive proposals where each amendment was deleted, since they deleted everything that could be deleted when I was talking about privatisations and about 50 billion euros that entered this country, they deleted everything and later, as an opposition, wanted to delete. We don't use that kind of politics. When we also talk about the reform, the EU made a number of remarks back then. For example, there's not been a hearing with any of the subpoenaed judges and prosecutors, is there? That's right. The decisions are not reasoned, they are not told the facts, as if these people were not even in the judicial system. The procedure was completely non-transparent, all in the manner of the former regime. It was DS behavior. Some MPs here said that some notary took 180,000 euros. Let's see the name and name of that notary. We didn't know until today. It means they're used to lies. They want to bring confusion among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in order to slow down reforms, to slow down Serbia finally to move forward, and I am proud that you have insisted on this fight and that you have not given in and that you have not been afraid and succumbed to various spins as you should be replaced tomorrow, the day after that, how incompetent you are, etc. You've shown consistency. When we remember in 2009, these reforms, in 2011, a review was carried out that was completely unsuccessful again, and they didn't know how to do it either, and they couldn't do it either. I also have here a paper that is backed up by an EU report, which is clearly said by the European Commission in 2009 strongly condemned this reform that was party and has inflicted immeasurable damage to the state budget, both reputation and trust in our judicial system. There is no better situation in the 2010 report, where the European Commission reiterated that Serbia has made little progress in harmonising its justice system with European standards. The re-election of judges and prosecutors was carried out in a non-transparent manner, and the independence of the court was compromised. Mr Selakovic, you are fighting for something completely contrary to what I have now read and I support you for it, which is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia supports you. For this reason, you will also be supported by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We've heard so many noises, so many attacks against you that I really couldn't listen to it all day long because we know what happened in Serbia since 2008, and I'm really ashamed to hear it from someone who got involved in a political life a year ago -- two days ago and there are always gaps and we'll make them in the future, but those who broke up the economy, who fired 400,000 workers, who spent hundreds of privatisations completely unsuccessfully, and today, when we want to privatise what's left, they didn't squander in one successful and transparent way, they don't do it either. In addition to everything they've done, they give you a lecture and invite you to resign from those who, with 6% of the authorities, want to hold chairs in the AP Vojvodina, in the government, and that's hypocritical. You know, journalists say -- what is the attitude of the opposition government? I really don't know who the opposition is, can we call someone who's been in power for 15 years three times as long, five times as long as the SNS, the opposition? Can we call the opposition-led AP President, who offers a better life, which offers new jobs, which offers a fight against corruption, although he never said it, because he did everything to make this corruption bigger, is that the opposition that Serbia deserves, as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia deserve? Someone said the tears belonged to one man. Yes, that man went to Kosovo and Metohija ten times last year, while the Prime Minister in the shadows is in the middle of working time going to Kruševac, especially in the shadows, and as we can see, the MPs of his parliamentary group are in the shadows because they cannot wait to sit down until the end of the session and listen to the arguments we have to make. By such a policy, Mr Selakovic and the chairman, the SNS will never lead. I support you for your insistence. Whatever you did, they would say it was incomplete, that it was wrong, that it could have been better, and we saw what a disaster was and what tsunamis they have brought among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia since 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20277	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20278	The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Selakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the attorney profession, I am not like anyone from our parliamentary group happy about this defeat of the government of the Republic of Serbia, because of the defeat of Mr Selakovic, the minister, because of the defeat of the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, who said he was equally responsible as Mr. Selakovic. No one's happy about it, Mr. Selakovic. They don't even look like lawyers. They are concerned about your profession that you have brought into an unenviable position, I would say the most invisible in the history of Serbian lawyerry, a lawyer who has not worked for one third of the year and more than that. She's not happy, as I said, Mr. Selakovic, or the opposition. Why? Because this parliament was defeated, six times in this House, the amendments and additions of the Notary Law, which you did not want to hear, did not want to hear the arguments of the profession, MPs from the opposition. Is it bad if the opposition points to the mistakes you've made. Mr. Selakovic, do you remember our discussions about your amnesty, the general amnesty of prisoners and the release without prior resociation? You didn't want to hear it this time because of stubborn party interests, because of your desire to rush lawyers, to argue with each other and to break them in such a way and that their justified protest and protection of the profession fails and to overcome partial interests, party interests, but also the interests of money, Mr Selakovic. We have discussed many times the profits of notaries that have been inappropriate, not only inappropriate for our conditions in which pensioners barely make ends meet, because you have reduced pensions, where educators barely bring an end to the end, doctors, policemen, workers, or soldiers at permanent employment at the Ministry of Defence. So, we're not happy that justice was defeated and the justice was defeated, in no situation where you promised us the rule of law, the equality of all before the law we had the functioning of the state. How is it possible, Mr Selakovic, that if you hadn't noticed that the pillar of the state, one of the three pillars of the state, the judicial pillar does not work for four months, that, apart from the legislative authority, which is subordinated to the executive power, the judicial authority does not, above all, function because of the interests that were narrowly foreign, Indian and who tried to introduce in this area, I would say, general obedience, i.e. the belief that what one man says is right? Mr. Selakovic, there's been irreparable damage. She's not just material. It is not measured only by millions, hundreds of millions of euros, which are not working in this period of justice caused by the judiciary. It is also measured in moral damage both by lawyers and their associates and by people involved in the legal profession, but I would also say to the moral damage the state has to do because we are a rare case, a rare example of a country where the judicial authority has not functioned for four and a half months. The damage remains, Mr. Selakovic. It's broken, unfortunately, the legal order. The damage will only be collected. We had more expensive services. Your amendments to the law have implemented these services. They hit every man in Serbia, every man who was supposed to go to those 94 public notebooks you named as you named them, or set them up. You have contributed, Mr Selakovic, to an increase in legal uncertainty. You have contributed, Mr Selakovic, to the accumulation of objects only because of incompetence, i.e. because of lack of courage and desire to admit it – I was wrong, let us not do any greater damage. How could you observe those four and a half months to destroy the foundation of why you are in this government, Mr. Selakovic? Mr. Selakovic, I watched you today when you spoke to people at the gallery. How can you address them with your forehead raised when, unfortunately, you have ruined that profession with your statements? You called them Miskovic's mercenaries and people who work in someone else's interest, not the interest of the profession. It would be very good if this debate today ended with your admission that you made a mistake. Your resignation doesn't mean anything to me personally, because, as your party's staff policy is, perhaps a worse minister can come to your place. Anyway, that's what we used to do. However, I would like to tell you that we as a parliamentary group have looked very closely at these amendments and that we have given amendments, above all to protect this agreement reached between the ministry and the lawyers, so that the lawyers will not be deceived again and that, Mr Selakovic, in the notaries, some jobs that are not prohibited in the future, because it is possible that, using my office, I am finishing Mr. Chairman, are also doing some jobs that are not clearly excluded by law. That's why we asked for a guarantee that up to six months you, you or someone else, would come here and file a report on the application of this law, of course, with the prior opinion of the competent authority of the bar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20279	The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20280	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is now at peace with this debate today, and I have listened carefully to all the MPs, I have listened carefully to all the discussions, I once came out of the hall, indeed today from the MPs of the former regime I have not heard a single word about the proposed laws. Six amendments and additions to the law, 35 members are changed, and there is not a single word on the proposed laws. Pure political pamphlets. Clear, watch, you're chasing the minister. Reasons? Who's asking you for reasons? It's important to drop the arrow, throw away the stone. No single suggestion, no single objection to the proposed laws. Some have announced that they will not support what we could see from the list of speakers and have said that they are against these legal solutions, and in their proposals, ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you that in the assembly procedure of the laws proposed by the SDS parliamentary group, in which such brilliant and quality laws are written in such a way that lawyers are baptized as "Avocads" or "avodocate", the southern fruit. Now, so much for respecting that honorable one, I really mean an honorable profession, because there's not a single profession that works in accordance with the law, and it's not honorable, by drivers, conductors, workers, doctors, engineers, lawyers, all people who work in accordance with the law, it's honorary people, honorary representatives of our community. But do not belittle them by running to the congregation office and by calling lawyers avocados or avocados. There was a mention of defeat. When's the compromise defeat? When is the desire to compromise a defeat? When sitting at the same table, and it wasn't easy, I didn't participate, but I also saw representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Justice, representatives of lawyers, in different moods in these months behind us, and when these negotiations went in the right direction and when they didn't go in the right direction, but in this way the democratic power of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry of justice is shown to sit at the same table, to respect these people. Why didn't you, gentlemen of the former regime, see, the former Minister of State came out, why didn't you sit with these people and when it was the Law on Lawyerry, and when the Law on Public Libraries was adopted in 2011? Now things change that are the things of the parent law, the things of 2011. See also all changes in 2012 when only the deadline is extended, one change in 2013 and two in 2014. None of that changes now. The fact that the lawyer at the time showed that there was a lack of logic and irregularities, irregularities were now changed in 2015 and shown in 2011. The only defeat present on Serbia's political scene is the defeat of democracy. The defeat of democracy is when with 6% support, 5.85%, when with 5.85% you have full power in a large part of Serbia, in a wonderful part of Serbia called AP Vojvodina. It's the defeat of democracy. Not a single draft of support, not a single vote in Serbia, should be ashamed. It is pride to have a voice in Serbia and to support a man in Serbia, but we are ashamed of the collapse of democracy when with a incomplete 6% of the government and what the minister said, as if their grandfather was the chair in the bank. I wonder – what was Bojan Pajtic doing on Friday? Did he write himself a travel order and still take a living over all those expenses to keep the political stands in Kruševec? Then he resents the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, for being in Kosovo at the invitation of the people with KIM, with a good part of the ministers. He was Mr. Selakovic, too. It is the first time since 1999 that a Serbian Prime Minister will be and reside in KIM for the first time. Others have announced that they will vote in favour of these bill proposals, but look at the illogicalness, demand the resignation of the one who is such a law for whom they will vote, seeking the resignation of the man. It's not in logic or politics. You support the legislative proposals adopted by the Ministry of Justice, Mr Selakovic, which are the result of a compromise with the lawyer, without a grudge from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you seek the resignation of such a man. Well, what are you against then, personally or because he's a member of the SNS or on a SNS proposal? Then what bothers you, then say what leads you, hate or logic, a desire to settle things in Serbia or a desire for power? We're not in power at 5.85%. They're free on those masts in front of the banin flag like this and like that. Not you people, just take it easy. The third individual said he wasn't either, not against it. He showed the MP individualis and some principles, but I cannot believe those principles until he tells us the name and name of the notaries who earned 180,000 euros in a month. Here for this assembly speaker, the MP said that, but he didn't say his name and last name, and it's been a few months since, which means he lied. If he lied once, he'd lie and lie forever. The situation in the judiciary, it's fortunate that the only problem in the judiciary is the one that's happened in the last four and a half months. The slap on the judiciary, a slap on every man's face in Serbia, was on one show in 2008 when Boris Tadic was in the presidential campaign, visiting on TV with a national frequency, went out and said -- you know, I offered Tomislav Nikolic to appoint some judges, and he didn't want that. Since when does the President of the Republic appoint judges? With what right can Boris Tadic share such things as his grandfather's? How can it affect the independence of an independent branch of government such as the judiciary? How can he share judicial functions? They're laughing at some gentlemen here, I guess. I guess it's something like a good principle of value. A slap of independence of an independent branch, such as the judiciary, was struck in 2008 with such sentences by Boris Tadic. The wound that we're bleeding as a society is still caused when 800 judges and prosecutors are out of work in a party judicial reform. Not that we've been getting pucks as a society not just from Europe, not just from the local community, the international community. I haven't seen, I haven't heard, and I like to hear a good thing about my country. Whether my party in power or not, the good thing about my country cheers me, whoever brought it. I have not heard a single commendable thing about the reform of the judiciary that was carried out in 2009, and the final roundup with the judiciary was made with such documents signed by the chairman of the municipal board of the DS in Vlasotinc and the president of SO Vlasotince. I'm asking you to be careful. I won't mention names, but they suggest, that chairman of the DS municipal board, since all these people are set up and some aren't as unsuitable. He says, for a municipal court judge in Vlasotinc, he's been President of the Court since 2000, breaking between the DSS and the DSS, overcoming the current interest, and is considered a DSS, in principle fair, I don't know what that means in principle fair, either you're honest or you're not fair, but unrequited unconquerable, deserves a chance. The next, getting better than the better, the sympathiser, the wife member of the DS, is immediately honest, valuable, on the side viewed unsuspecting, and directly perhaps corrupt, but on the side unsuspecting. Ten years ago, he's been providing all the legal aid to the DS. You see how this independent judiciary, as it turned out in that reform, provides all legal assistance to the DS. Probably the best in court, ambitious, deserves to progress, interested in an appeal court in Nis, undeniable, provided legal assistance to the DS, undeniable. The next, withdrawn, peaceful, valuable, possibly honest, experienced sympathiser, Mr. Minister, experienced sympathiser, it's a reform, uninterested in politics, former Socialists, co-operates without discussion, undeniable. The next one is unsuspecting, unpromised, probably honest, friendly, always ready for co-operation, apolitical, sympathiser undeniable. The next lady is calm, withdrawn, honest, apolitical. The only flaw - husband, former JUL president. It can't go through. The next, currently executive judge, does not defend the interests of society, corrupt, grammistical person, husband lawyer, working in the process, evil for the judiciary. Husband lawyer, evil for the judiciary. That's how it treats the Democratic Party's lawyer - with respect. The next one is unprofessional, a person with no reputation, probably corrupt, you know, probably, for smaller jobs, strayed among judges, radically in the mood. Public prosecutors - honest, valuable, on the part of the observed unsuspecting, professional, experienced, long-standing DS sympathiser, rejected all criminal charges against representatives of the municipal board, according to officials of the DS municipal board. So, you drop the criminal charges against the D.S. municipal board officials, and you pass for the D.A.'s office? Now, that's the justice reform of the DS, which has bled out our society. Mr. Selakovic, hard day, hard months, difficult years and behind us months and years of challenges ahead of us. I wish you good luck, because in your vault is also a hot potato, a place of great expectations, a place of expectation that these things that deserve to be on the floor long ago, that you leave them there, and that those responsible for such a situation in our judiciary will never again be able to do such a thing. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of these legal proposals, we go to court, we go to the prosecution, we go to people only to do their job and I congratulate you on the compromise.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20281	Thank you, Mr. Babic. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20282	Extraordinary performance. I must say, I remembered some of the old times, a full-bodied gentleman with glasses who now came from The Hague, who was waving paper like that. But the truth needs to be told. That's why I called, otherwise I wouldn't. The gentleman who made those lists was long ago not a member of the DS, and while he was making them, he was doing them harm to the DS, and I agree. I have never performed in the Serbian Parliament with the intention of abolising any mistake of my party or people from it from the past. On the contrary. And everyone sitting here agrees with me or not, they can confirm that. I'm glad to say that this man is my party's past. The problem is that many similar things are done today, not like this, but similar things. And the bigger problem is that someone else, some new Mr. Babic here, is going to read some other lists in, say, five years. And now, you know, when it comes out like this and you're trying to talk about it, in a congregation debate, it seems to me, a civilized debate, to touch what kind of laws we've got, why we got them after four and a half months, after trying to negotiate with a lawyer, then you say, look what they've been doing. And why don't you read the 670 judges who were victims of a failed judicial reform, I agree, who became members of your party? So, I've asked you, Minister, to give us confirmation that you've cut people off, thus fulfilling the legal requirement for them to be judges. We never got a glimpse of the SNS membership, and we saw the memberships at the press conference. We did, with a gentleman who is no longer your member. And now you see, now you won't remember that part, and you're glad it's not. Everyone has their own list maker. Do you understand? Only ours wasn't even in the assembly, and yours was the chairman of the Justice Committee here. And now, who's worse, they're all bad. You've simply made a complete mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20283	Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. On what basis, Mr. Veselinović? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20284	Thank you, Chairman. What characterized the presentation of the head of the SNS parliamentary group is what characterized the presentation of Minister Selakovic and what characterized the presentation of SNS representatives...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20285	Mr. Vesenović, just please, since you have received a replica of Mr. Babic's exposure, you can only replicate Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20286	Absolutely. I'm making a comparison, Mr. Becic. So, and that's empty, with no substance, empty barrels that are always filled with false, false, untruths that repeat, repeat, repeat. And running away from the topic that's on the agenda. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: There is a seal. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20287	Please, Mr. Babic, allow Mr. Veselinović to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20288	Today, there was a change in the set of laws related to notaries. We were supposed to talk about it here today. No, Mr. Babic was talking about things that had nothing to do with lawyers, the fact that taxes were raised, that the notaries were chosen in a very non-transparent way, that they were, by chance, SNS personnel, not only to make sure who was going to be the notary. The lists are made from the housekeeper to the porter, the director of the public enterprise and the various personnel you're setting up, the governor of the National Bank. So, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20289	I must warn you that you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20290	You don't have to warn me, I watch my time. So you didn't want to talk today about a subject that's on the agenda. You ran away because you didn't have anything to say about her.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20291	I was just thinking that, and I mentioned you didn't talk about it. Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20292	Thank you, President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of the debate in principle, what has been said and respected colleagues from the opposition and distinguished colleagues from the ruling majority's parties is that perhaps even the least discussed today is the essence, i.e. concrete proposals for laws that are on the agenda. With the belief that more discussions on this will be under way in particular, where I expect a truly good assessment of the quality of what was proposed, given that this is the first time we have talked about public records since 2011 until today that some kind of agreement with lawyers, which I said in 2011, has not been reached, and it has become more relevant to someone else. I want to look back at something that was a good part of the debate, which is one of my respected predecessors and said, and I am obliged as a member of the government to respond to that. There were words about human policy, you know how, the court on human policy gives citizens an election. Since they've evaluated some of the personnel who were in this place where I am today, and since these staffs have been celebrated in what they've been doing and can proudly come out of their little bit more than 5% of the support of the citizens and the results that we've been talking about here today, I wish them all the happiness of this world in some of the next elections, when citizens re-evaluate someone's human policy and someone's state policy in general. This is a government that has democratic capacity, this is a government that has the strongest democratic support of Serbian citizens, this is a government that can sit down without a measure of repression and talk to those who disagree in many things and compromise, because as one of my respected colleagues from the SNS said - compromise does not mean a reduction and compromise does not mean defeat. Obviously, one who has not been able to lead the state to make quality and good compromises still cannot understand what a compromise is. As long as it's so of those five and something will fall lower and lower. Many have already passed the election. Some left a warning. If they continue to do so in the next election, they know what they can hope for. Thank you for your understanding, and thank you for the good debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-19-0.u20293	Thank you, Mr Selakovic, for today's participation in the session. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 to 6 of the agenda. Continuing Wednesday at 10:00 p.m. in particular. Thank you.
