ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32650	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 104 MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending today's session by the following MPs: Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinovic, Milena Ćorilić, Branko Ružic and Đorđe Cabarkapa. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the 4, 5 and 6th agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice. The chiefs of the Justice Department, the head of the Justice Department and senior adviser at the justice ministry were also invited. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on Extrajudicial Assistance in Criminal Matters and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on Mutual Legal Assistance in Civil and Commercial Matters. Does Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32651	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on extradition, a bill on the approval of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and a proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters. The issue of international legal assistance and international legal co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey has so far been regulated by the following bilateral agreements: the Convention between the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual relations in cases of judicial, civil and commercial matters since 7 July 1934; then the Convention on Judicial Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the SFRY and the Republic of Turkey since 8 October 1973, as well as the Convention on Issue between the SFRY and the Republic of Turkey since 17 November 1973. The current bilateral agreements on legal co-operation with the Republic of Turkey, which are in force and which have long been concluded, as such cannot meet the needs of contemporary legal traffic in international civil and legal and criminal matters. In fact, legal co-operation between the two countries is increasingly common, as citizens of the two states and legal persons are increasingly working together to achieve legal co-operation. In addition, crime as a social phenomenon does not know the state borders and its sights are increasingly diverse, i.e. methods of execution. All of these requires a wide range of, large, efficient and more intensive legal co-operation between the judicial authorities and other bodies of the two countries, which should contribute to the solutions contained in the contracts whose confirmation is proposed. Decisions contained in those Treaties should contribute to the greater legal certainty of the natural and legal persons of one State when they are located in the territory of another Contracting State, the right to legal protection, the right to free legal assistance, witness protection, exemption from the payment of litigation costs, use of language, recognition and enforcement of court decisions, execution of procedural actions, transfer of acts and so on. In criminal-legal matter, the proposed solutions will allow far more extensive and diverse legal assistance between the two countries, as new forms of legal assistance and certain measures are envisaged, for example, controlled delivery, temporary transfer of persons deprived of freedoms, which are of similar importance to detecting and curbing crime in modern conditions, especially when it comes to organised crime. The possibility of more direct co-operation will also create conditions for more effective international legal assistance in criminal matters. The proposed solutions with regard to the extradition of the accused and convicted persons, with the precision of the assumptions and the level of the punishable sentence, the types of criminal acts for extradition, will create a basis for firmer and more mandatory co-operation between the competent authorities of the two countries, both defendants and convicted persons, would not have avoided criminal responsibility by running from one country to another. Decisions contained in the Treaties are also the result of obligations arising from multilateral conventions on international legal aid. Those contracts were signed on June 5th 2013, and the Government's proposals for the approval of those contracts were first submitted to the National Assembly on 12 July 2013, so that they would be returned to the procedure after the withdrawal. Given the geographical link and the international transfer that passes by joining the East and the West through the Republic of Serbia, and going to Turkey, in order to warn and improve the fight against organised crime, especially drug trafficking, people, weapons, I believe that the vote and validation of these contracts will improve international legal co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey and rise to a higher level, much higher than what I said now is based on the first of the three contracts concluded 81 years ago. Convinced that in the voting day you will support the proposals of these three laws, I thank you for your attention and I want a fruitful and good debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32652	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS parliamentary group will support all three draft laws, which concern confirming appropriate international agreements with the Republic of Turkey, for several reasons. Yugoslavia, or Serbia with modern Turkey, with Turkey resting on Kemal Ataturk's traditions, has decades of fertile relations in different areas, including legal, political and economic co-operation. With some strange historical and political circumstances, here we are today discussing the ratification of these three contracts on the day the three-member BiH presidency comes to visit the Republic of Serbia, which is why the Republic of Serbia shows indeed and, above all, its Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vukic, shows good will to maintain stable and good neighbourly relations in the region. Of course, between Turkey and Serbia there are some things that share us, there are some issues that we do not agree on, there are some issues that are painful for the Republic of Serbia and you, Minister, surely you know what this is about. So, as a state, we are not indifferent to the fact that the Republic of Turkey recognised KIM independence as early as February 18th 2008. On the other hand, since we are leading one real and state-owned policy, we are also aware that there are many things that connect us, that there are many things that bring us together, that there are many areas in which Serbia and Turkey, despite these differences, can establish even better and more effective relations. Here, first of all, I mean the issue of gas supply, here, first of all, I mean a common fight against terrorism, it's a monster that threatens both Serbia and Turkey, currently Turkey more than Serbia, but in any case, these are the challenges both countries face, and, of course, it's a question of migrants, i.e. people who, due to war actions in Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq, Libya and other Arab countries, leave their hearths and one part of Turkey, then through Greece, Serbia continue their path towards EU countries. So despite certain differences, there are reasons why relations between our two countries need to be deepened and why it is necessary to support the ratification of these three international agreements. I said at the beginning of my presentation that Yugoslavia and Turkey have for decades, when I say Turkey, I mean modern, secular Turkey, established by Kemal Ataturk, so for decades we have had in many areas of social life good and quality relations. It is known that Yugoslavia, Greece and Turkey concluded in 1934 the so-called "Balkan Pact" or "Balkan Agreement", which at the time was a guarantee of stability and security in the Balkans, at a time when both the Balkans and the whole of Europe and the world threatened the Second World War monster and disaster. As a prominent acquaintance of legal and political history, you are probably familiar with a historical detail, in the name of Yugoslavia, the Balkan Agreement was signed by King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic. He was about a year earlier, before the signing of the Balkan Agreement, in October 1933, practically a year before his death in Marseille, along with his wife, Queen Maria, was in Istanbul, a guest of Kemal Ataturka, and at the initiative of Kemal Ataturka, he accepted the idea of the Balkan Pact, which was also signed in 1934. This means that when you have serious politicians at the head of the state, when you have serious statesmen who are stared at the future, who want good for their people, then no agreement can be concluded, no matter how many differences there are in certain things, there is another historical detail that I want to point out at this time. I would like to point out, because I think the current Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, is leading the policy that has been led in terms of international relations and rich and good works and in terms of public finances by Yugoslav Prime Minister Milan Stojadinovic in due time. Why am I saying this? One of the agreements we are discussing today is the confirmation of an international agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey concerning extradition. At that time, in the 1930s, Mr. Minister, on a small Turkish island, I think the island was called Prinquipo, there was a leader, then VMRO leader Ivan Vanca Mihajlov. Vanca Mihajlov in southern Serbia, i.e. Macedonia and its comitite units carried out terrorist attacks on members of the Yugoslav Army and the gendarme, and this was a major problem, was a major internal problem, primarily for the Kingdom of Yugoslavia itself, of course, a problem for bilateral relations between the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and Turkey, since Turkey, for some reasons Kemal Ataturk, refused to hand over to Vancho Mihajlova, who otherwise signed an agreement with Ante Pavelic on co-operation of the Ustasha Movement and VMRO against the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, so Turkey refused to hand over Yugoslavia to Vanchu Mihajlova. What did Milan Stojadinović do? He did the same thing that Alexander Vucic does today, without hard words, without excessive tightening in bilateral relations, leading a rational and real national and state-run policy, he managed to address the problem to the well-being of both Yugoslavia and the well-being of Turkey at the time, and what is most important is to address the issue of the so-called committee movement in Macedonia. Here, if I may, I will quote from his memoirs, so Milan Stojadinovic, what, if I were to say to the political cunning he served, to solve the problem, without infringing relations between Yugoslavia and Turkey: "As Prime Minister, I felt that the problem of Macedonia depends on the way of administration of the province and that, by stopping the repressive methods, how they were conducted there for some time by Interior Minister Žika Lazic and Ban Vardarska Banovina Dobrica Matkovic, the way for a complete settlement of the region, paying attention to his economic and cultural progress. This will remove the causes of dissatisfaction which were the basis of the Bulgarian committee movement. That's how it was after all, and it was during my government, Vancha Michaelov was no problem at all. “ It was 1934, 1935, 1936. If we look at today in 2015, it's the same policy you're running, Mr. Minister, it's the same policy as the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic. So, by economic measures, measures that will raise the cultural level of a certain end, solve problems that are a couple of excelleans politically, but not solve them by violence, not by using hard words, not by solving them with words that can set the people on fire, but by a wise and state-of-the-art policy that will be for the greater benefit of our country and our people, but also by all countries in the region. What I also want to point out about these agreements is a few purely legal things that I like very much and that's where I want to commend you. When it comes to the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, what is very important is Article 4 in my opinion, which concerns the refusal of legal aid. Therefore, the requested party may refuse to apply for legal aid in the following cases: if an investigation or criminal offence is concerned by a criminal offence which the requested party considers to be a political crime or criminal offence associated with a political crime, or exclusively a military offence which does not constitute a criminal offence under the general law. So, when it comes to so-called. political crimes or, which would sometimes be said in that old Yugoslav criminal language, when it comes to verbal delinquents, then one state can refuse legal aid in such a kind of criminal matter. However, what is very important is the position of the 2nd member, that in the context of this contract genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and, most importantly, terrorism and criminal acts for which investigations and judicial proceedings are required for foreign parties under multilateral international agreements, will not be considered political crimes or acts related to political crimes. So this is good because terrorism, the use of violence, the sacrifice of people, the cause of material damage cannot be considered democratic and political methods of political struggle. It is good that such crimes are excluded from the possibility of refusing to provide legal assistance in criminal matters. What is a good side of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on extradition is that the extradition procedure, in my personal opinion, is quite simple, that the procedure is simple and that the procedure is such that it will speed up the extradition process as much as possible. In fact, Article 14 of this Treaty stipulates that the application is to be drawn up in writing and referred by the Justice Ministry to the Minister of Justice for the requested party. However, communication through diplomatic means is not excluded. Why does this matter? So, the Department of Justice, for example, Serbia can directly address the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Turkey and thus speed up the process. There is no need for foreign affairs ministries to communicate first, so that they transfer their jurisdiction, i.e. that further procedures take place through competent resolution ministries, but communication in this legal matter takes place directly between the two competent ministries, between the Serbian Ministry of Justice and the Turkish Ministry of Justice, which is indeed gaining speed, on efficiency, on the economicity of the procedure. When it comes to extradition for these acts that are extremely difficult, which I have already mentioned, such as genocide, war crimes and terrorism, then that economic and efficiency in conduct can be extremely important. As for the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters, you said it was currently in force between the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual relations, and according to cases of judicial, civil and commercial, since 3 July 1934. So in 1934, then, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia recognized the importance of economic co-operation with Turkey. Today, after more than 80 years, we can only assume the importance of this cooperation. Today, many Turkish companies are operating in Serbia, many Turkish companies have come to Serbia because of a government-led policy led by Aleksandar Vucic, whose government you are minister of justice, because this government created such an economic and legal environment that all investors, including investors from Turkey, are safe when it comes to their capital. That is why I think the ratification of this treaty with the modern Republic of Turkey and how it will contribute to an even better economic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey. To repeat once again, despite certain things that divide us, there are many fields in which we can develop co-operation both in terms of culture and in terms of energy, especially in terms of economics. Good economic policy, investment, job creation, investment security, it is very often the best medicine possible for a number of political problems to be solved. Sometimes it seems simple to put political grass on a political wound, but the government run by Aleksandar Vukic has shown that it can be done differently, to put on an angry political wound a good and healing economic grass and then the economic grass heals political wounds much faster than to place even more angry political grass on that angry wound. For all these reasons, political support for these agreements regarding the SNS parliamentary group will not be left behind. I congratulate you for having the determination, courage and vision to sign these three international agreements with the Republic of Turkey in 2013. I hope that such and similar contracts will be with Turkey, but also with other countries with which we may be different, but there is certainly no country of which we are very different in everything. So there is always some space for co-operation and this is a good signal, not only for the Republic of Turkey, this is a good signal for all countries in the region, and above all for all the countries of the Western Balkans, that Serbia is in some way, here by ratification these three international agreements, returning to that one, you know well what I'm talking about, that old policy by Prince Mihajl, Nikola Pasic, which is the Balkan Balkan peoples. So, when we Balkan peoples are alone, in peace and cold heads, solving our problems, without good or less good services being provided to us by someone on the side, I am convinced that the entire Western Balkans will be a region of stability, a region of co-operation, a region in which they will be able to live much better and safer than they are today. For all these reasons, the SNS parliamentary group will vote with all its heart to confirm these three international agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32654	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32655	I would like to thank the President. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, at the very beginning, taking part in the debate on this set of laws, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to point out that our parliamentary group will support this set of laws in the voting day and vote for the same, for reasons that I will point out in the course of the discussion. No doubt there are many of these reasons. What, in any case, merits attention is the fact that just by adopting the laws that confirm the agreements we are considering today, and we are analysing them, is encouraging something that stands in the course of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular the policy of the SAA, which is the effectiveness of the judicial system, these are effective judicial proceedings and this is preventing the execution of a criminal offence, in terms of prevention, as well as the punishment of the perpetrator of criminal offences, in terms of repression. When I was talking about prevention, it's about both forms of prevention, whether it's general or special prevention. What should be pointed out at the outset is that, as we say to lawyers, the judicialization of this set, the normative we are talking about today, we are achieving one goal which is essentially the European Union's goal, which is to limit and prevent the perpetrators of criminal acts to avoid the trial or execution of criminal sanctions against them. In this way, perpetrators of criminal offences could devalue the criminal justice systems of the state, since in this situation cases, or proceedings cannot be brought to the end, to violate the rights of parties to trials within a reasonable period of time, that sanctions cannot be applied to convicted persons, that those damaged in criminal proceedings are deprived of justice and lose confidence in the legal system. It was these frustrations of the judicial and police authorities of the former period that led to the efforts to overcome the barriers and strengthen mutual trust among the aphirmic states right through the laws we are considering today. In an effort to overcome the observed shortcomings that occurred earlier, we have come to standards that in any case tend to the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is that, as the European Union has prescribed, by introducing a European arrest warrant between the Member States of the European Union and us, as a candidate and as a country that goes safely to membership in the European Union, respects these standards and implement them in our judicial system. However, respected ministers, despite all the affirmative reasons for supporting these laws, remain certain dilemmas. Some are materially-legal, some are procedural-legal, I would ask that we analyse them in some way both with your help and your support we come to a comprehensive solution. In Article 3. The extradition agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey states that extradition will not be granted for acts which, right now, we are paying attention to the assessment of the requested party, so we are talking about the assessment of the requested party, political crimes or crimes related to the crime. The question arises, dear colleagues, what does the assessment of the requested party mean, in the legal sense of the words? An evaluation or opinion has no power of the empire, no binding fact. The assessment of the requested party is whether a political crime can involve a certain type of volunteerism or even some kind of abuse. In any case, my party, or the SPS parliamentary group, do not want to express skepticism, but in this area there have been many movements that have been declared political movements, many organisations that have declared themselves to be organisations that express political views. Dear Ministers, just to mention the Wahhabi movement in the territory of Novi Pazar and Sjenica, which declared itself to be someone who expressed political ideas and political views by calling for resistance by holding arms, even using weapons, threatening the population, imposing some of his political or conditional political views. We are in a situation where we are simply concerned whether the assessment of the requested party, regardless of whether we have correct and diplomatic and political relations with Turkey, which we are trying to perfect both for the government and for the work of, here I agree with MP Martinovic, come into the situation that one assessment of the requested party can also be something that is not in the spirit of what the aim of these laws means, which is the extradition of the perpetrators of criminal acts. Therefore, this dilemma, I am convinced, will be overcome in further communication between the two ministers, yours, whose head you are at, and the Ministry of Justice, in order to properly analyse all actions, all counter-actions and avoid the possibility that in contaminating political action someone is ablimate, amnesty, or not be subjected to criminal proceedings, which objectively exists. Of course, the European Union has done a lot in that direction. I'll just remind you of some historical facts. Since the very beginning of the exemption of political action, I have been talking about the political work, of extradition, of fact, we have had the opportunity to see through history when the political work has been effectively excluded. I mean a political crime, although that, from the point of view of the SPS parliamentary group, is something that implies a quasi criminal and legal institute because there is no systematicisation of political crimes in our criminal law. We don't have that. We have a theory. We can also meet in practice with the terminology of political crimes. I'll just point out that during "Sablje" we had an attempt to introduce an anachronous and retrograde qualifications as a legal institute, which is the political background of a crime. A political background can't be a criminal and legal institute. Against such a qualification, I return to that period when thousands of people during Sablje are unfoundedly deprived of freedom, a political background has been discussed. Why are they deprived of their freedom? It's the political background of some crime. Comparative or analoguely, the same is true when it comes to a political crime that is systematiced in Article 3 of this Treaty. In 1855, which I mentioned, the Belgian court refused to extradite, at the request of France, a certain Frenchman who planted a bomb on a train traveled by French Emperor Napoleon. Even then, in 1855, under the motivation of political action and the exemption of political work from extradition, as Belgium and France then signed one extradition agreement, the perpetrator of the crime was prevented from being extradited. Immediately thereafter, Belgium and the Belgian government amended the law. At that time, we have already come to a field that we are talking about today, that political acts are literally excluded, that the extradition of perpetrators of criminal acts is prevented, that is, it will not happen to him if political crimes are involved. However, all this stuff I'm talking about, the Honorable Minister, is leaving the dilemma again. It leaves the dilemma because the political crime has not yet been defined. We still have different approaches, different theoretical views, and I'm afraid that through abuses, especially abuses of so-called. The qualifications of the assessment of the requested party are to decide whether the illegal operation is a counter-action in which the features are contained, conditionally said, of a soft political crime. As far as everything else mentioned in this set of laws is concerned, the SPS parliamentary group undoubtedly stands at the point of respecting the maximum support of all other procedural and legal institutes, all other procedural solutions, especially when it comes to international assistance in civil and commercial matters, where it is possible for evidence to be carried out effectively, to hear witnesses, that we can carry out skills in the manner prescribed by these contracts, of course, on request. Of course, in this way we influence the improvement of the efficiency of our court procedure and these are some solutions that mean very good solutions in this bill, and therefore enjoy support. These dilemmas that we have highlighted as a parliamentary group of SPS are merely a well-intentioned suggestion that the same is being considered when applying these laws, so that we can just avoid situations that we can't get to the handover of the perpetrators of the crimes that have been uncontested in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's not just Wahabism, and the Wahhabi movement, there are others, there are others who deserve and what a great deal of attention. Finally, in any case, the SPS parliamentary group, as I said at the outset, will support this set of laws, will vote for it, and will support further efforts by the government of the Republic of Serbia to address the issues that relate to the extradition of the perpetrators and to improve the efficiency of the judicial system in general. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32656	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32657	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to thank for the constructive word of counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic and for the truly constructive and momentous approach of what fellow Jovanovic always has in the debates according to the laws, where I have the honour of representing and representing the Government as a promoter in the National Assembly. Of course, it can be said in the good part that you are also right, however, which should be borne in mind when it comes to the confirmation of the law, namely the laws confirming international legal co-operation contracts, international legal aid, international legal aid, is that in such situations the Contracting State is working to regulate the good part of its political discretionary powers by laws, and that the things prescribed by applicable international legal acts, therefore, to the multilateral conventions they have for the subject of the same matter, therefore, whether this is international legal assistance in criminal rights, in civil and commercial matters, in extradition, to overcome these international legal regulations and to achieve some kind of closer and closer and closer and better co-operation. In the end, when everything that is not regulated by these contracts is left in the field of politics and bilateral relations between the two countries. If we're looking at things from one angle I'd say you're absolutely right, but this is a two-sided contract and here are two sides and it's always the way to look at it. Unfortunately, neither the Republic of Turkey nor the Republic of Serbia are countries of that level of political stability that can be praised for being able to have such a provision in their contracts. If you want, it is here right now and there is an executive office in international legal co-operation, because there are cases beyond the reach of the judiciary and mere technical co-operation, such as these. You know, for example, the Republic of Turkey has some political problems with the Kurdish national minority. If we as a state had no way in the past, we had been asked by the state to extradite persons who were suspected of committing crimes that one might also qualify as political crimes before the judicial authorities of the Republic of Turkey. Our country's practice is different. So, we used to extradite those faces, we didn't. But in any case, my opinion is that it's a good thing that there's one provision like this, and what I've come to realize is that your constructive approach is, and that how it takes care of the application of this provision, and that's where I fully support you. Turkey, you know, has one specific system, in order to extradite the citizens you are asking from Turkey, it is necessary that the act, therefore, be signed by every Turkish government minister, and only when it is signed by the last minister, to be signed by the Turkish government. It's a specific but very complex system unlike ours where the signing of the Minister of Justice is enough to do such a thing. Of course, when it comes to politically complex cases that whoever is the minister of justice makes the decision, normally in consultations with the government itself, with the Prime Minister and other members of the government, and that will be taken into account in particular. My assessment is that a kind of partner and responsible gesture by Serbia has accepted that such a contract is concluded with Turkey which shows that Serbia is indeed one responsible country and that it is making partnerships and friendships on all sides of the world. So I am confident, and knowing both my colleagues and my previous colleague with whom I signed this contract and the new Turkish Justice Minister with whom I have had the opportunity to co-operate and to see that we can count on one fair, honest and partnered co-operation. Knowing what their gratitude was and indeed a great enthusiasm when we reached these agreements in the first place, I am convinced that such co-operation will follow us. What you said, not only for me who are currently in this position, but for every future one, is to take good care of what is considered a political, criminal act. Since we are a country that is in the process of European integration, which seeks to achieve European standards, European values, certainly every minister of justice of Serbia should rely on these very standards, on those which are applied in EU member states when deciding on such moves. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32658	Thank you. Are there any more authorized? No, then I give my word to Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic. I give my word to the MPs Gordani Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32659	Thank you. Agreements ahead of us deserve a vote in favour of the fact that they are basically dealing with human rights essentially in areas of legal certainty and protection of persons against law, and at the level of the agreement between states they are good for Serbia and Turkey's mutual relations. I wish your relationships were even better. I fall into those who believe Turkey's role in our region not only in the Western Balkans but also in Southeast Europe is insufficient. It will sound ugly when I say used, but that the space for better positioning Turkey and for better co-operation is great. I think the task of Serbia, the Serbian government, is not only the foreign ministry but all the ministries to do everything in Serbia's interest to improve this co-operation. In the small period, I also had the opportunity to participate in a working group tasked with making a proposal, a statute and a form of co-operation of the Southeast European Parliamentary Assembly, in which Turkey is also a participant. With no little pleasure, I must say that this job has been done and that the Turkish side's reactions to our pledge to have equal treatment in the Southeast European region have indeed been extraordinary. That is why I believe that I will vote in favour of all three agreements, and one concerning extradition and one concerning mutual legal assistance and, of course, help with civil and criminal matters. Since this is a unique search and if we had submitted amendments, me or any of our colleagues from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, they would have come down to linguistic matters and, in that sense, I have a few questions for the minister, in order to explain each question in the reading of certain members of the contract. A contract between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on extradition. In Article 16 of the Rubrum - Temporary detention, there is a point 4 in which it is said: “In urgent cases, the competent authorities of the foreign Contracting Party may send a request for temporary detention through the international criminal police organisation (Interpol)”. And that's my question, because I think it's good to clarify the procedure during this debate when any country that has co-operation with Interpol requests that the person, any one, be found on one of the Interpol arrest warrants or seek temporary detention. We have a lot of confusion in the public, unfortunately, of the lack of knowledge and the lack of confidence among journalists and others who talk about this, and I think it would be better for the minister to explain that in the case of arrest warrants, only the country issuing the warrant is competent. Interpol's here to execute. And to clarify what it means - the two states are speaking together to Interpol for temporary detention. That's the first question. I wouldn't even stand for the amendment, but since it's been entered as a member of the contract, I think it requires a little effort to further explain the case or whatever the minister's answer is. The second question concerns confirming the Treaty on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. My questions are as conditional as they are on language, how often such questions are asked when it comes to agreements and contracts that are made in two languages, so translations are confirmed, so they are done together, and the party that needs to be interpreted is determined. I didn't submit the amendment because I kind of understand what was going to happen in the members I was going to ask you about, but I didn't want to talk about my amendment, I wanted to find a way to remove doubts about what a member means or to remove some kind of technical redundancy. In Article 12, which has the rubrum – Temporary surrender of a person deprived of liberty, to appear as a witness to the judicial authorities of a foreign prayer, in the last position, and at point 3, it is said: “The person transferred will remain in custody on the territory of the party to the prayer and, where necessary, on the territory of the Contracting Party through which transit is sought, unless a party to which temporary surrender is requested does not require it to be released.” I understand what was wanted with this attitude, but what was wanted is not written. It may be written in a harmonised version in a third language, or it may be written in Turkish, but, as I said at first, it is essentially a human rights issue and I would not like for some excess to appear or because of an inaccurate translation, that our country as a foreign party or Turkey has any problem if such a text, in this form, also appears in what they ratify as a mutual legal aid contract. A similar type of doubt arises in Article 13, which has the title – Witness Guarantees, Skills and Indictees when they are called before the judicial authorities of the foreign prayer in the third position, which reads: “A witness, an expert or a person against whom a criminal trial is conducted loses the protection given to him on the basis of this article if not after the expiry of a period of 15 consecutive days, from the day when his presence is no longer required before the judicial authorities, does not take advantage of the opportunity to leave already in that territory, or has returned to it after he has left it.” I understand the meaning, but it doesn't say it here, and there should be a way in agreement with the Assembly to make this perfectly clear, and to make it quite clear, if there's a case of applying to any person who is a witness, an expert or accused, that we wouldn't be in a situation where we have bigger problems than we need. Turkey and Serbia's co-operation in legal matters I think it will only have in the future a significant impact on our policies and sectoral policies, various, and also on the part concerning a kind of legislation that can be seen here in the agreements that are before us only to be interpreted as being defined, which are criminal acts from cyber crime and criminal acts from the violation of the right of personality on the Internet, criminal acts of threat and similar things which are currently or in stages very detailedly debated and the European Parliament for a new type of legislation that will be established between EU member states in order to level standards and to establish protocols on what it means to protect against crime on the Internet, what is allowed, what is forbidden, because it is again an area of human rights, to establish regulations in this area without jeopardising fundamental freedoms and rights. There are various countries, when you look at the attempt to define which state has legislation when it comes to Internet crime, they look completely different approaches and, I repeat, if it is, in different countries and this type of crime defined by criminal laws, then I think, in the future, it will be with terrorism, human trafficking and trafficking of key areas in which we will develop co-operation with Turkey, however unusually it may seem to develop co-operation, but in that name these contracts are really necessary. I will vote for all three contracts and I will be glad to have the Serbian Government present soon to the Assembly both with the minister of justice or with another minister, economy, finance, and new contracts and agreements on economic co-operation, on co-operation in the area of defence. I think there are a lot of good jobs that we can do with Turkey. Of course, I am glad that Serbia is committed to membership in the Parliamentary Assembly of Southeast Europe, where 12 different countries from EU member states are, to us, candidate countries, which are in the accession process or accession process, and Turkey, which has a very special way of joining the EU. Also, in this body, in this organization, I think that the minister of justice also has space in the committee dealing with the control of the work of the judiciary in all our countries, and I am sure that the news that Serbia and Turkey are establishing contracts with these special aspects of co-operation will have a good echo in that organisation, as well as in all those who see how we treat the rule of law we, who want to be open to Chapters 23 and 24, with Chapter 35 and Turkey, who in their own way do not give up on the European path of their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32660	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32661	I thank the esteemed president. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would also like to thank Commissioner Komic for his remarks and observations in the text of the bill, when it comes to the bill confirming the extradition agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey, and where Col. Comic spoke of Article 16(4) of the temporary detention procedures. Therefore, Article 4 essentially makes an exception to the rules. The rule is that the application for temporary detention is submitted in the manner and procedure provided for by the position of the 3rd of this member, and since it is a procedure that is more complicated and complex in several cases, so it requires a little more time, an exception is provided for in the emergency procedure when it comes to detention. The procedure carried out through the international criminal police organisation, as you know, Interpol's network has its own facilities or centres in all signatories or Interpol member states and such a type of communication, is something that is as fast as possible in today's, to say, circumstances, normally, that there are faster means of communication, but this is about legally regulated communication, which is based on the trust that Interpol Member States have entrusted to an international organisation, whose members are also. What's controversial about us is, I'm going to take the opportunity to mention, I guess one of the motives for asking your questions was the behavior of the last months or years on Interpol's warrants. I'll give it as an example, to explain it, it's an example of an APB designated for Naser Oric. Why did I take that as an example? It is not in this particular case the subject of the Naser Oric story, so we had the situation that our arrest warrant, our judicial authorities, our state, was distributed through the Interpol network, that it was, because of the veto, some kind of veto that was put on that warrant by BiH, as a state whose citizen, and based on the Resolution of the General Assembly of Interpol from Doha, I think from 2010, if I am not mistaken, where the previous consent of the state whose citizen is concerned is sought, in order to implement the prosecution through Interpol. There we can conduct discussions and political and legal as many resolutions as have detached the system of co-operation through Interpol's International Criminal Police Organisation. Why? Because basically, you're in a situation where, in cases like this, every state, if it doesn't agree with the pursuit of its citizen, can put an APB on that BOLO. Our arrest warrant, which was found in Switzerland on our search warrant, was not an arrest on Interpol's warrant, because Interpol's arrest warrant wasn't even because the country whose citizen put it on the roadblock. That, of course, is completely different from what we were talking about here. So here is the view only of the technically faster and legally regulated type of request, the detention of a particular person, and that is why it was put here to go through Interpol rather than through a full procedure through several steps through judicial authorities, and behind judicial authorities through the authorities of the executive authority or the justice ministry. It is an exception, as I said, that the attitude of Article 16, in detail, provides for a procedure requiring temporary detention of a particular person. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Mutual and Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and your Review on Two Members, Article 12(3) and Article 13(3), I can also agree with you to a good degree that the language appears to be clumsy this formulation. The point of Article 3 is that the person who has been handed over remains in custody, unless the party party to the temporary surrender is required, does not require it to be released. This whole position between these few commas, which seem to seem clumsyly distributed, somewhere completely and excessive, is something that can create a certain kind of confusion. Of course, what doesn't surprise me here, I have to admit, is that often contracts on providing international law on mutual legal assistance between the two countries can be resembling. Why? You look immediately at the way these contracts are created, which as well as at the conclusion of all international agreements, and especially here when it comes to giving up one part of jurisdiction, concessions and the establishment of co-operation that is well-needed and based on mutual trust, negotiations are being conducted. We have cases where negotiations on the conclusion of this kind of contract, such as extradition contracts or mutual legal aid contracts, in criminal matters, lasts for a few years. I won't name them now, but there are contracts we've been negotiating for more than five years that are of this nature. These negotiations literally take care, not take care, but are literally negotiated in some segments of each word and each state knows why it takes such a position. As a state, we have typical copies of this kind of contract that serve us as a basis and I suppose there was a word here too. If there is any possibility of any technical correction in this sense that you mentioned, I absolutely accept it. What's most important here is that we don't change the essence of the provision by such corrections, here the essence is quite clear and that's what we can do in fact, but technically we'll always get to it when it doesn't completely agree with our translation with that agreed original will be preceded by what's agreed original. If there's a possibility of a technical correction of this, I'm in favour of it and I fully support you because we're trying as hard as possible. This is not the case here and you will have what I know and what is the European Commission's position and EU member states where, they say, it has taken such a good swing, but also to candidate countries, that is, to return the legislator's language to a language that can be understood by an ordinary citizen and which is not the face of a legal profession. So here I support what you've said. I must admit that I do not fully understand your suggestion regarding Article 13 of this Article 3. So, a witness, an expert or a person against whom a criminal trial is conducted loses the protection given to him on the basis of this article if it is not after 15 consecutive days of the day when his presence is no longer necessary in front of the judicial authorities; linguistic inconsistency, you thought okay, here I also accept the remark because I thought you had essentially some remark. So, in any case, you should say -- which was given to him on the basis of this article if, after a 15-day period has elapsed from the day that his presence was not needed in front of the judicial authorities, he did not take advantage of the opportunity to leave, but he remained in that territory or returned to it after leaving it. So, the whole thing is, we understand each other, the formulation is pretty ghastly. If there is a possibility of a correction technique, and the essential achievement of what it was and the idea of us as signatories, I accept and accept your objection and call for such correction to be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32662	The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32663	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, in the course of my address, I will talk about the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on the extradition and confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. I would like to say immediately that the SPS in the voting day will vote in favour of the agreements mentioned, which was defined in the presentation by the authorised representative of the SPS, the esteemed colleague, Nedjo Jovanovic, who, in the most extensive detailed manner, and I can say, spoke very well and competently about the proposed agreements. Both contracts aim to boost bilateral co-operation between Serbia and Turkey in the area of legal and police co-operation, which is ultimately aimed at curbing anti-law behaviour, i.e. crime control. A proposal for an extradition agreement between Serbia and Turkey was signed in Belgrade on June 5th 2013. Following the entry into force of the contract, the Convention on Release between the SFRY and the Republic of Turkey has ceased to apply since 1973, which has so far regulated the issue of extradition. So this contract is the continuity of decades of bilateral co-operation with the Republic of Turkey in this area. This extradition contract came from the need to bring closer and more precise provisions on extradition and the need to bring content into line with international legal standards, but also as a need to further develop and strengthen bilateral relations between the two countries. The basic objective of the contract is the obligation of the Contracting Party to extradite, in accordance with the provisions and conditions provided for in this Treaty, all persons prosecuted for a criminal offence or sought for the execution of a sentence or arrest warrant. The text of the contract provides that extraditions will be carried out for criminal offences for which the sentence of imprisonment or arrest warrants is prescribed for at least a year or more severe punishment. I would point to the fact that this contract is not covered, nor will extradition be done for acts that are assessed by the requested foreign political crimes or acts related to political crimes. Also, extraditions will not be carried out due to violations of military duties that do not fall under general law crimes. Part of the contract relating to the extradition of citizens provides that foreign contracting parties will not extradite their citizens, i.e. they will refuse to extradite their citizens, but at the same time I would stress that the property of citizenship will be assessed at the time of the extradition decision. I would also point out that the contract, among other things, defines limitations, so that, according to that extradition, it will not be approved if the statute of limitations or the execution of a sentence has occurred. The contract also regulates matters of the death penalty, so in cases where, according to legislation, a death penalty is prescribed for acts for which extradition is sought, and the legislation of the requested party does not prescribe the death penalty, extradition may only be granted if a foreign prayer provides sufficient guarantees that the death penalty will not be carried out. Then extradition will not be granted for a criminal offence for which amnesty or pardon is given in the requested party, if that party is competent to prosecute for this offence under its criminal law. As regards the surrender procedure, it is intended to allow temporary detention in case of urgency and may also be sent through Interpol. The contract provides for a postponement or conditional surrender, resulting in the possibility of the extradition being delayed until criminal proceedings have been carried out against that person, or it shall endure the sentence imposed on him on its territory. These are some observations regarding a bilateral extradition treaty signed with the Republic of Turkey. Dear MPs, I would now refer to the Treaty of Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between Serbia and Turkey. The contract was signed in Belgrade on June 5th 2013 and will cease to apply to the 1973 Convention on Judicial Assistance in Criminal Matters between the SFRY and Turkey. So this contract is also the continuity of Turkey's decades-long co-operation and earlier states, which also consisted of the Republic of Serbia. The Treaty stipulates that the parties undertake to provide, in the fastest possible manner, each other with the widest amount of mutual legal assistance in criminal proceedings in relation to criminal offences whose punishment at the time of seeking assistance falls within the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities of the party to the prayer. In particular, legal aid includes the handing over of written notice, as well as the taking of procedural actions of hearings of suspects, hearings of witnesses of artists and other persons, the search of premises, insights, confiscation or mandatory confiscation of cases, etc., the taking of certain measures of controlled delivery, the supply of data without request, in order to initiate criminal proceedings and the temporary transfer of persons of deprived freedom. This Treaty also provides that the requested party may refuse the application for legal aid, and that, under one, if the investigation or criminal offence is related to a criminal offence which the requested party considers to be a political offence or criminal offence linked to a political offence, exclusively or exclusively and exclusively to a military offence which does not constitute a criminal offence under the general law. Two, if the requested party considers that the enforcement of that requirement would likely lead to a breach of its sovereignty, security, public order or other essential interests. Article 11 also provides for the possibility of a witness, an expert and accused before the judicial authorities of a foreign prayer in cases where a party considers it necessary. I would point out that a witness or an expert who does not respond to a court's call sent by any of the Contracting Parties is not subject to a penalty or a measure of restrictions on freedom on the territory of the requested party. Also, Article 12 provides for the possibility of temporary surrender of a person deprived of liberty to appear as a witness to the judicial authorities of the foreign prayer. I would point out that temporary surrender can be refused: under one, if the person deprived of liberty does not agree with it, under two, if his presence is necessary in a criminal procedure which is pending in the territory of the requested party, under three, if the surrender could result in an extension of his dispensation of freedom, or, under four, if there are other important reasons for not giving that person away to a foreign prayer. I would also point out that the contract also provides for data protection, and in Article 16, which shall only be used in accordance with this contract by one party to which the personal data provided to the other by means of a request submitted by the parties to the contract may be used: under one, for the purpose of the procedure to which this contract is applied, under two, for other judicial and administrative proceedings directly related to the procedures referred to under a, and under three, to prevent the direct and serious threat to public security. Finally, I point out that the SPS parliamentary group is looking at those contracts in the context of an increasingly intense co-operation with Turkey that started in 2010, and has gained full momentum since 2012, when then Prime Minister Ivica Dacic was on an official visit to Turkey. After that, a number of bilateral visits at the highest level followed by a series of agreements and contracts, including those discussed today. For all these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group will support all those agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32664	The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32665	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected ministers, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, are three draft laws on confirming the agreements we are discussing today, all three between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey. I think it was really necessary to make new bilateral agreements between our countries, especially when it comes to extradition, and also when it comes to mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, if it is taken into account that the conventions covered by these areas were signed between our countries back in 1973. Of course, the state of signatories were then SFRY and the Republic of Turkey and of course it is more than clear to all of them that since then many circumstances have changed, that everything is different, that security challenges, to put it this way, are significantly different now than they were then, so it was certainly more than necessary to make new bilateral agreements. In particular, when the deal between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on extradition is, in simplest words, it creates a legal framework on which our countries, meaning the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Turkey, will be allowed to co-operate with each other in preventing crime. This basically means that persons who are being prosecuted and persons who avoid being punished will no longer be able to use any legal gaps, practically flee to another country and thus avoid prosecution or punishment. Of course, for one general legal certainty, one peace, one security, of course one such agreement is useful. Also, what are the conditions when extradition is not possible and I hope, of course, that the competent ministry will do everything possible to avoid any possible abuses of what my predecessors have spoken of. I'm sure the D.A. will do it. Then there is a contract between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. I think that this agreement is extremely useful for our country, especially if the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey are both extremely committed to the European path, extremely committed, committed to this path, orientated. So, I think this is one of the best ways to show them, in a practical way, and prove that they are also ready to cooperate and show how this should look like co-operation between European countries. In this agreement, everything is very detailed, very precisely defined, which are all the obligations that the signatories must fulfil. Among other things, there are co-operation authorities defined, specified, language communication, then what are the situations when the requested party can refuse to provide legal assistance, then exchange judicial data, data protection, which is nothing less significant. Finally, there is a contract between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters. I think it is particularly interesting to say, that the convention signed between our countries, meaning that it covers this topic, was signed in 1934 between the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Turkey. So, of course, it was necessary to make something newer, something more modern, something that would certainly improve a general sense of legal certainty. Why do these contracts usually exist? Because each of them opens a new door, opens a new possibility, a new potential for co-operation between the two signatories, in this case the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey, to improve, to work on its quality, to improve it in every way possible. That is why I believe that all the contracts mentioned are, of course, not an exception to them, that all the contracts mentioned are of great quality, extremely useful for our country and, I think, what is the best evidence, that by signing these contracts, our country proves not only to talk about it, but also that it takes an active role in improving peace, security, stability, one legal certainty in our region and that I really hope that by doing this, our region of the Western Balkans will indeed become a place where other regions will be able to see themselves. Therefore, the SNS will, of course, give its support to those contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32666	The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Minister Selakovic, will vote, of course, and we, the People's MPs of the New Party, for the adoption of all three laws confirming all three contracts between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on extradition, between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters. I see one satisfaction with Mr Selakovic, as it is not often the situation for the opposition to vote for proposals he defends on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in our National Assembly. I now have an additional note for Minister Selakovic and one and perhaps two questions, Minister. The first note, the minister is known, I think, as a member of the government who insists on precision, in one careful use of language etc., and it happened to him today, I think, one of the failures in presenting the contents of one of these contracts, when Minister Selakovic said he had signed and here a contract was to be adopted between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey. Just for the sake of precision, Mr. Selakovic, please say it was a sort of oatmeal, a lapusa. There will be some researchers, respected gentlemen, in the coming years, who will read the stenographic notes and perhaps someone will be brought with this trail and that who knows what political conclusions they make, Mr Selakovic. I don't think it should be here and, of course, this recognition that it's a lapus, where I don't think there should be any dilemma, is also an indication of the importance and meaning that our National Assembly has in our constitutional system. It was one note to Minister Selakovic. I have one question, since 8 August 2014, respected gentlemen and respected ministers, in the procedure here in the Assembly there are two draft laws sent to the Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on 8 August 2014. One is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors and another is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary. Minister Selakovic, it has been almost 12 months since you sent these proposals to the Assembly, and you have explained the sending of these proposals through the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the national justice reform strategy 2018. Ministers, I ask you -- how come we don't have the government's initiative in the last 12 months to discuss these two very important draft laws during an extraordinary session, for example.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32668	Now link it to the agreements with Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32669	That's exactly what I'm doing, Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable President. How do I link it to the agreements? By being SNS MPs and MP Neđo Jovanovic, commenting today on these agreements, there is no one who has not called for legal certainty, part of the rule of law, and, gentlemen, these two draft laws concern the national justice reform strategies in 2018. This is how I conclude, based on the words of Minister Selakovic, there are no these laws on the agenda of the Assembly – there is no realisation of judicial reform. Minister Selakovic, then I ask you – does this mean that you have given up what has been outlined in the national judicial reform strategy. I have one more thing to say, gentlemen of honor, Mrs Gojkovic and Minister Selakovic, if this is a sign of abandonment...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32670	Ambassador, I'm going to have to interrupt you. Yesterday I allowed Momir Stojanovic one question past the subject and you one question. Go back to the topic or interrupt the speech. Don't connect with me now, I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32671	Dear President, it seems to me that Minister Selakovic sees the connection between what is the agenda point and what is my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32672	But I don't see you as the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32673	What's the connection? The link is Article 3. The Constitution, Mrs Gojkovic
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32674	Okay, so we can also talk about the spooky brides and the impact on gamma rays to always find a connection. So you're in favor of these three agreements. I'll let the minister give you a brief answer in two three minutes to what you asked past the subject and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32675	I am not surprised that negotiations on chapter 23 do not begin if we have signals of judicial reform. Those were my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32676	Thank you very much. So you don't want to talk about agreements. I have to tell you that I shut you down because you don't want to talk about agreements. You said "yes" and then you started on bill proposals that don't come on the agenda. I'm giving the minister a chance to answer you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32677	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will certainly answer his questions very much for my colleague Pavicevic. He, as a man of the academic profession, knows how to skillfully place what may sometimes not be a topic. You know, when that student was asked to talk about the rule of Gaius Julius Caesar, he began by saying – Guy Julius Caesar was a great statesman and great military leader, but Karajordje was also a great statesman and a great army leader. Karadjordje was born in the village of Visevac, in the centre of Šumadija, and in 1804 he raised the first Serbian uprising, etc. Thanks for that remark. If I really said Republika Srpska, it was a lapus in pronunciation. Normally, I am not the minister of justice of Republika Srpska, so I cannot perform as such, and I certainly respect and appreciate my colleague Kasipovic. Of course, thank you for asking this question, although it has nothing to do with this subject, but let's not joke about it. Why do I thank you for that? Well, because you've been watching, although it is the opposition's job to take a critical look at the government and try to direct it to the path that I think is right and it's good, but the truth is that since 8 August 2014 there are two draft laws in the procedure and these are: a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and a bill on amendments and additions to the State Council of Prosecutors' Law. The question arises why have these two laws been in congregation procedures for almost a year, and why not go to their vote? The reason is that we can say that in this year's work is worth the action plan for Chapter 23. The attitude that is busy, which is effectively initiated and supported by the European Commission, is when it comes to matters which are of interest to Chapter 23, which are envisaged by national strategies, i.e. action plans for the implementation of national strategies, whether it is a national strategy for judicial reform, whether it is a national anti-corruption strategy, let's say, in the process of screening and after that, based on the screening report, it is taken the view that when it comes to these things, we wait for the adoption of the action plan for Chapter 23. So, as far as these two draft laws are concerned, a step further has gone. In the drafting of these drafts, before being established as draft laws, participants in the process, and these are representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, professional associations, judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, it has been found that, in order to achieve the objectives set out in the National Strategy for Justice Reform at this time and in these concrete laws, it is not possible to achieve all the objectives set out without constitutional changes in this area. When the draft laws were established and sent to the Assembly, they stood in line with the assembly procedure, and then the European Commission advised us to talk to all participants in this process and to ask them whether they felt that these laws were now, as they were proposed and made by working groups, should be adopted, or that these laws should be postponed for a period of time after the constitutional changes were passed in this area. Everyone has unequivocally defined themselves for this second, and the reason was that we received expertise in the meantime. So, in addition to what the European Commission has been saying, we have received expertise from the Venice Commission, which has drawn attention to us that some of the things provided for by these draft laws do not have their most positive unequivocal opinion. It was also about some of the parts on which inclusion in this text was insisted and professional associations. When the professional associations themselves saw that something they proposed the Venice Commission did not support, they changed their view there. So, thank you for asking, and I've made an effort to explain this. Then a question arises, or question arises, why are these suggestions still in the congregation procedure? Because for a long time, we have thought, too, that some technical changes to those laws that are unambiguous, unequivocally necessary, have been given a consensus of all the participants, which, for example, concerns the regulation of rules and procedures for the conduct of elections for members of the High Council of the judiciary, or the State Council of Prosecutors, are potentially ending the discussion and adoption in this Assembly. But here I was trying to be as clear and clear as possible in this regard. These are the reasons why these bill proposals are still in the process, that is, why they are not discussed for almost a year. Far from how well you've set it up, but with the wrong premise, if there is no such law, there is no will or giving up judicial reform. Of course he's not giving up. The Republic of Serbia as a state and in the process of European integration, but is bound by what has been voted by the National Assembly, which is the National Strategy for Justice Reform, remains defined to reform its judiciary and bring it to such a level of quality that, regardless of whether or not it will be satisfied with the EU, but which will certainly be happier citizens of Serbia than they are today, and Serbia's citizens today are not satisfied with our judiciary, which is also witnessed by the level of trust they have in the judiciary as a branch of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32678	Thank you. So Article 106(1) says - the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I won't give you a replica. No, because you asked a question. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I do not have the right to reply?]] I met Mom Stojanovic yesterday for one question, and the minister answered. We don't want to turn away from the topic, especially what you've done with Martinovic by mentioning the parliamentary group, so we're sure to get out of the topic, which is not our tendency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32679	I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I know, as other fellow MPs know, that my esteemed colleague Pavicevic likes to make a play out of the National Assembly session, but since the SNS parliamentary group is mentioned in a way that is not appropriate, I had to answer the word. Otherwise, I wouldn't answer, because I'm not an actor, and I don't know much about theater, and I'm a bit of a politician. Mr Pavicevic said that there were SNS MPs here all day talking about how good it is to adopt these agreements for the sake of legal certainty. First, these agreements were discussed by Mrs Irena Aleksic and I as an authorised representative from the Serbian Progressive Party. So, no large group of MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party have spoken, so there is no need to treat our parliamentary group with such tone and with such disdain. We stand behind our words. So these contracts will certainly contribute to improving both legal and political and economic relations with the Republic of Turkey and will certainly be one stimulant and Turkish investors to invest even more in Serbia, as they have invested in the end and so far, regardless of what these two draft laws you have mentioned still stand in the assembly procedure. But the legal system of the Republic of Serbia is stable and the government of the Republic of Serbia has made such an environment that everyone can be sure of their investment in our country and in the SNS, or the SNS parliamentary group will continue to support that policy. When you talk about opening a chapter, I have to remind you, Mr. Pavicevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32680	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32681	Here I go. ... . if you were selected on the election list of a party that is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32682	Time! I'm asking you all to respect the time of two minutes, but all of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32683	I'm done. ... promised that Serbia would join the EU in 2004, so in 2007, then in 2012... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32684	Thank you. Ambassador, it's been two minutes. Since there are frequent remarks that the chairman is in violation of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you that everyone follow, so that we may not be the ones who have a higher arch. You explain this about the theater and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, so that, of course, our National Assembly, gentlemen, is not and should not be any play for the public, and in particular, I think, a focus on what is important and what is the meaning of our National Assembly, we show from the opposition, when we direct the gentleman from the executive authority who comes into our legislative body here to the great ideals of the rule of law and, for example, judicial reform, gentlemen. I'm surprised that one graduate lawyer and a doctor of law science concepts of the rule of law and judicial reform, that these concepts associate him with the play, the theater for the public theatre. That surprises me terribly, Your Honor. Here, I responded to Mr. Martinovic, one part of it, and at your request and at your request. I have one more thing to say. The new party has one serious proposal for reform of the judiciary and every time the minister of justice in our government is a guest of our National Assembly, so of course I, as a national MP, will remind the minister and this programme of ours and that we have prepared amendments and these two draft laws that have been sitting in the assembly procedure since 8 August, gentlemen. As for the constitutional review, I agree here with what Minister Selakovic said, but I recommend that it be informed of an idea, one of our proposals on how a constitutional review will be carried out. Minister Selakovic, Mr. Martinovic, Mrs. Gojkovic, the actual constitution, these are the two words behind which our idea lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32686	You didn't ask for time. Thank you. You'll have a chance to explain. Replica, to the theater. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32687	Well, now what the quality of Mr Pavicevic's and Zoran Zivkovic's amendments is, we've had a chance to see, 90% of the amendments are "expunged". There is no great legal and political wisdom, but well, it is their right to do with their amendments what they will. But I have something for you, Mr. Pavicevic, to inform you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32688	But through me, like him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32689	Please inform Mr Pavicevic and inform him. Well done with their suggestions. All the honour of their initiatives to change the Constitution, the honor of their brilliant ideas, but in order to get a chance to make these ideas come true and to make those laws come true, they have to convince the people in the elections that it's good for the people. You have, Mr Pavicevic, as well as the electoral list through which you entered parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32690	Ambassador, you forgot again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32691	He has one problem, the people won't. Now, the people don't want them, and we need to respect their suggestions. So the election proves whether you have legitimacy for your ideas or not. You, Mr. Pavicevic, don't. I'm very sorry, but here comes some next election, all your great ideas about changing the Constitution, about reforming the judiciary, about the fact-finding constitution, etc., all of you present it nicely to the people. If the people support it and if they say that the future of Serbia is Zoran Zivkovic and you, as his deputy, I will be the first to take off your hat, but first to the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32692	I have to give the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, are three things I want to announce here in the replica first of all to Mr Martinovic. First, when we talk about legitimacy, so I have the legitimacy to speak here on behalf of a number of Serbian citizens who voted for me, gentlemen. Well, I was elected to the parliamentary elections that were organised in March 2014. Of course that's why I'm here defending a certain system of ideas, ideals, values, opinions, beliefs. Today, respected gentlemen and Mrs Gojkovic, as an MP for the opposition group in our National Assembly, and after the next parliamentary elections, Mr Martinovic, I believe, as part of the government. I've never been in power, gentlemen. In this assembly, I fight hard, Mrs Gojkovic, to win power and then to apply this system of ideas after the next parliamentary elections. The other thing, Mr. Martinovic constantly resents how we celebrate amendments that voted in part – "is deleted". Yesterday I took part in the meeting of the Committee on Education chaired by Mrs Jerkov for the draft law on the basis of the education and education system...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32694	Ambassador, the replica is exclusive.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32695	Replica, that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32696	I think we're making a theater now, all together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32697	It really isn't. It was the board, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32698	I believe you have a lot of things.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32699	Minister Verbic, whom Mr. Selakovic says is his friend, suggests eradicating a single member of the law's position. What does that mean, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32700	Thank you, MP. Now I'm gonna take a break because I can see this isn't going right. Thank you so much, everyone. I'll take a break because we left the Agreement completely, but very briefly. We continue with Janko Veselinović. So the replica on the replica five hundred times. We've already turned our lines three times. I think two MPs told each other everything they had. Now we'll get back to the agreements, there'll be more. You can disengage everyone from the system because I intend to continue the session with the agenda. [[after breaks]] The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, and be prepared by Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32702	Honored presidents, respected Minister Selakovic, a member of the world's most inefficient government, one of the world's ten most inefficient governments. We have three agreements before us today with the Republic of Turkey. It concerns extradition, legal aid and mutual co-operation between the two states in legal matters, and that is, in any case, good. It's not for the praises we've heard here today from representatives of the ruling coalition. This is one of the conditions for the functioning of the legal system, therefore, and international legal aid and extradition of suspects for crimes. But that's not enough, Minister Selakovic, for full justice. For full justice, it takes the legal system to work. You yourself admitted that Serbian citizens are not satisfied with the way the legal system works and how the courts in Serbia work. Minister Selakovic, you are a three-year minister of justice, you have continuity. So, they're three years old. What did you do to make the judiciary more effective and not to be a country where litigation lasts the longest? One of the countries in the world where judicial disputes last the longest and in which only one part of the maximum applies – justice is... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: This is not a topic. ) (Mirko Krlić, from the place: Theme! )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32703	Ambassador, why are you yelling? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32704	Justice is a dispute, but it's reaching. So the only rule is that justice is slow, but unfortunately, sometimes it's not available for us. The colleagues who shout out in every way that they don't understand that I'm talking about the subject because any international legal aid, Mr. Selakovic, you know well that it would be part of the realisation of justice and judicial proceedings means that the justice system is effective. What happens if you get a face, you get a face delivered that committed a crime in Turkey? What happens if it comes to the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia which unfortunately does not work properly, in which court proceedings take years, in which justice does not have the necessary element, which is to be effective, because only then is it preventive and dissuasive for future perpetrators of criminal acts? You, Mr. Selakovic, as a respected lawyer, as a man who graduated from law school, you know very well that it is an important element. We're signing agreements now. The turnaround movement, I, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, will vote for all three agreements. We confirm these agreements, but what will happen to their realization? Mr Selakovic, what do you ask of us to raise both hands to make the Serbian judiciary more effective? Why don't you do something? Why don't you do something? No Mr. Selakovic, no economy, no economic prosperity or foreign investment if the judiciary is ineffective. There is no foreign investor who will come to a country where trials last years and justice is not available for all. Mr Selakovic, I will support these agreements but today we will not make a serious move in the availability of justice. Nothing significant is going to happen. You need to change the situation in the Serbian judiciary from the ground to make justice available. Do something we will support you and I'm sure everyone in the opposition will give you support if you adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32705	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32706	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to thank my colleague Veselinovic for saying that he would support these three draft laws in the day of voting, and thank him for that, as I can thank him for what he, but also for a part of public social political workers, by trying to repeat only some of them known to be the most inefficient government in the world. Absolutely contradicts what the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Angela Merkel says when he speaks with praise about this government and its effect and the results of its work. I doubt the first personality of a country like the Federal Republic of Germany would speak of a government you call the most inefficient. When, say, Vice President of the United States, Mr. Biden also speaks the same words about this government. I doubt the other U.S. man would call one government, or praise it for its actions, and he considered it the most inefficient. When we talk about our fiscal economic monetary policy measures, the president of the Russian Federation, Mr. Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, speaks. I doubt he would qualify such a government as the most inefficient government. You can say that freely. I suppose with that claim you will go to the upcoming elections and that citizens will certainly measure everything we say and what we do. This is not a topic, but I also accept on the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, and I will speak and report on the activities of the Ministry of Justice, so you will be able to see what the Justice Ministry has done so far on the plan of reforming the Serbian judiciary. You yourself attended here three and a half months ago to discuss an extremely good law that the Council of Europe considers to be a good one, which is precisely aimed at improving the efficiency of our judiciary's work, and this is about the Law on the Protection of the Right of Judgment within a reasonable time. It's one law, but there's a whole series of measures that have been taken. We can agree that these measures should be even more extensive, that they should be more frequent, but you know how, we work with what we have, our judiciary couldn't have been three years ago, not a year ago, and not five years ago all over again to be created. The judiciary, despite regulations, also makes people, and we have the kind of people we have, and within the limits of the possible, we can achieve some results. You've probably lost it, but I want to believe that you've lost it, not that you didn't understand the system of mutual legal assistance at all when it comes to extradition. We are not asking for the extradition of a person who committed a crime in Turkey from Turkey. He is being tried by Turkish courts for this crime. We can ask Turkey for a person who has committed a certain crime in Serbia's territory. You said something quite the opposite. I want to believe that you've made a lapus and that you haven't, because you're a graduate lawyer, too, you're a professor, if I'm not mistaken for economic rights, not at law school, but I want to believe that you've lost it. These agreements will be something epic for our judiciary, not whether it will be a significant step forward for the mutual legal co-operation that exists between Turkey's judiciary and Serbia's judiciary, between the Turkish Ministry of Justice and the Serbian Ministry of Justice, I absolutely claim it will. And that this is a good step and that this is a step that we can't say directly for the extradition agreement, or a mutual legal aid agreement in criminal matters, but when we talk about civil, commercial matters, it certainly won't be insignificant and to strengthen economic and economic co-operation between Serbia and Turkey which is good and which really has and how great potential to be even better. This may be one small brick in the construction of these good economic, partnership relations that Serbia and Turkey are building and should not ignore such a contribution. With you in any case, on every occasion, we should always discuss both the results and the measures taken and those to be taken in the area of justice, and by the Ministry of Justice, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is always at my disposal and I am always willing to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32707	Replica, MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32708	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm afraid you didn't understand something. So, I was talking about a contract between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on extradition, where Article 1 clearly states -- foreign Contracting Parties undertake to extradite, in accordance with the provisions and conditions provided for in this Treaty, all persons being prosecuted for any offence committed or sought for the execution of a sentence or arrest warrant. So it's about handing out your face and I'm talking about it. Maybe there's something we didn't get along well. When it comes to the assessment that the government in which you are the Government of Alexander Vukic is one of the most effective governments in the world, that is not my assessment, Mr Selakovic, it is the assessment of the World Economic Forum based on measurable parameters. So these are parameters that can be calculated by mathematical precision, efficiency in certain areas. True, there are worse countries than we are, it is several African countries and one country from the European continent. I have no doubt that with this kind of approach to things, first of all your colleagues will reach the top of that scale, but therefore, this is not about any individual assessment. What are the political assessments of Merkel and Vladimir Vladimir Vladimir Putin, who give political assessments according to their political interests. This is a serious analysis and you are one of the most effective governments in the world, for the first time on such a list is one Serbian government and this is unfortunately against the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32709	Time. Thank you. Minister Selakovic, he has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32710	I thank the Honorable Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so here I am to the distinguished predecessor and colleagues, Mr. Veselinović, proposing to take the stenographic notes of the National Assembly. I thank him twice for calling our government the most effective government in the world and thank Mr. Veselinović for such a qualification, from one of the representatives of the opposition and how nice to hear it. But if you don't believe you take a nice transcript and look here that you said it in the last two minutes, twice. Thank you for that, and you've also joined Mr. Putin and Mrs. Merkel, and I must say that this is one big breakthrough for you personally, if that's what you've figured out. As for the moment before you said, I will quote you, you said: “What will happen if we get a face from the extradition agreement that committed the crime in Turkey? “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” You have read the first member of this bill, or contract, to which this law is confirmed, but you have not read further. You can also read further on what crimes are required for extradition. You said at the time that we were looking for the extradition of a person who committed some crime in Turkey, which is an act for which the person is being processed under Turkish law. We may be looking, but not on the basis of this contract, the transfer of that person, to support the punishment with us, and for being the most effective government, I'm glad that in a few minutes you've changed your mind and that you've confirmed it twice in your presentation. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32711	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32712	Madam President, a 106th member has been injured who says the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. The majority of Mr. Vesenovic's presentations did not refer to any of the agreements on the agenda today, he talked about that according to some of his measurable results from the World Economic Forum, the Serbian government is one of the most inefficient. He mentioned a European country that is again under his information in a worse situation than Serbia. I guess he meant Croatia. Mr. Janko Veselinović is very well aware of the situation in Croatia, because Croatia is a country that is in a major economic crisis and is about to be threatened by the Greek scenario.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32713	Please, you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32714	Yes, because Mr. Janko Veselinović did not talk about the agenda point...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32715	No, he's replicated with Minister Nikola Selakovic, I wouldn't let him...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32716	... But you will admit that the topic of the agenda is not...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32717	It wasn't about the agenda, it was about the replica on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32718	... But the topic of the agenda is the three international agreements the government signed with Turkey, and it is not a global economic crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32719	Yes, but the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please, I've told you in advance, and you can confirm.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32720	Do I have the right to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32721	About the injury of the Rules of Procedure, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32722	... And do I have the right to defend the government with the same passion as Mr. Janko Veselinovic's attack?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32723	Absolutely, when you answer and when a parliamentary group is mentioned or you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32724	... It's about Alexander Vukic, he's the president of my party. I guess I represent Alexander Vukic, like the 136 people sitting here, I don't represent myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32725	Yes, what you said, you will think for yourself about how much this has been directed to me, and I thank you for that, but I continue to hold a session the way each chairman should lead, whom MPs constantly warn that he is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32726	Here, I really don't want to go into controversy with you. Your right to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32727	No, I want to answer you, but you're jumping into my word. I want to answer you, article 106. It means only the agenda point, but when the discussion is about the agenda, and not when the replicas between the minister and certain MPs are replicating each other, it's about some of the other topics that they've been worshiping each other, so I answered, because it says that the right to the line is up to two minutes, but when someone tries to abuse it, the chairman can cut it. Thank you. I answered. If you think I'm breaking the thousandth time Rules of Procedure, I fully agree with your right to vote on it. If you wish, shall we vote in parliament on the violation of the Rules of Procedure? You don't want to. Thank you. The word goes on with Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32728	I thank the president. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that I am truly sorry that today I fell into a specific position on the list of speakers in the current order, but I am sorry and truly sorry, that the distinguished previous speaker has certain fears, not to say trauma. I hope that they will have the strength to overcome these problems, to overcome their fears, and to be persistent in that, because these fears sometimes lead to confusion, and to talk about things that have nothing to do with what is on the agenda, mention the word "efficiency", and I will admit that it is the most effective MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32729	Ambassador, I kindly ask you to be the MP you've been so far and not to fall into a trap to replicate and not to want to talk about agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32730	I will and I thank you for warning me. I will be very brief in my presentation for the reason that the speakers so far have mostly highlighted the most important arguments, why today's law proposals should be adopted, but I would like because of the importance of underlining the most significant thesis, when it comes to the bill's proposals. In any case, I support the bill's proposals, the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on mutual legal assistance in construction and commercial matters, as well as a proposal for a contract between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on extradition. These proposed contracts are said to significantly strengthen bilateral relations between the two countries and further improve security protection, as well as the legal security of citizens of the two countries. By concluding these contracts, the Treaty of Confirmation, on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty in Construction and Trade Matters, conditions are created for firmer, more mandatory and effective legal cooperation in order to combat crime, as they concern those persons who are prosecuted in one State or are already convicted of a particular criminal offence, and prevents the possibility of fleeing to another country, thereby avoiding criminal proceedings. Furthermore, by concluding a bilateral agreement on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, there is a basis for more efficient, diverse and extensive co-operation between these two countries in the area of organised crime, as one of the most dangerous types of crime, which is, you will certainly agree in the spirit of major dangers lurking from organised crime, international terrorism, very important in security terms, both for Serbia and Turkey. In particular, given Turkey's most recent unfavorable events, bombings, terrorist attacks in favour of the threat of organised crime and terrorism. When it comes to the third law, the Treaty on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters, we promote and strengthen co-operation between the competent authorities of the two countries in order to speed up the higher level and the greater level of protection of legal and natural persons in this co-operation. The fight against crime, particularly organised crime, is one of the priorities of every modern state in the world and for that reason, but also for all the reasons I have stated, I call and propose that we adopt today's draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32731	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32732	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, vice-presidents, ministers, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come to the most beautiful municipalities in Serbia, Svrlig municipality, located next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. Yesterday, we talked about agreements between Serbia and America regarding traffic, air traffic and other types of traffic, and today we are talking about agreements and co-operation between our Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey. It means a lot to our government, to our country and to our people. I will now talk about the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters. Confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters has great importance for the continuation of good co-operation between the two countries, in the p-equity area, and for deepening further co-operation in the area of justice. Clearly, an independent and efficient judiciary is a good basis for comprehensive co-operation in other areas and only such a judiciary can provide legal certainty and enable investors to invest, to new employment of our workers, to launch many more accompanying actions, to buy raw materials, to general development of the region in which it is invested. Serbia and Turkey still have many significant mutual agreements, such as the Free Trade Agreement, visa waivers, double taxation avoidance agreements, which together with these contracts that are on the agenda of our session, mutual legal assistance agreements in the area of civil, commercial, criminal matters, extradition, open a real way to improve the relations of the two countries, rounding up one continent and regulating all major issues. Serbia and Turkey traditionally cultivate friendly relations, but it is also necessary to constantly improve them, ensure investor legal certainty, and thus a greater trade exchange. We know that many Turkish businessmen are interested in investing in Serbia, primarily in building infrastructure and agriculture. In both countries, about 20% of the population is engaged in agriculture and is in the mutual interest of strengthening co-operation in this area. For the past ten years, trade in goods has been on the rise, but imports from Turkey are still significantly higher than our exports to this country, but we also have our major exporters such as Petrochemia Pancevo, Tiger Tigs Pirot, Fiat Cars Kragujevac, Copper Pipe Factory Majdanpek and others. The subject of this mutual and legal assistance contract and in civil and commercial matters is the same legal and judicial protection of personal property rights and the interests of a citizen of a contracted party in the territory of the other Contracting Party, i.e. the same legal and judicial protection as of their own nationals. Citizens of both states have free access to courts and other competent authorities to protect their rights and interests in civil and commercial matters under exactly the same conditions as its own citizens. Legal persons established in the territories of one of the Contracting States shall enjoy the rights laid down in this Treaty in accordance with the law of that State. In order to achieve mutual legal assistance, the competent departments of justice are acting through a plea for legal aid. Legal aid shall consist of making calls to other court letters and carrying out evidence such as taking statements, issuing different documents or verifying their credibility by hearing witnesses, drawing up lists, issues to be asked. The application procedure shall be carried out under the rules of the requested party which normally bear and all costs incurred in its territory. Exceptionally, the requested party has the right to compensation for costs which is explicitly specified by the contract. The contract also correctly regulates a number of personal documents which apply on the territory of the other party without any overarching or translation and without compensation. All documents issued by the competent authorities of one Contracting Party shall have the same power of proof in the territory of the other Contracting Party whenever it is regulated and exempted from the payment of litigation costs and costs of the proceedings, free legal assistance, recognition and enforcement of judicial decisions, the exercise of the right to be exercised by the competent decision-making authority. Confirming this bilateral agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in building and commercial matters creates conditions for improving co-operation between the two countries and not only in the legal and judicial areas, but also enables more co-operation in all areas and contributes to greater protection of natural and legal persons in this co-operation. So this agreement and these agreements that we are talking about now will mean a lot to the citizens of our Republic of Serbia, to our local self-government, because the great chance is co-operation with the Republic of Turkey and there are a number of investors who invest with us in Serbia. Therefore, the adoption of these laws and these agreements will make it a safer investment for all who come to us. I will vote in favour of this set of agreements with both the Republic of Turkey and the previous ones related to traffic and air traffic with America from this place as an MP for the United Peasant Party from the SNS list. I would like to invite all fellow Members of Parliament to vote for this set of laws because we have a great chance of helping our agricultural production, bringing investors from Turkey and other countries and finally providing our agriculture with a brighter and better future, thus ensuring a better future for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for those living in the country and for those living from the village and for those living in the municipalities where I come from, that is the Municipality of Srljig where there is a recognizable agricultural production related to livestock, for quality cheese, Srljljjski Belmuz. We will call normally after such a signing, or adoption, we will have the opportunity to invite our friends from Turkey to come to Serbia to invest, to come to Serbia as tourists. Here again I call upon all the people and all the MPs, under the number of one MPs, and the citizens of Serbia to trust in our government, in our prime minister, because we will help these things for the safe future of our children and children. At the same time, I welcome everyone and would like to offer my condolences to the victims of a terrorist attack in Turkey, and I wish everyone a lot of health and happiness. Once again, an invitation for all to vote on this bill. I will always vote for all the laws, as I have said, which is proposed by the Government headed by our prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32733	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under the article. The 96th Rules of Procedure? The word has been issued by MP Nedo Jovanovic, an authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32734	I thank the chairman. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, it is indeed a great pleasure that today literally all MPs, or all MP groups, have and what a good reason to support this set of laws. Today, in a principle debate and focused solely on what poses certain risks in the text part of these contracts, and motivated by what the esteemed MP Gordana Komic said, I would just like to add something else that I am convinced that you ministers have and how to pay attention to, and since I know the way you work that you are not leaving anything to the case, I would just like to point out one problem that can arise from the application of Article 6 of the Treaty that we conclude with the Republic of Turkey, or confirm that extradition contract. In fact, the good solution is that each party Contracting Party has the right to refuse to hand over its citizens. The solution is extremely correct. However, there is already one problem in Section 2 that can in practice cause certain risks under the judicial system, especially judicial proceedings in our country. Why? Because it is defined that the property of a citizen is assessed at the time of the extradition decision, it is not disputed. However, if the requested person is admitted to the nationality of the requested party in the time between the decision on extradition and the date foreseen for surrender, the requested party shall not have to extradite such person. What does that mean in practice? In practice, this means that a Serbian citizen who has escaped because of the possibility of being subject to a judicial decision and carrying out criminal sanctions is subject to extradition, a decision has been made to deliver him and then, in time from the decision to the date scheduled for extradition, to apply to Turkey to become a Turkish citizen. In this situation, hypothetically, it is legally possible that the Turkish government and the Turkish Ministry of Justice say we accept your request and you are citizens of Turkey from today. It is therefore already in a situation to be excluded from the possibility of extradition to the Republic of Serbia. Why are we pointing this out? Because you will certainly have the opportunity to pay attention to this and another additional caution to eliminate these things, namely these opportunities and circumstances as a whole. Once again, indeed all the MPs thanked for the support of these agreements, all our well-intentioned suggestions had one far-reaching approach in terms of improving the law by the fact that we would support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32735	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. I'm concluding a joint single search. We move to the 7th point of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION on the Election of the Republic Public Prosecutor. You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the government, as well as the opinion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government. Before the search opens, I remind you that it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 201(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the motion for a decision to elect a republican public prosecutor. Does the representative of the promoter Mr Nikola Selakovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the minister of justice Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32736	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President Becic. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a motion for a decision on the election of a republican public prosecutor, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and at the proposal of the State Council of Prosecutors. At the proposal of the State Council of Prosecutors, the government proposes that Mrs Zagorka Dolovac, the current republican public prosecutor of the Republic of Serbia, be elected as a republican public prosecutor. I'll brief you on some information from Mrs. Dolovac's life and business biography. Zagorka Dolovac was born on 12 October 1966 in Novi Sad. She graduated from a famous high school in Sremski Karlovci and graduated from the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad in 1989, while she passed the judicial exam in 1992. As prosecutor's intern, she worked at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad from 1990 to 1992. the year, until it was from 1992-1996. she worked as a prosecutor's associate at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad. In 1996, she was elected deputy municipal public prosecutor at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad, in which she served as a public prosecutor until 2004, when she was elected deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad. During that period, she performed a public prosecutorial post, working on the most complex cases under the jurisdiction of the District Public Prosecutor's Office. Zagorka Dolovac was appointed as a public prosecutor in Belgrade's District Public Prosecutor's Office in 2007. She was in charge until the end of 2009. During the handling of this public prosecutor's office as the largest public prosecutor's office in the Republic of Serbia, she was in charge of organising the work and handling of all public prosecutor's office in the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, as well as of directing and overseeing the work of both the District Public Prosecutor's Office and all municipal public prosecutors in the City of Belgrade. After the elections by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it took office as the republic's public prosecutor of the Republic of Serbia on 1 January 2010. In her work so far in the framework of the Constitution and the law of the prescribed powers, she sought to ensure effective and effective treatment of the public prosecutors of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to significantly strengthen capacities and improve the functioning of the public prosecutor's system, as well as co-operation with other state bodies, oraganations, as well as civil society organisations and international partners in the fight against all forms of crime and the repression of crimes most affected by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the context of her responsibilities, she has ensured the dedicated involvement of the Public Prosecutor's Office in developing and implementing strategic documents of the Republic of Serbia to improve the work of the judiciary and to make progress in European integration, all in order to ensure more levels of rule of law and better and safer society in the Republic of Serbia. Continuing on the previously built structure and improving the principles of work, its public prosecutorial experience in both first-degree and first-degree management and then in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, or the general public prosecutor's office of the Republic of Serbia, Zagorka Dolovac planned and proposed to the State Council of Prosecutors to continue handling the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, i.e. The public prosecutor's office in the Republic of Serbia, and to ensure the successful conduct of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the fight against crime and other laws of regulated areas of work, in line with the priorities described in the programme of organisation and improvement of the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the period from 2016 to 2022, and in accordance with the state policy of the Republic of Serbia and in coordination with other state bodies. In this respect, the candidate for the Republic Public Prosecutor, Ms Zagorka Dolovac, in line with the programme, has set out as her priorities for the upcoming period: one, a uncompromising fight against crime, particularly organised crime, corruption, other forms of serious crime, including the confiscation of property arising from the crime, two, an increase in the efficiency of criminal prosecution, including effective application of the prosecutor's investigation, a plea and opportunity agreement and three, the intensifying of international co-operation, including active participation in the EU accession process and international legal assistance and co-operation both in bilateral relations, and through European and regional judicial networks, such as Eurojust and CCPE. Also, given the significant role of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the production and handling of the most important strategic documents, the Republic Public Prosecutor has played a significant role in the implementation of the National Strategy for Justice Reform and the Action Plan for its implementation since 2013-2018, as well as in the development and planned implementation of action plans for the negotiating chapters 23 and 24 of the EU accession process as the priority state objective of the Republic of Serbia. In the course of her current term, Zagorka Dolovac has taken care of improving the human and technical capacities of the public prosecutor's office through an increase in the number of public prosecutor's office, prosecutor's and other staff, as well as the implementation of international projects through which public prosecutors are equipped and professional training of public prosecutors. It also advocated the consistent implementation of basic principles in the work of the public prosecutor's office, independence, impartiality, accountability and professionalism. The Republic's public prosecutor, Zagorka Dolovac, also took steps to establish disciplinary bodies to strengthen the responsibility of public prosecutors and to improve international co-operation of the public prosecutor's office in order to optimally handle cases of transnational crime, but also to best represent the public prosecutor's office and our state as a reliable partner in international co-operation. Not only are the meetings, the memos and agreements reached, but what I would particularly point out, and these are the realised actions of the joint investigation teams formed between our public prosecutor's office and the public prosecutors of foreign states, and in which the conclusion was carried out by the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, significant successes have been achieved precisely in the field of combating transnational crime, and the republican public prosecutor has made his own significant contribution. As a republican public prosecutor, our prosecutor's candidate, Zagorka Dolovac, has set up a continuation and improvement of the fight against crime, particularly in the field of fighting organised crime, corruption, the confiscation of property arising from criminal acts, the fight against human rights, the protection of human rights or the fight against discrimination, the fight against crime with elements of violence, especially domestic violence, the fight against terrorism, the fight against war crimes and high-tech crime, as well as the effective implementation of relevant national strategies and action plans and further strengthening the capacity of the public prosecutor's office, the continuation and improvement of co-operation with other state bodies, international organisations, and the best interests of the justice system and rule of law, but also citizens of the Serbian state. Let me finally say that sometimes we can all right, and I was rarely able to be Mrs. Dolovac herself as a republican public prosecutor to talk about her personal dissatisfaction by functioning some parts of the system. When you look at the level of the public prosecutor's office six years ago, where 12, 20 years ago, you can say that in the system area some things are really improved. Could it be better, could it be more intense, more efficient, certainly there's room for it. I must point out once again that, especially in those monsters that are in the context of circumstances, with opportunities, recognised as one of the main problems, I have mentioned not only the fight against transnational crime, not only the fight against organised crime, I have mentioned the struggle against domestic violence, that in such cases Mrs Dolovac as the Republic Public Prosecutor has always shown the highest level of understanding, willingness to co-operate, inter-resorship, not only at the level of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, but also the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, employment, social and martial arts issues and other ministries, but also other state bodies, such as the police, and that one, I can say freely and responsibly, of the most constructive members of these joint working groups and bodies. I will mention, for example, the fight against violence at sports events, where the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office also played a significant role, but also in the creation of a strategic document that we adopted as a government two months ago and whose results you will soon be able to have in front of you in the procedure in the National Assembly, which is the Strategy for the Promotion and Development of Financial Investigations, the fight against economic and financial crime, where, with the fight against corruption, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, led by Mrs Dolovac, has made really significant contributions. Convinced that it will give its personal maximum, and knowing that it will have full support in the Ministry of Justice for everything it has set and as a goal in its future mandate, I urge you to support in the voting day a motion to elect a republican public prosecutor, where the Government of the State Major Prosecutors has proposed, and the Government is proposing to you, Mrs. Zagorko Dolovac. She, in my personal belief, is a woman who grew up in the state service, who knows what the state is and who, by her conduct, is at the place of the republican public prosecutor so far, has shown it. What I would especially like to point out here, at the end of this opening statement, is the fact that after a few decades, this may be the first time that a person who is almost one term, not over, because only at the end of this year, it is the period on which she was first elected as a republican public prosecutor, will be able to be re-elected. If we are inclined to do something and sometimes tend to do something, and these are some kinds of and political considerations and political prejudices, and state and national responsibility, we can say that this is a good thing for our system, which means that you will be able to start reforms in one good direction, and I am confident, as I said, that in your second term, Mrs Dolovac will give an even greater and even more significant personal contribution to improving the work of the public prosecutor's office and the position of a public prosecutor's organisation in the system of government in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32737	Thank you, Mr. Selakovic. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? (No) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is from the MP Srdjan Kružević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32738	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, since we have received a proposal from the Assembly on the appointment of Ms Zagorka Dolovac as the republican public prosecutor, in front of the Unique Serbia, I have a desire and a commitment to say a few of our views on the subject. Of course, in June 19th, the government proposed to the Serbian Parliament to elect a republican public prosecutor for a period of six months, since we know that the State's chief prosecutors and the government have called a competition under the rules for running and electing prosecutors and deputies and set out a list of candidates. We have been informed that Zagorka Dolovac has met all the conditions for re-election, or re-running for the republican public prosecutor. Today, the congregation committee in charge confirmed that. What is important is to say that criteria are common to all EU countries and value the expertise, plan and programme of the prosecution's work organisation, as well as the test passed by all candidates. When people of the profession consider themselves to be a good candidate, I think that we are left in the National Assembly just to verify it and to call Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac a Republic Public Prosecutor. We believe that as a candidate she has performed well as a republican prosecutor, has been able to manage authorities in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, with good coordination over the work of lower public prosecutors and adequate representation of authorities in the country and abroad. The fight against organised crime and everything that has happened in the near past, i.e. in 2012, is certainly a good part and credit to Mrs. Dolovac, who should be re-elected in the voting day. I don't want to repeat everything we've received in the material and as far as Mrs. Dolovac's biography is concerned, and the minister also spoke very extensively about it. We of Unity Serbia believe that it is a very logical trail to give Mrs Dolovac's new mandate and, on behalf of my party, I would like to invite all MPs in the National Assembly to vote unanimously for this proposal, and the Unique Serbia will definitely support this election in the Day of Vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32739	Thank you, Mr. Kruževic. The word has an authorised representative, MP Slobodan Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32740	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is what I think is important at the very beginning of the presentation to say that this is not about the government's proposal, but about the proposal by the State Council of Prosecutors based on the competition. Mr. Minister knows well, and this is something where we will agree, and that is that it is also a recommendation from the Venice Commission that, when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is amended, it is now removing this moment that the Government is taking a proposal from the State Council of Prosecutors and, in fact, proposing it to the National Assembly, because the Venice Commission felt that it was a step more in the interference of the executive authority and that is something that I believe will be undisputed in the future. Why do I mention this in my presentation? I have always shared the view that we as the National Assembly should adopt and declare proposals coming from both the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, that these bodies should, by their definition, be – the judiciary independent, the prosecution independently and that the executive authority, or the National Assembly as an institution that elects executive power, should have as little influence as possible. Of course, I won't comment much on the proposal in that sense, but I will refer to the minister's presentation. You all know that I very often disagree with the moves of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all, what I find most interesting is the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, but I will have to most agree with today's presentation by Mr. Minister, above all in the description of what Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac has done as a republican public prosecutor. What I also think is particularly important is the question of continuity. Unfortunately, our institutions are often very collapsed, that one person, during one term of office, cannot fully implement reforms and I am glad that Mrs Dolovac will have the opportunity to really round up everything she started as a republican public prosecutor in the next six years. We can be dissatisfied today with the work of the police and the prosecution and we could talk a lot about it, but I think we can also agree as an opposition along with the position that the real work of the republican public prosecutor and the reputation of that institution has been improved over the past six years in relation to some earlier times. As much as it pleases someone or doesn't, I think that from the first day that the State's greater prosecutor was formed, it's quite a reduced political influence on the work of the prosecution, which is indisputable, which has existed, it exists today and will exist in the future, but you can't make an ideal system. I think by choosing quality and strong people, that influence can be reduced. What I'm trying to say is that as a parliamentary group in voting day, we will support the State's Council of Prosecutors' proposal, that we will vote in favour of Zagorka Dolovac's election as Republic Public Prosecutor. I hope that in the future this practice will continue, when it comes to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that through its constitutional powers it will not affect the choice of any prosecution, any judges, and that we will leave full responsibility to these institutions. Of course, what is our role is to follow the work, and they themselves will be responsible for their mistakes. I think it's a step that we need to, as much as we can, and maybe it still sounds very, so to speak, from some point of view that may not be realistic, it might sound utopian that we're going to get one day institutions that are going to be independent of politics and political influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32741	Thank you, Mr. Homen. The word is by Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, an authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32742	I thank you, Mr. Becic. The SNS parliamentary group will support a proposal by the government of the Republic of Serbia to elect Zagorka Dolovac as the republican public prosecutor, for the reasons set out in this proposal. I don't think I need to repeat what Minister Selakovic said about Mrs Dolovac's work and professional biography. The government's proposal was preceded by a procedure that took place in the State Council of Prosecutors. The state's major prosecutor among three candidates, Zagorka Dolovac, Ivan Markovic and Aleksandr Mladenovic, proposed to the government of the Republic of Serbia, Ms Zagorko Dolovac, since she had a competition, i.e. won 70 points, and Mr. Ivan Markovic 55 points and Mr. Aleksandar Mladenovic 50 points. The competition was conducted and the score of the candidates reported was conducted in accordance with the law and other applicable regulations and the SNS parliamentary group has full confidence in the decision of the State Council of Prosecutors and in the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that Ms. Zagorka Dolovac is the best possible candidate for the role of the Republic Public Prosecutor. We, as I have already said, will support this proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia in the day of voting. What I want to point out is that this is the behavior of the government that sets standards of which we of the SNS are convinced, no government that comes after this government will be able to step down. What's this about? On October 5th, 2000, a kind of political cutting of princes was carried out in Serbia. So, in the atmosphere of the brutal political heifer, which turned to moments and into physical accounts with political insolents, all those who performed important state functions in October 2000, regardless of whether it was political functions or whether it was functions in the judiciary, were literally cleaned from their functions overnight. There was no question at all whether anyone had done his job well and securely, if anyone had been sacrificed, if he had fulfilled his legal obligations. The fact that it did not belong or that there was a suspicion that it did not belong or that it did not support forces that took over power in an anti-constitutional way on October 5, 2000 was sufficient reason for these people to be removed from their posts. On those October 2000 days, even later, you had an example. a proposal to pass a law on frustration, to ban people who, as it was said then and how modern it was to say in the 1990s, the dark 90s, to perform responsible state functions, to ban them, if I am not mistaken, for 10 years in the future to be candidates for any state function at all. I remember a statement by one of the former DOS leaders, who said that some judges were guilty only because they were tried by the laws that were in force at the time, which in his opinion was a great sin because the laws were bad. The government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic and without the backup support of the SNS parliamentary group, introduced something that has not been recorded in Serbia's past legal and political history. So we gave up any kind of political revenge. No one can transfer SNS, Aleksandra Vukic or any of the ministers to sanctify themselves to the people of the former regime, and in particular cannot transfer us to put political pressure on courts and public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. So, in their seats they stayed, to remind you, Miljko Radisavljevic, Vladimir Vukcevic, and here will be re-elected Mrs Zagorka Dolovac. In his post, Mr Sasa Jankovic, although he had major objections to the individual performances of SNS MPs, felt his independence was compromised. Rodoljub Sabic remained in office. Many of the other people we have remained in office may be reluctant to say, but which we both found in 2012 and 2014. None of these people did happen to any of the people who were replaced with their functions after 5 October 2000, and some of them physically lynched. No one was threatened to be cut to the head or his child would be cut to the head. No one's out of work and no one's getting paid. No one responsible for saving his job has, after all, been removed from their post. I know that there are a lot of members of the SNS who ask one, I can freely say a sound question – is it possible that perhaps there are no people among the SNS supporters who would, for example,. could be a republican public prosecutor, who could be the Protector of the Citizens, the Commissioner for Public Information, or perform any other state function? But the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS set that standard to stop political revenge, to give people a chance, no matter what period they were chosen to do their job in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and time will show whether they will do it or not. This absolutely contributes to stabilising political opportunities in the Republic of Serbia, bringing political tensions to the lowest possible level. We can, here in the National Assembly, maybe direct each other and sometimes a little harder words, but none of us, especially the Government, must question the functioning of the state as an organized political system. This government does it in the best possible way and shows it. So, there's no rematch, there's no revenge, no one has to fear for their function if he's doing his job in accordance with the Constitution and the law, so maybe he's the most politically possible opponent of the SNS. I must remind you that several months ago, for example, an atmosphere was created in the media that the SNS would replace Mr. Sasa Jankovic because in his report and in his public appearances he came forward more as a politician and less as a protector of the gunmen, so it didn't happen. Then the atmosphere was created that we would replace the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, so it did not happen; that Vladimir Vukcevic would be replaced, because we do not like some of his statements concerning certain proceedings initiated by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office; and that we would take over Mirko Radisavljevic, so that we would replace this or that. And none of that happened. Now, I'm asking my colleagues from the former regime, was that possible at the time they were in power? Could anyone have imagined that a republican public prosecutor, a civil defender, would have trusted information of public importance, that any more serious and important state official would remain in office, despite the fact that the composition of the National Assembly had changed? By 2012, by 2014, this was absolutely not possible. From 2012, i.e. from 2014, 2015 onwards, this will be a legal and political standard. So we must not question the functioning of the judicial system, regardless of what we can say about someone's private political conviction. I think this is a great commendation for both the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has set standards in other areas of social life. There have been many criticisms from the ranks of members of the ruling regime, e.g. when it comes to economic and fiscal measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But the Serbian government has also set standards in those areas that no government will be able to overcome afterwards. No one will ever be in charge without having an economic basis for it. No one will be able to owe the Republic of Serbia more to raise salaries and pensions from the loan. No one will be able to make false promises to Serbian citizens anymore. So, as we set standards in the economy, in public finances, we, in this way, support the Government of the Republic of Serbia to choose Zagorka Dolovac as a republican public prosecutor, set standards in the field of justice, not to be seen as happening in 2009 and 2000, that people were losing their jobs, that personal and family tragedies were happening, just because someone thought that someone else was politically inappropriate. There are no politically inadequate ones for this government. There are capable and incompetent. There are those who want to do their job, according to the Constitution and the law, and those who won't. Those who want it, the government of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic and the SNS are giving them a hand to do everything together to make the state of Serbia better than it was by 2012. You have seen, many have not believed, many have not understood, even among the members of the SNS why it is, for example. Tanja Miscevic, head of the Serbian government's negotiating team in negotiations with the European Union, and as far as I know, is not a member of the SNS. And I don't know if I'm, for example, the vice president of the SNS parliamentary group, nice to her. I probably didn't. But it doesn't bother her to do an important state job in a high-quality and successful way. So this way we set some standards that are important for the functioning of the state. The state is a serious matter. The state is, as the old Romans would say, a real public, a public matter, not a party thing. We thus show that we do not view the judiciary exclusively as party glasses. We don't need party public prosecutors and party judges. We don't need judges and public prosecutors to protect officials or members of the SNS if they've committed any crime. There have been many difficult words from former regime MPs at the expense of Aleksandar Vukic and numerous ministers in the Serbian government and at the expense of SNS MPs and other SNS officials. Now I ask them, that we really want to protect ourselves from some of our dishonest and illegal actions, if we really want to protect ourselves from the crime we're committing, if we want to protect ourselves from the damage that we allegedly do to the citizens of Serbia, so do we choose Zagorka Dolovac as the republican public prosecutor? Would they leave Miljko Radisavljevic to be the prosecutor for organised crime, Vladimir Vukcevic, the war crimes prosecutor? No, I'm sure he wouldn't. So we don't need the judiciary to protect us personally from applying the Constitution and the law. We need the judiciary because it needs Serbian citizens. We thus show good will for the final judiciary in Serbia, in the right sense, to become independent. We hope that this will happen when the next government and government come after it, that the judiciary will not be looked at by party glasses, but will be measured exclusively by the results of work, knowledge, ability, experience, willingness to do its job sacrificedly and honestly. Because of this, the SNS parliamentary group, I repeat this once again, will support the proposal by the Government of Serbia to elect Mrs Dolovac as a republican public prosecutor, as we, on the other hand, expect from her, but also from other holders of the highest judicial functions in the Republic of Serbia to do their job in accordance with the Constitution and the law, to do it objectively, to do it honestly and to, in the words of the apostle Paul, when it comes to fighting crime, really do not see who is who, because neither do we from the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32743	Thank you. Since none of the authorised representatives are left, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in a single search. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. He's not here. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. He's not here. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32744	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what is most remarkable to me in today's discussion, and even in the days preceding this decision proposed by the Government to the National Assembly, is that there is one full peace, that there is no larma, there is no objection, there are no views that oppose the procedure that has been led and that has led to today's debate on the proposal to elect Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac for the republican public prosecutor. This is because a political climate was created, a peace in the country that gave its light and through one legal peace, through decisions that are very transparent, which are far from all political parties. There's no influence from the parties that are in power. All of us as MPs reported on the process through public information funds, reading when a competition was called for the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, reading who the candidates were. Given that there were some members of the SNS among the candidates, some SNS supporters, but apparently they did not pass through a dense enough of the State Council of Prosecutors because a rule on the criteria and criteria for the selection of prosecutors was adopted, for the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, where criteria and criteria were established in a clear and transparent manner, where the expertise, competence and dignity of all candidates were established. Those who were not part of the judiciary, they had to be tested in writing, to plead on many issues, and apparently that many of them, not knowing the technology and the technique of behaviour and work in the public prosecutor's office, failed to pass the test. What is most important in all of this, and what is very important and specific to all SNS Members, is that we have in no way influenced the proposal and the appointment of the one who will come before this Assembly today by name and by name. It was a professional public job, it was a work of a professional body called the State Major Prosecutors, which opened a competition in May of the month, following the adoption of a regulation that I mentioned earlier, which laid down clear criteria and criteria for the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor. The competition was attended by all those who wanted to. The competition was public and completely transparent. Anyone who thought it was worth it could make an improvement in the work of the republican prosecutor's office was on that list. The Commission, formed by the State Council of Prosecutors, is in the best way possible, interviews, talks, a written statement on the plan and programme for the development of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office in a broad range of activities both vertically and horizontally, both with co-workers in the prosecutor's office and with co-workers from the primary state bodies and the non-governmental sector. Everything the minister said wasn't necessary to say. We had enough of what we got as a proposal from the government. We got a biography of all the candidates, we got a grade. It's clear that Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac got the highest score, 70. It is clear that these points were determined on the basis of her knowledge, her experience, her previous work, that the other candidates received fewer grades because their plans, their programmes were less, perhaps less directed to further development of the prosecution. Personally, as a professional and long-term man who has been in the judiciary for a long time, I fully agree that someone who has spent six years doing a very difficult period of work of the Republic Public Prosecutor, who is very responsible, at some point was even dangerous, should continue to do the job. It should continue because it has gained experience, because it has some knowledge that other candidates do not have, it has been at the top of the hill since 2009. Many of the breaking moments in this country survived and realized that it was the prosecutor's job to abide by the criminal code and the criminal code. I would like to point out that we, as a parliamentary group, will certainly give confirmation of what the Republic government has given to this assembly by accepting the proposal of the State Council of Prosecutors, believing that what Mr Selakovic has been doing for the past three years is also a continuity. In a way, it is also a guarantee to all of us that such a proposal represents the political will of the majority, but in the sense that we as MPs, we as SNS don't ask to have our prosecutors, we don't want to have our own judges. I would remind myself that this was not the case until 2012, I would remind myself of the famous reform of the judiciary in 2009 on the year 2010 that many accidents brought to people over 800 or 900 judges and prosecutors stayed on the street, were thrown out in the most brutal way without any respect for the criteria and criteria, were politically unsecured, marked by municipal committees of the then ruling parties. This just shows the size of the SNS. This just proves that we people who want to be adjudicated to justice, who want to be tried by the laws of this country, that anyone who is elected as a prosecutor, anyone who is elected as a judge, must do so in the most honorable way possible, to prove that he is worthy, to show his expertise and to show his competence. I want in the end that, expecting us to choose Zagorka Dolovac as a republican prosecutor, he does not do what is happening in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina these days, where one lynch, an attempt to kill the prime minister of a sovereign state, and I mean Mr. Alexander Vukic, has turned into a farce, where Bosnia and Herzegovina's prosecutor's office has made a good contribution to the lakordia. That kind of thing can't happen. Such things, first, will never be able to happen in Serbia, to lead to the prosecutor's reaction, but if God never gives up such a thing, Mrs. Zagorko Dolovac, you will have to react regardless of who did it. Whether it was done by Mr Martinovic, whether it was done by MP Dragan Nikolic or anyone from this hall, or someone from the government, you'll have to process it, you'll have to do your job and you won't have our support as much as you do otherwise. Expecting it to be so, knowing that we have this support on the other hand and someone who's been doing this job for six years and who now knows that he hasn't been chosen based on his political experience or thanks to his political belonging to a foreigner, although sometimes it's been going to some wedding, but now that something we've forgotten we're turning to the future. We want to believe that this is one of the days when there will be chosen people who are dry and strict professionals and who will know that they appreciate our MPs who have not been guided by political interests but have been guided by the interests of this country. That is why, as a parliamentary group in the voting day, we will give support to the government of the Republic of Serbia and to Mr Selakovic, who presented this proposal to us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32745	I thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32746	There is no doubt that Mrs. Dolovac is the best candidate of those who have applied for this function and this process has been completed in an adequate manner and there is no doubt there. That is why this will be one of the rare situations when the entire parliament will vote for one draft law either for a decision or for this election. Of course it is good if there is one political agreement at least about something in this Serbia. Mrs. Dolovac has been at this post for six years. From how far I could follow outside of politics and out of Parliament from the public, she was doing a job that was difficult, which was complicated, which was responsible. The public probably doesn't know that the lawyers know that she's practically the head of all the prosecutors in Serbia, that she can gain insight into any case of prosecution, that she can move and impose fines, ask, take over cases, and that's one very responsible function. I'm sure Mrs. Dolovac can give more than she's given in the first six years. I think it's a good chance for both her and the Serbian prosecutor's office and the prosecution and courts at all. Can we be satisfied with that area, absolutely not? In the last three years, absolutely not. Before that, absolutely not. There's a lot of reasons we can talk about for days. I think we agree on that, too. That's why I don't like to spend some time sharing that something is the first time in history, that something is the cornerstone, that something is the cornerstone of when everything's going to change. Regardless, I repeat once again, to the quality of the candidate, for whom my colleague Pavicevic and I will vote in the prosecutions and in the courts we cannot be satisfied. Twenty-four privatisations suspicious. There's probably 224 of them. Is one solved? No, it's not. Ninety homicides, homicides from the beginning of this millennium, have not been solved. The defeat is for both the police and the prosecution and the courts, which we have commissions composed of people who are not lawyers. On behalf of the state and on behalf of the Serbian government, these commissions are involved in murder investigations. That absolutely can't be proof of a good situation in an area. What are cases from the world of crime that have long burdened the Serbian public and we have not received answers, with many promises made by both this and the previous government and the one before it, this government, the previous Government of Ivica Dacic, is before that the government before the Government of Ivica Dacic. Nothing, or almost none of it was solved. We have a new case that is very important to the security of this country, to restore trust in the institutions, which is very important because of the way it happened and which is very important because of the consequences that have happened. I think it's safe for the newly elected prosecutor, as it is said - the prosecutor, I don't like to use male expressions for ladies, the first temptation, but the possibility of proving my claim that she can do more and better is to end the investigation of the helicopter's fall on May 13th of this year. Of course, it's not in her direct jurisdiction, but of course she has a subordination system to influence that, too. I hope there's no dispute between us here, when we're all here to get the D.A.'s office, and that's how much I remember the Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, to get their final judgment on that. One hundred thirty-one days today is the event that took place in a few hours. There are many facts about what happened and how it happened, many reports. I gave another report at the press conference today to the public on what was happening that night and it is certain that all the people in this country, and especially the families, friends of relatives, those people who died, have the right to get an answer as soon as possible to those questions, I think that's the first task for this prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32747	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32748	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, let me say immediately that I will not vote in favour of this proposal. I'm so thrilled with him that I almost want to give up the discussion, but I have no right to do that. After discussing my colleague's predecessor, it's clear to me. The wine case will give up, but with the alleged case, the helicopter will insist. Also, I must warn you that this is not a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is a proposal from the Council of Prosecutors, the State Council of Prosecutors, whose composition is, with slight changes, the same composition from 2009 and 2010, chosen by the former regime's party. Or later the prosecutors, the ones who were first appointed to choose this DVT and I think about, if anyone knows anything else, let them say, but I think about that proposal goes from there. I must warn you, the vice president of the former regime's party claimed this way a year ago in India -- while we have Zagorka Dolovac, they can't hurt us. I've heard a completely different story here, and I believe that her biography was worth reading, but I also believe that what is to be said in the people, I was also informed that in 10.5.2010, the lady we should choose, along with Special Prosecutor Radisavljevic, it is probably for organised crime and with the then minister of justice, who was a party chamber, went to a wedding with a state secretary who was also a state secretary, although not in relation to relatives, it was only possible to sing there – were the family of Democrats and so on. I don't know what it was about, except for the party, the lady mentioned to the secretary of state who belonged to the former regime's party, what it did to the justice minister who was also a member of the party of the former regime, if not the party. Just because we don't want to pick the staff out of our own party doesn't mean we won't have a party prosecutor's office. If we leave the other parties behind, we have the influence of the parties on the judiciary again, not from the authorities, but from the opposition, but it's not an extra-party, non-partisan, non-political prosecution, or the judiciary. I believe the lady worked hard, but in the good part of her term until 2012, the state didn't contain crime, it was crime that contained the state. I believe that at the top of the prosecution, the D.A.'s Office of War Crimes, there are a lot of party personnel, and the former Justice Minister has found the arrest of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office very easily and all this has happened before Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac's eyes. These are the reasons why I won't vote for the proposal that was tabled here, for Mrs. Dolovac, no matter how much it costs me, no matter how much she puts her lower on me. There is no price I will not pay to challenge this proposal, or at least not to vote for it, since the most objections our citizens have on the work of the prosecution in the period 2009 to 2012. I can't say that the situation hasn't improved slightly by changing authorities that can't significantly affect the prosecution's work, but it has created an ambience to improve the situation. I can't even say that she may not be a better fit in the future than she's ever been, but I am obliged to say and present what was and the impressions I've collected from the citizens and not just from the citizens. Therefore, this wedding and the general joy are indisputable immediately after the election and the appointment of all these people who have just been proposed since then by the Minister of Justice, the State Secretary, etc. And we know how that selection went. My obligation to the citizens, according to those who went barefoot in 2012, for us on the streets from rallying to rallying, not to vote for this proposal, I won't vote and repeat, there is no price I won't pay, because I know there won't be cases, like that case I took from October 5, 2000, when it's on my eyes, and also on the document of the report of the Third Army of 9.11.2000, in the City Assembly of Civilians, divided weapons, from Mother Jevrosima police station, where 25 automatic rifles were missing, 15 rifles, hundreds of guns and guns. These weapons were distributed to civilians, to be found in criminal clans, some of which said that the weapons were given to the 6th of the DOS leaders outside the City Assembly and that the weapons ended up in the Zemun and Surcin clan. After this election, I do not believe that this case will be prosecuted and that someone will question my fellow farmer about the case, and he denies any involvement in it, but it should check this document. Also, I don't believe in any other case when a helicopter and an army are already being mentioned. It is touching for me when he does so, given his involvement in the military and military service, therefore, another case should be investigated. The 1999 case, an international procurement of ammunition to Serbia's Army, where according to SSNO 14-116 since 21 August 2002, an attempted imports of ammunition for tanks where a million 250 thousand marks of then and $100,000 were raised from the Ju-guarant bank and a fellow farmer handed it over to a certain Russian in Dimitrovgrad, but no more weapons, or no more ammunition, and the money was missing. The imports are well known, it even said "Time", but did not appoint individuals who participated in ammunition smuggling for tanks in 1999. I am now asking the Minister of Justice, with this election of the prosecution, along with the family ties and party ties he has on the prosecution, will this case be prosecuted? I have nothing against the lady personally, there is nothing against Dragan Draskovic who is protected and has 2.5 billion euros a year of public procurement without a financial plan and public procurement plan at the Clinical and Hospital Centre of Vojvodina, I have nothing against what that certain gentleman has set up, without sufficient qualifications Vesna Pajčić Bolidovski as Head of the Emergency Centre. So, I don't mind those combinations. Of course, as a citizen, I have nothing against myself, I did not participate in them, but I am obliged as a representative of the citizens to make these remarks that the citizens had during this period on the work of the prosecution and these are the reasons why, although I have nothing against the lady personally, I will not vote for this proposal, and I have even come to give up the discussion, but then the citizens would not know the reason for my resignation from this proposal. I believe we have to have a republican prosecutor, but I also believe that we could have had a better one and that we could have made a judiciary that would not only share justice, but determine the truth of what happened in the trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32749	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Mr. Zivkovic, on what grounds? I see that you reacted and that you applied at the moment when it was about the Russian, the money and everything else, and I didn't recognize there in any way that you had the opportunity for a replica, but if you recognized yourself... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Yes. I just apologize to the MPs, and I feel guilty for letting you talk out of the agenda and then I had to let Mr. Rističević stop it. (Gordana Comić, from the place: My turn. Ma'am, the D.S. is mentioned, you have the right to a replica, but before that, Mr. Zivkovic. (Gordana Comić, from the place: My turn. ) You'll be on the agenda. (Gordana Comić, from the place: I won't because it's nobody, so neither will I. ) Mrs. Komic, I only apologize for the first solution with Mr. Zivkovic. You, Mr. Zivkovic, claim to have identified yourself and that you have a basis for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32750	Of course, that hermetic speech of the predecessor is easy to understand and one untruth about the division of weapons was repeated on October 5th in the City Assembly, where I allegedly shared that weapon with criminals. First, of course, it doesn't matter, it's a complete lie, but let's think a little bit and logically, why would someone hand out guns to criminals? Well, they usually have guns. You may be handing out weapons to kindergarten teachers, but criminals, of course, have guns and no part of DOS needs to share anything. Secondly, he said he saw it personally after he didn't report it, it exists, the minister can advise him on responsibility, someone who witnessed the crime he had to do, and then there's another thing about some million and some marks, as far as I understand from the Ju-guarant bank that I was carrying in Dimitrovgrad to some Russian in 1999, I don't know what day to get ammunition for tanks. I'd really like to see that mind that can come up with such a galathium. Why would someone who was mayor of Nis at that time buy ammunition for tanks? Why would someone who was then declared a traitor of the ruling regime go to buy any ammunition on behalf of the army of that regime? Why else would the Russians go to Dimitrovgrad? The Russians are here whenever you want, you can pay them whenever you want and wherever you want, as they've already done, as they've been given the DIS, for example. So, I ask you for, not for me, of course, people know what I've been doing and there's no doubt about it, but because of the dignity of this Parliament that sometimes you stop people from saying things that are illogical on any basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32751	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. I already said I felt guilty because I didn't, I let you speak out of the agenda, then I had to let Mr. Risticevic, apologise, I don't understand these criminal acts so I can't recognize anyone and interpret anything about it and then prevent contracts from being mentioned. Excuse me, Mr. Risticevic. What's your answer? (Marian Risticevic, from town: Replica. ) Replica, it is that Mr. Zivkovic spoke and interpreted your speech, but please, if I gave Mr. Zivkovic, you have the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32752	Mr. Chairman, I agree with you that I have the same rights to a replica as the previous speaker has. So neither did I mention his name, I was talking about a fellow farmer. If he recognized himself in all those criminal acts, it's not my fault, but there are several suggestions that of course I didn't report a case of gun-sharing in the City Assembly, I didn't report it, but he reported Bagzi to the trial for the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic. His statement came in as a statement condemning him, fortunately dried, the Zemunski and Surcinski clan. At the trial, the man described literally how the weapons came from and where the criminal clans came from, and part of the weapon was found by Mr. Dacic when he was interior minister and during the rule of the party of the former regime, so nothing is disputed. As far as this involvement in ammunition procurement is concerned, no ammunition has been obtained. The money's gone, the ammunition hasn't arrived. So the money was handed over from the Ju-guarant bank, a million 250 thousand marks and 100,000 US dollars. I'll tell you why the ammunition was the reason, because they had enough tanks, but we didn't get enough ammunition out of the stock, battle kits, so it was assumed that there was going to be a NATO pact attack and a certain firm offered to get that ammunition, and it was passed down by a colleague I was talking about, my fellow farmer, and that money was reportedly handed over to Dimitrovgrad, a security report from the SSNO 14-116 since 21 August 2002. I ask for this to be checked to clear off possibly our colleague, anyone who participated, to check these listed SSNOs and to check also listed related to October 5th and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32753	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I couldn't react because you had a replica of Mr. Zivkovic's exposure, and I already said I don't understand in that crime. Here you go, Vladimir Pavicevic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32754	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Becic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, I believe that the members of the 106th and 107th Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have just been injured. Member of the 106th Honored Mr Becic is concerned with a speech by an MP who does not speak on the agenda point, and Article 107, even more, Mr Becic, concerns the dignity of the National Assembly. I need to tell you that we have an election debate on the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32755	Mr Pavicevic, please, if we respect the Rules of Procedure, please know very well that I have now and stressed that I was unable to respond to Mr Rističević's speech because he had a replica of Mr Zivkovic's exposure, as Mr Zivkovic had a replica of Mr Rističević's exposure because they were identified there, so that I, as chairman, could not direct them to the agenda because the replica you know how and in what conditions he is given and for what purpose he serves. So, don't accuse me of being chaired that I haven't affected the words spoken or spoken in those speeches. So, please, you can just talk to me and distract me that I may not be in the speech, in Mr. Zivkovic's first speech and Mr. Rističević's reaction, but then you were late to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It has to be done when it's done directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32756	No, right now. Here's how...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32757	Well, I couldn't react, because it's a replica, so thank you, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32758	But in his speech, Mr. Zivkovic made an argument that we would vote for the candidate and talk about the agenda point, unlike the two speeches of the gentleman who spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32759	Mr. Pavicevic, you must be honest. So, Mr. Zivkovic said a lot in five minutes, and much had nothing to do with today's agenda and a proposal for Mrs. Dolovac to be the prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and her election as Republic Public Prosecutor. So please, you didn't react then, you didn't point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have now indicated after Mr. Risticevic's replica. You know very well that the presidents can't affect replicas and spoken in replicas, what you can say to each other. So thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: It is necessary. I thank you. The word has the People's MP, Mrs. Comic, just because you had the chance to replicate, you don't want to, but you want to talk about the agenda? Is that right? (Yes) Mrs. Comić, on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32760	Thank you. If there was anyone to replicate, I'd be looking for a replica, but there isn't, because replication can be something that makes sense, and here, unfortunately, it wasn't the case. Zagorka Dolovac's election, for many good reasons I will vote for Zagorka Dolovac's election. One of the reasons is that we've been given a commission's report on how to choose, and if there's some first time in our country, this is one of those first paths, in the plural, when something really happens the first time. The content of most of the speeches here came down to a description of one context to which I will comment before explaining my voice for Zagorka Dolovac, because there is no text without context. Here it was said that by the grace of the rulers had resolved to be attached to the rule of law. That's the tone of the message. It's perfectly natural for this phase of foundation of the rule of law. The problem is that while we are exchanging that the mercy of the authorities is to be attached to the rule of law, which provides for a procedure for the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, and when I say this, in this context I do not choose a minister, it is the first good news I will repeat when I explain my vote for Zagorka Dolovac. So, when we still don't understand that the government isn't asking questions about procedures and provisions in the rule of law, it also applies that there's no mercy to apply, no mercy not to apply. In countries like ours, but with a less burdensome past and heritage, there was also a phase when we didn't understand what it meant to be a government and a ruler, and what it means to be attached to the rule of law. Unfortunately, in countries that pass the accession and accession steps of the EU, you have such cases and differences between us who are lagging behind in the full construction of the rule of law and they are total, rudely speaking, the percentage when everyone has the knowledge that no one is asking about the rule of law, that the choice of the Republic Public Prosecutor, as well as anything else, applies as it is written. It's the essence of the rule of law, you apply the laws literally as it says. It sounds simple, and to achieve is immeasurably complicated. Why is it good to support the choice of Zagorka Dolovac? I also had hope that she would be one of the republican public prosecutors who would have a unanimous choice in the National Assembly. It's also a context. It's very difficult to achieve. For this reason, there are conditions, special, in the constitutions or in the laws, that two-thirds of the majority are elected persons in whom they must be trusted to be attached exclusively to the rule of law, such as in some countries, i.e. the Protector of Citizens, or special persons who have their status as guarantor of the rule of law in our society. We still consider it a good political will to stick to the rule of law. It's neither a criticism nor a positive remark. It's a description of the state of the context and we're going to have a lot of problems about it. The good news is that societies themselves can give up, that they are not making a circus with themselves about what the rule of law is and that we understand that the EU, the integrations that we are all committed to, hopefully, in this room, that the change in our system is taking place by building a rule of law by all being attached to it, not to the mercy or the absence of the mercy of the rulers who think that it is above the rule of law. So there's no confusion, when I say ruler, I don't mean anyone here personally. If I did, I'd say a name and a last name. I have no obstacles to the appointment. I don't think so. I think of the position of the rulers in various sectors of society, and if that is interesting, we can speak the entire list of persons who consider themselves because of the position of social and institutional power they are in, that they can violate the powers they are entrusted with to work both in the general interest and in the rule of law. All I've shared with you as my picture of the context is also the reason why I'm going to vote for Zagorka Dolovac, because by my work, and according to both the report and the committee, the minister has shown that he understands the context in which he was or, I hope, he will be on the duty of the Republic Public Prosecutor and for the next six years. And that's one of the first paths. It rarely happens that in countries that have changed so radically as Serbia has changed in the last 15 years, such a function as to allow a candidate to earn a proposal for a re-election. I know, and I could argue, listening to her reports and her work in the years that preceded today's election, that she knows it's not just her merit, but to a whole team of people who worked both in the republican prosecution, and in senior prosecutors and in five large prosecutors and in a special one. So there's a large group of people who are committed to the rule of law, and all together it's supposed to be good news for us. Three candidates who were the subject of the score list are Zagorka Dolovac, Ivan Markovic and Aleksandar Mladenovic and Zagorka Dolovac, and because of the most points she received due to the evaluation of the organisation's programme and the improvement of the work of the public prosecutor's office and what she wants to advance in our work is completely evident as a part of the process, and in part only witnesses, therefore, the fight against organised crime, the fight against terrorism, the fight against corruption, human trafficking, all of what are some sort of contemporary crimes of great risk to people's safety in the 21st century. The second part is the efficiency of the prosecution's investigations. It is the same one of the first roads and the decision to introduce a prosecutorial investigation in Serbia was controversial, it was with many reasons for and against, it was with many people who were in favour, so now they are against when the even greater number of those who were against it, so they are now committed to the prosecution's investigation. A model has been found somewhere between what is Anglo-Saxon and European models and it will take a lot of work to be invested by the Republic Public Prosecutor to really start working, as well as the new solutions that we have had, such as the Agreement to confess to guilt or some kind of new punishment that the prosecutor has the right to propose to the defendant in special cases. Of course, international co-operation and co-operation with EU institutions in the process of European integration is good news that there are also good assessments and the work of many in the prosecution and the work of many in the judiciary, which are not seen in our public, because we are prone, with many rights, not slow to judge that the situation in the judiciary is bad, that nothing is right. However, when you look at objective reports, the minister of justice knows this, you have courts and areas where things have started, where you really have the kind of justice we want to see that we have in all of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but we don't have it yet. It's the nature of things. Its proposals to invest in the prosecution's human and technical capacities, to co-operate with EU funds and international organisations, which help and enable it, are also one of the reasons for the vote "yes". The introduction of a system of disciplinary measures, penalties, a system of determination, I wish we'd heard about the system of rewards. It's not common, but it's not forbidden by law. I think it's good that in the prosecution, as well as in the Ministry of Justice, it's a simple process to have special awards in collaboration with the Ministry of Justice. It's not money, it's not medals, it's nothing, it's starting, because some people have results at work that are often such that they can't pay off, that their name is heard, and the reasons why they're the best in one of their sectors or something that's their direct jurisdiction. What was given with the first part of the Republic Prosecutor's plan, relating to the confiscation of property, is also one controversial institute that was introduced, criticised, challenged, with less or more successes applied, but necessary, has proved to be in the countries with which we tried to adapt that model to produce results. If you find that someone who has a suspicion of organised crime has property, real estate, movable things that have no tax proof, then this institute is at work and it has nothing to do with any found guilt at the end. What is my special interest is its commitment to combating discrimination from the position of the Republic Public Prosecutor and protecting against violence of every kind, and of course against domestic violence. I would like, for the next six years, after the second term of Zagorka Dolovac, to have the satisfaction together in its report, to follow the result, the joint result, and those in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and all of us who participated, regardless of whether, as the Commission, who directly worked as the Government, who accepted the Commission's proposal and as we, the MPs, who with seriousness and attention follow the choice in such places. We will still be able to choose people in exceptional positions for our social changes, for what we need as a society to change our attitude towards what we all care about, which is to be equal in front of the law, to treat ourselves equally before the law, and to have a sense of legal certainty. That is why the good news is that Zagorka Dolovac, by all objective parameters, deserves to be proposed for the second term. With pleasure, I'll give her my voice this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32761	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a colleague from the former regime, has tried, however unfailingly, that by alluding to the ruler in fact, it is a matter of the goodwill of Alexander Vukic, I think it is clear to all the MPs. What I can say, as an authorised representative of the SNS, is that Serbia is not a monarchy but a republic and has no rulers but has a president of the Republic, that is, when it comes to the government has a Prime Minister. What's normal today, in 2015, is normal today, but it wasn't normal, for example. In 2009, it wasn't normal in 2000. Then why didn't you apply the same principle that applies the SNS today? Why didn't you say then – the basic principle of rule is the right, among other things, to allow a man to remain in office if his job worked in a safe, fair manner, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. In 2000, you asked no one if he was working according to the law or not, but cleaned people up with a broom. That's what you did in 2009. Now I ask you, you are still in power today in Vojvodina, tell me a public official in the territory of the AP Vojvodina who is not either a member of the DS or, what would Comrade Lenin say to thousands or related to DS? Give me one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32763	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32764	I'm done. We have established something that has not existed in Serbia since 2000, which is – we have made it possible for people chosen at a time when the SNS was not in power to remain in their posts. Here, Zagorka Dolovac is chosen for the second time, but you didn't do it and you're the last one, I don't mean you personally, but DS is the last one we need to teach the rule of law lessons.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32765	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32766	Thank you. When and if I want to say criticism or praise to Alexander Vukic, I will say it loud and clear. You have absolutely no concern about interpreting my words when I say that there is no rule of law in this country and that it is ruled by the mercy of the rulers. If we'd all listened more carefully, I said it doesn't apply to any name, because those rulers we find on government counters, we find them in institutions that are supposed to serve citizens, we find them in different places where, by being paid out of the budget, they have the authority to rule by what they write, or the rule of law, but that doesn't happen. It's a common problem. When and if Alexander Vukic shows, when it comes to the Republic Public Prosecutor, the gesture and attitude that I consider inappropriate, that's what I'm going to say. When and if Alexander Vukic, by my judgment, crosses a line called the rule of law, I will tell him that and I told him that. He's better off when I'm criticizing him than when other people here defend him, but it's gonna be a long time before we all understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32767	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Martinovic, the replica, you have the right to mention the party president, but I think we should bring this to an end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32768	He did not give dear God to Alexander Vukic to defend him by Gordana Komic and to defend him by DS. As it seems in practice, we've seen it since 2000. For example, I know one, when we already mention the ruler, who has been ruling in Vojvodina since 2004, first as the President of the Executive Council of Vojvodina, and then, since the adoption of the Statute, as president of the province government, who imagined that he should remain a political master of life and death in Vojvodina for life. I don't know if, Mrs. Comic, since you say you're in favour of women's rights, of gender discrimination, etc., I deeply respect that, I don't know if you know the case of Miss Jelena Vivod, who competed in 2012 in the competition of the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development. She won, that is, in the contest she met all the intended conditions, and the scholarship agreement with her wasn't signed, you know why? She was told by the chief of cabinets of the ruler Bojan Pajtic, because she refused to come to a public photo shoot with Prime Minister Bojan Pajtic at the signing of the contract. So, Miss Wivod said -- if I've met the conditions, if I have to get that scholarship, why is it necessary to sign the contract in front of TV cameras? That was in 2012. Well, how come you didn't show a little birth sensitivity then, how come you didn't show a little sense that someone simply didn't want to be brought into any political context? It is now we who allegedly rule the mercy of some ruler, although I repeat, Serbia is not a monarchy, but is a republic. However, Vojvodina is slowly becoming a empire, but we hope it will take a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32769	I thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Mrs. Comic, do you want a replica? Yeah. ) The Democratic Party and party president Mr Pajtic are mentioned, but you are not an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, nor is the president or deputy president of the parliamentary group to have the right to do so. But at one point, I didn't really hear, but I was informed by the secretary that your name was mentioned, so by that basis you have. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32770	Thank you. I love it when I say, in exchange for arguments, it is better for Alexander that I attack him than for many to defend him here, and then we get proof sounding in the hall. And yesterday I told you, our misunderstanding is banal, but deep. Nothing in that misunderstanding is difficult to resolve. Everything we don't understand is written about. All we have to do is read. When you're read and you want to talk, then you need to think, because you're master of your thoughts, and you're a servant in words. This is often happening here, that I am talking about something that should be a common position, if we are for European integration, which is to rule by the rule of law, not by the mercy of the rulers, and what I do not say is heard. I don't have any problem with my attitudes, but they have many who don't read enough, and they talk without thinking enough before that. I thank you for the opportunity to clarify such banal misunderstandings, with the hope that we will all vote together for Zagorka Dolovac. That'd be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32771	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, would you like a word? Yeah. You have a word based on the mention of the party president, a two-minute replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32772	I thank you, Mr. Becic. Here, I admit that I am not as well-read as a Member of the former regime and I admit that I am not at that intellectual level as she is, but what I cannot understand is that the practice applied by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and which, in the end, we, too, are demonstrated by the MPs of the SNS, is not applied when it comes to the AP Vojvodina. How is it that at the level of the Republic of Serbia it is normal for responsible state functions to choose people who are not members of the SNS, but it is not normal when it comes to the AP Vojvodina? What we don't understand or where you pretend not to understand what we're trying to say is next. You lynched people on October 5, 2000. The RTS director was lynched by the mob, 50 people beat him in the same swing. Ask National Assembly Secretary General Jan Ljubicic, as her father, Aleksandar Ljubicic, a journalist of RTS, passed, just because, in the opinion of the previous DOS rulers, he did not meet the criteria of moral political similarities. Ask the judges, ask the public prosecutors, ask the civil servants, ask people around the municipalities, ask people where you formed the crisis headquarters, ask people where you broke in with automatic rifles, ask those who were taking guns and helicopters from a police station on the street on November 29th, etc. I know what you want to do now. It has been many years since 5 October, some new generations have come and who will remember what happened in October 2000. But we don't let Serbia forget what happened in 2000. We show on our case how Serbia should rule. Not by lynching political inexperiences, not by leaving someone without a job just because he is not a member of the ruling party, but because we will give him a hand and tell him – let's go, if you have knowledge, energy and will, join the team led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, to get Serbia out of the mud you've got her in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32773	Mr. Martinovic, thank you. The word has the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister Selakovic, Mr. Becic, thank you for this one more time. I see that these observations of my performances in the congregation have a lasting effect on both your actions and your observations regarding...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32775	I'm sorry, Mr. Pavicevic, but I'm still under the impression of your absence and the signing of the agreement as a representative of the university, and then my thought went away, Professor, so I apologize one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32776	Of course, this is an affirmative remark and on my part, let me say, Mr. Becic. Thank you for reminding you of the signing of this agreement, which Mr. Babic does not treat the same way as you do, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32777	Please, just get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32778	I'm going to focus now on what's our agenda point right now. Minister Selakovic told us in an introductory address from the biography of the candidate for the republican public prosecutor. I think, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and respected Minister Selakovic, that the debate on the election of a republican public prosecutor is always an opportunity when such a debate is being held to remind ourselves how important a republican public prosecutor is in our constitutional system. The actions of the republican public prosecutor, gentlemen, are necessary to be entrenched, always covered by those ideals concerning the jurisdiction of the public prosecutor's office and the jurisdiction of the republic's public prosecutor. That is why, I think, it is necessary for all of us here to remind ourselves of these great ideals, to remind each other here, because we choose a republican public prosecutor, to remind the citizens that they know who we choose, but, respected Minister Selakovic, to remind or to mention once again what it is that she should do when she is elected and what ideals in her actions we expect to be absolutely visible. I think this is an opportunity to focus on those ideals. First, in Article 156. The Constitution, to remind the MPs here, because it seems to me at least in one part of our debate today that there is misunderstanding and ignorance about it, is said to be a public prosecutor's office that prosecutes perpetrators of criminal and other criminal acts and takes measures to protect constitutionality and legality. Mrs. Dolovac knows that, but it's not a waste, I mean, this opportunity and this debate, once again, and her and myself here to remind ourselves of that. In Article 157 of our Constitution, gentlemen, it says – the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office is the most prosecutorial office in the Republic of Serbia. Since I have noticed that some MPs, I am sorry to say, and it concerns some SNS MPs, they do not know who is proposing a candidate, and then they are talking about some other proposings, to say that the republican public prosecutor, respected gentlemen, has been elected by the National Assembly's committee, according to the government's proposal, to be elected by the National Assembly. I must here, dear Minister Selakovic and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, remind us all of a member of the Public Prosecutor's Law, which better than any previous word, I think, directs all of us who are participating in the debate today to these ideals and these qualities, the qualities of a person who will be a republican public prosecutor. In Article 10a of the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, it is said – the public prosecutor is obliged, gentlemen, to carry out his duties without undue delay, professionally, securely, impartially, fairly and without undue delay. Dear gentlemen, that is these five words, therefore, expertise, security, impartiality, justice, and, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, efficiency. These are great ideals, great virtues, but I must say here, and the basic criteria on the basis of which we should choose a republican public prosecutor, but on the basis of which we, the respected Minister Selakovic, will measure the actions of the person who will be elected as a republican public prosecutor, because the National Assembly, as it chooses, on a proposal from the Government, can also relieve the same person of his duties unless he adheres to these great principles and ideals. I think it was worth it, Minister Selakovic, to remind ourselves of these ideals, in this debate, of this item on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32779	Time. Thank you. Does anyone else on the list want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The floor is based on the president of the DS parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32780	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac is a great prosecutor. Her résumé is impressive. She's been through all the cases in the D.A.'s office. Mrs. Dolovac is someone whose professionalism and knowledge really has nothing to resent. She was a woman who came at a difficult time to this responsible function, introduced some very positive things, introduced some principles, rules, introduced an evaluation, introduced criteria that absolutely did not exist until then. That's a lot to say by my colleague Komic. Mrs. Dolovac is a woman who is not a member of any party. She was never a member of any party. I am also surprised by some statements by colleagues from across the street that, while we were in power, we chose, or did not, replace those you chose and so on. I deeply disagree with that view, because you specifically thought of Sasha Jankovic, who was unanimously elected to this assembly on your proposal, and you can't change prosecutors, even if you wanted to, because you're not in charge of it under the law. So that's what the fact is. Of course, you can politically make all the decisions and in some strange way carry them out, and it doesn't surprise anyone anymore. In fact, I've dealt with a little bit of the elements of our common political past. On the site of your distinguished SNS party, I found an interview by Mr. Vukic, from 2010,
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32781	Mr. Stefanovic, please, I don't just see what this has to do with the subject and the choice of a republican public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32782	Yeah, she's with Mrs. Dolovac. So, Mrs. Dolovac, as a person, is here in front of us and her biography, Mr. Chairman, is ahead of us, and in that sense, as MPs who choose Mrs. Dolovac, we have the right to make certain comments, and these comments were made by Mr. Vukic in 2010. So, Mr. Vukic then said: “I don’t know, and it occurs to me to talk about them and their incomes, but I know that Zagorka Dolovac has huge incomes as a functional DS, but chosen by DS, over 200,000 dinars, imagine, and only because she is a party official and party hearer. ” End of quote, Alexander Vukic in 2010. This is what's on the site today. The first question that is being asked rhetorically is, how did you come to this woman, which your leader so negatively paints in black tones, today is where you choose and speak best of her today? That's the first rhetorical question. And that's what one shy answer is, that you probably couldn't find an adequate replacement between your many new frames. The third thing that's hiding in that is that it's eating you from the inside and it's deeply annoying, but there's nothing we can do about it. It's very interesting that you're talking about someone being beaten, burned, kidnapped, used guns, guns, rifles, rifles, etc., and on the other hand, you're not saying that in 1997 your former party got one-third of the judges in the division, two-thirds got an SPS. You forgot that. You also forgot that the lady who is here never shows up in public in Serbia. I'm really not going to say anything wrong about her professionalism and work, and there's no reason, but I have to say that this woman in public doesn't exist. There is no European state where the Supreme Prosecutor does not exist in public. She appeared once in public, brutally silenced Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. At that moment, it seems she deserved re-election as a state prosecutor. In three years we haven't heard a word about Mrs. Dolovac, not a word. Earlier, an inspired colleague spoke of what the state prosecutor is -- the top of the pyramid of the state government, the sword of Serbian citizens, the persecution of the perpetrators of crimes, but also the top of the prosecutor's pyramid, the controller, the coordinator, the nominal, formal, the legal head of all prosecutors of the Republic of Serbia. In three years your authority, gentlemen, the drawers of our prosecutions are full of criminal charges that no one is responding to alive. That's what I was talking about. It's about applications against your members. In three years, no significant action has been initiated against anyone in your power. No investigation has been carried out against members of your regime and your friends. It has not been established why some of your tycoons have 20-30 companies, who are involved in importing and exporting, who are responsible for the day-to-day drying duration of Tamnava, who was involved in importing televisions, who were exporting...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32783	Mr. Stefanovic, please return to the topic and speak of the election of the Republic's public prosecutor, Mrs. Dolovac. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: It is all about the choice of prosecutors. I will not allow you in such a way as to challenge replicas and speak in the National Assembly. (Borislav Stefanovic, now: Why did you turn off my microphone? Because I won't let you speak out of the agenda. Let me be intolerant, may I choke your democratic commitment and your vote, but I will not allow you to speak outside the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly of things that have nothing to do with the selection of the Republic's public prosecutor, Mrs Dolovac. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Will you give me back my time? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32784	I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, to apply the rules equally to that side. So, since we're choosing a republican public prosecutor today, which I don't think this Assembly should be doing, as I don't think we should be choosing judges, as I think the structure of public prosecutors in Serbia shouldn't stay the way it is today, I'd like to hear from Mrs. Dolovac whether or not there would be any change in that system, but I won't be able to hear it because she's not here. Minister Selakovic could say something about this, I am sure he has a certain position, we have already discussed this in this assembly, the municipal public prosecutor's office, in my opinion, should be exempt from the structure of a single hierarchically formed and single prosecutor's office. That's one of the suggestions you're going to ignore. The fact is, there's also been a lot of talk here about criminal activity. We had amateur prosecutors back on this side that you didn't react to. We had another...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32785	Mr. Stefanovic, when you walk into the National Assembly Hall for a few minutes, you can't comment on what happened, especially to people who sit here all day, 10 hours, you can't comment on whether anyone has one archaic on the one hand, on the other hand, if anyone was accusing anyone. You can do that when you sit in this room, like the other MPs, all day and then you can comment on the speeches of the MPs. Now that you walk in for a few moments into this large hall of the National Assembly, as my distinguished colleague Mr. Pavicevic likes to say, you cannot comment on the presentation of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32786	Mr. Chairman, I don't want to lead the controversy with you. I respect the function you perform. You are in no way qualified to comment on my rights and what I can or cannot do as a MP, unless I violate the Rules of Procedure. Since absolutely all the time, twice you've interrupted me, I'm talking about a future public prosecutor, and the current public prosecutor, and things about her work, I haven't given up on the subject for a moment. But I can't convince you because you believe that I am. It is especially inappropriate for you to comment on who is walking or walking or not. You're not qualified for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32787	Mr Stefanovic, I have been elected by the MPs to chair this session today and have given me that opportunity. I am certainly qualified to respect the Rules of Procedure, to interpret the Rules of Procedure, and not to let you insult the other MPs in this way. It is my right and duty as chairman. Mr. Markovic, as it is your duty to respect the Rules of Procedure, not to throw it out of place, because I'm going to have to warn you, and I wouldn't be happy to do it right now. I will do only to the extreme, if you continue to throw, as you constantly do by throwing yourself out of place and breaking the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Stefanovic, do you want to continue? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32788	Mr. Chairman, I would really like to ask you to let me finish my speech...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32789	I would allow it, but your colleague Markovic throws it away and won't let you finish. But, again, it's electricity within your parliamentary group. Mr. Markovic, please stop throwing. Here, Mr. Stefanovic reminds me that he cannot complete the exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32790	Mr. Becic, you're interrupting me all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32791	Mr. Markovic, you're throwing again. You do not allow Mr Stefanovic to continue the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32792	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32793	Mr. Markovic has been silent for a minute and a half, and you talk all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32794	Would you allow me, politely, to interrupt the extraordinary activities of the Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32795	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32796	So, next thing you know, it's a question. I remind the honourable MPs here how many angers, noises and criticisms there have been over poorly implemented judicial reform? At that moment, everyone spoke the name of then-President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, Judge Nate Mesarovic. No one mentioned the president of the Supreme Council of the D.A.'s office, Mrs. Zagorko Dolovac. Why don't you attack now because of the poor judicial reform of Mrs. Dolovac, and you attacked Nata Mesarovic? That's the thing that's being asked as a question. The people in the D.A. say -- if we're all guilty, both of the facts within the justice system, how is it possible to talk about only one thing and not the other? The third question, what is the most important question, Mr Selakovic, to which you may be able to answer, I would like to hear what concrete steps will be taken to ensure that certain crimes in Serbia, which most destroy our society, certain criminal acts, those most serious crimes, acts concerning both corruption and crime in the economy and the serious murders and drug dealings and everything else, why have, by one hand, been constantly happening to us lately, as a practice, which I am sure that you condemn, that the Court of Appeals are being tried and people are being released on the loose? Is this the result of a misdemeanor, pre-criminal, investigative procedure, or is it perhaps the result of ill-prosecuted charges? And what is the responsibility of the prosecution in that and whose responsibility is that? This practice is unacceptable. What will be done in the future to break this practice? That's the basic and most important question. Let's hear the voice of the Serbian prosecutor's office that protects us from the monsters of criminal activity. Let us hear concrete steps that will be taken not to come to this. That Serbian citizens do not think whether thieves and secises, import-export owners, winners of the tender, will constantly go unpunished in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32797	Mr. Stefanovic, as you can see, whenever you're talking about the subject, I'm not interrupting you. The moment you start breaking the Rules of Procedure and speaking out of the question, commenting on cases, not talking about Mrs. Dolovac's election and the reasons why you should support or not support that proposal, I have to interrupt you, since I have reported a lot of MPs who believe you are violating the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to continue? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32798	I have nothing more to say about the subject itself. I think I've asked enough questions. But I have to say as one comment, really collegiate. I don't think it's a good way to run the sessions when the opposition speaks. That's what we've said many times. I'm sorry, you can't take one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32799	Mr. Stefanovic, the opposition was very pleased, before you showed up, with this session, the way they get and the right to talk about the agenda. I've never interrupted anyone before. You're the only MP I've been interrupting all day. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Will you allow me a sentence? So imagine, if I didn't interrupt, say, Mr. Zivkovic, Mr. Pavicevic, other MPs, imagine why I'm just interrupting you? And they are representatives of the opposition and spoke today in this debate. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Will you allow me a sentence? Here, you can go ahead, if you want to say something about me, to criticize, you can go ahead, you have unlimited time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32800	First, let me tell you, Mr. Chairman, because of the way you're holding the session, I'm proud that you're interrupting me. This absolutely proves not only that I'm right, but it proves that the notorical fact that the citizens of Serbia are increasingly seeing, that it won't last long for yours either, and that when one day goes by, you will be deeply ashamed of your actions and everything you do. Woe to the one whom Mr. Becic commends in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32801	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. I'm proud of my 18 years in the National Assembly. Please, the word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, as president of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32802	In a difficult day for the Serbian Progressive Party, in February 2014, this assembly majority and the SNS proposed, adopted and voted to abolish immunity then to the MP Dragan Tomic, the suspect and charged against whom the indictment was brought, and I am proud that we have thus shown that there is no protection in the fight against crime and corruption, as we have shown and proved our commitment to the rule of law and the rule of law and that there are no protected in the fight against crime and corruption. I'd also like to see any example by 2012 that the former regime acted that way. Yes, there were examples only when Bojan Pajtic dealt with Goran Knezevic, and he was held in custody by God for 14 months on justice. But that's why I'm going to tell you the way prosecutors were elected by the Democratic Party. I will show you a document signed by the chairman of the Democratic Party's municipal board, and besides the president of the municipality of one place in southern Serbia. What does the president of the municipal board have to do with the president of the municipal council? But that's why they're standing under these lines that they've instructed and shown who needs to make progress and who can't move forward in performing the prosecutor's office. So they said the name and last name, I don't want to talk. They say – honest, valuable, on the part of the observed unsumptive, professional, experienced and now we come to the finals – the long-standing sympathiser of the Democratic Party, rejected all criminal charges against the officials of the Democratic Party municipal committee, the son of a member, deserves attention, a chance to advance, interested in the post of deputy prosecutor or senior prosecutor. So, to drop all charges against the Democratic Party municipal board, and at the same time you're making progress. At the same time, it was in every municipality, in every city in the Republic of Serbia, directed by the Democratic Party and the former regime, both in India and in Vlasotin. And now they're talking about some full case in the D.A.'s office. Excuse me, in a special court for organized crime in 2012, we found three counts in 2012 with three fingers of dust over the three indictments. In a year 157 charged and confirmed charges only because we said – people do according to the law, regardless of whose membership card it was, what familiarity, how many millions we had or didn't have. You're doing your job. That's the way to justice. It's a path to a country of order. It is the path that this state of Serbia is walking under the leadership of SNS and Alexander Vukic. It's a path we haven't been on, unlike this time, where progress in the prosecutor's office could only be if your son is a member of the Democratic Party, and you've dropped all charges related to the Democratic Party's municipal board.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32803	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32804	As our people say - it happened, it didn't happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32805	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a replica of Mr Babic's presentation, for mentioning the Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32806	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we go back to that old example all the time. I want you to, as never before, you know that yourself, not to defend those bad moves from the past, but this particular example is very indicative, repeatedly mentioned here in this assembly. It is a person who is not in the Democratic Party long ago, who is today, who is in the coalition with you, in the same municipality. So, this man you keep mentioning, your coalition partner today in that community. Well, it's not just about that, and you know what you guys do in different municipalities, so it's about crying...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32807	Please, please, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32808	It's not an argument, you understand. I think that as citizens, it is of interest for us all as representatives of the citizens to put the judiciary in order, to depart fully, that we all want maximum application and respect for the law of the rule of law. That's what we all stand for. The problem is, unfortunately, there is still no such thing in Serbia. It doesn't exist yet. I remember very well, that's exactly what was promised three years ago on the wings of your victory. There have been promises of deep changes in that segment. There's no change except for the declarative term change, the change in the future that you're using all the time. You're masters of futurnal politics. You're masters of the grammatical performances of your changes, which are only grammatical. They're not life-saving. That can't cloud the story of what you've been doing. You do what they do, let them pay whatever price they need to pay both political and moral and criminal. I don't mind. I absolutely don't mind, and I won't prove it to anyone else here. That's when I told you about Tomic, Mr. Granny, and I'm done. It's okay that we removed the immunity. You remember. The problem was that it was possible for the man who was sitting with him at that bank, Djelitovic, nothing happened to him. That's what I asked you. I keep asking you that, you can't answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32809	Mr. Stefanovic, it is not right to mention people who cannot defend themselves, so in this case Mr. Dzelitovic, it is an honor. Mr. Babic, you have the right to replication for mentioning your name and name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32810	It doesn't matter where someone's been or where someone's been. It's a matter of principle. It's the way. It's about the system of values. No paper like this can ever come from any member of the SNS. None of the SNS officials, because this is an insult to the state, insulting the judiciary as an independent branch of government. And it's not just a joke and it's not just an opportunity for a public prosecutor in a small town in southern Serbia. There are hundreds of cases like this. Here's your next example, the truth not for the prosecutor, but for the judge. In order for the judge to become or survive at the judge's post or progress, he had to have the following characteristics: a sympathiser, that's very important, a member of the Democratic Party's wife, at the same time fair, valuable, on the part of the unsuspected, it's also a copy of the fist for this prosecutor, ten years back providing all legal assistance to the Democratic Party. Imagine it's an independent judiciary. Imagine, how would this person judge or press charges against a member of the Democratic Party or a member of the Democratic Party, if he had given him all the legal help he needed? Then how is he going to be independent? Probably the best in court, ambitious, of course, as soon as he provides all legal assistance, ambitious, deserves to progress, interested in an appeal judge in Nis and at the same time the big bold letters undeniable. Now, that's an independent judiciary directed by the Democratic Party, and that's something this country can never afford.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32811	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32812	As an authorised representative of the promoter, is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32813	As authorized, you have the final word, as an authorised representative of the motionor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32814	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to a few things that have been said, among which there are things we can discuss and there are things that are absolutely false and false. First, this debate itself shows, in my own personal legal belief, that the authority to elect a public prosecutor from the level of the basic to the level of the republic, which belongs to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is indeed in the right place. When my colleague Komic, I tried to understand her the right way, talked about the mercy of the rulers, later she said – I don't mean anyone personally. I'm in good faith and in good faith interpreting her words, and I understand it and I understand it and it's my personal belief. The ruler here is the people of Serbia and are citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens choose their legitimately elected representatives in the National Assembly and the National Assembly decide. You sitting in the National Assembly are sent by Serbian citizens to decide, among other things, on the election of a public prosecutor. What is what happens for the first time in Serbia? In fact, Zivkovic said - there are no things going on here for the first time. He's got Mr. Zivkovic. In some past time, you could have chosen as a republican public prosecutor a man who never spent a single day in court, not in the public prosecutor's office, so he could come as head of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. Remember, there was a time when you were the Prime Minister, too, that was happening. That's right. Today we have the first time to propose re-election to the prosecutor who has completed and who has completed his first term in the next five months. What are we doing with this re-election? On the basis of clear criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, skills, dignity, which are public, transparent, known to anyone who is an interested person, who passes a certain procedure, a certain procedure. We have here essentially for the first time that in its fullness, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is respecting something. I don't know which way I'm going to repeat that it's much more important on what basis and by which criteria someone chooses, but by whom they choose. I, like I said, would love to live in such ideal systems, but we don't. You know, the cradle of democracy of the United States is a state, a cradle of modern democracy, is the state where John Kennedy put his brother as a state prosecutor. Find me someone amongst you who will say it's not democratic. It is absolutely democratic, in all, especially the Anglo-Saxon states, the public prosecutor's office is the executive authority. As far as you're concerned, the state's situation is that the state's attorney is at the same time a minister of justice, it's not just the United States. A large number of countries operate on that principle. I can agree with many who would say – but it would not work well in Serbia, and I support that, based on previous practice and everything that has happened and where no one can give me one, do you remember a republican prosecutor who has endured his entire term in office? Here, now we can make a bet that's such a chance, none of you can tell me that, because he doesn't remember. And he doesn't remember because it wasn't in Serbia. We had here for the first time, so this whole procedure is being conducted by the State's Major Prosecutors. Mr. Stefanovic said a few things that are absolutely incorrect. I really need to look back on that. One of these things, he says -- you called Nata Mesarovic as VSS president and no one called Zagorko Dolovac as the president of the State Council of Prosecutors. That's right. And you know why? Because at the time of the general election of prosecutors and deputy prosecutors, Zagorka Dolovac was not a member of the State Council of Prosecutors, nor was she a Republic prosecutor. She was not in that position, unlike Nate Mesarovic, who was the chairman of the interim composition of the Supreme Judicial Council and who was unconstitutionally elected to serve as President of the Supreme Cassation Court. There's a very clear and very reasoned difference. You say she hasn't shown up in three years in the media. So please don't mess with us. In three years, but whose authorities? Zagorka Dolovac appeared several times in the media from 2012 to 2015 than in the first three years of your term of office when you were in power. Find me a single press conference in that period by 2012. I can list you three to four cases, I was present at press conferences where she spoke as a state prosecutor and I can agree with you on one thing and that's one of the things that I honestly, Mrs. Dolovac, working with her, I object, I think the Attorney General should be more in the media. And to me, it's something that shouldn't be controversial. You said, so first you said that Mrs. Dolovac was a great prosecutor, that she had spent her whole life in a public prosecutor's organization, so you chose to put them in such places, and then everything you said at the end of your speech goes against everything you said at the beginning. You say - full of prosecution drawers of some cases. So how come someone who's a great prosecutor allows something like that? So how come you support the choice of such a person? You said your party was officially here and all its representatives said they supported that choice, and everyone had only good and commendable words for it. You say she's introduced a lot of new things, new grades. So how come it doesn't introduce them until 2012 when you were holding the justice portfolio? Is it true that we also passed a rule on criteria and criteria for assessing the work of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, but when? At a time when the executive power operates the SNS, and before that in three years, while the DS was doing it, none of it was brought. No disciplinary authority has been established. No deputy public prosecutor or public prosecutor has been prosecuted against whom disciplinary charges have been filed. Mr Babic made it very clear, in the Special Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, three indictments in 2012. The prosecution that may be the most equipped, which has the strongest logistics, which lacks financial resources, technical resources, anything else, three indictments, by 2012. Look at how many there are now. Among other things, you say, I quote you – that we, the SNS, among our staffs cannot find someone who is for that function. Well, you've shown the chalk of your policy, you've been setting up the appearance of only your staff, and here we don't have a situation of us setting up our staff, but the state's major prosecutor has proposed to the government, the government has come out and proposed to the Parliament. That's what's commendable and that's what you first do in a completely public, clear way. You all praised the State's Attorney General's report on the candidate's test and on the transparent application procedure. So when you commended it, you commended one principle. I'm sure you'll respect that principle in the future. I think a balanced division of powers, and in accordance with Article 4 of our Constitution declaring the division of power, but in which it is said that the relationship between different branches of government is established, that is to say, rests on the principle of mutual control, and that is exactly the key to every democratic state, every democratic order. If such responsibilities were to be exempted from the responsibilities of the National Assembly, we could not talk about any control. Then we could talk about the D.A.'s independence. There's a concept. My opinion is that this concept is very questionable, it does not exist in any Western democracy. The D.A.'s office isn't a court of law. The public prosecutor's office, and so I believe you also taught Mr Stefanovic at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, is a public prosecutor's office between the administrative and judicial authorities, i.e. between the authorities of the executive and judicial authority. It's a good thing we can discuss it here. You asked one of the questions, I answered what you said about why Zagorka Dolovac was not named. Zagorka Dolovac has been named for some other things, but this is a situation where every public official is found, no matter what branch of government he belongs to. Why was it not called when Mrs Mesarovic was called? I told you what the reason was, because at the time of the general election of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, the republican public prosecutor was, if I am not mistaken, Slobodan Radovanovic, who was not so in the judiciary, so he did not remain the same person. Why is there a second-degree verdict being lifted? You know, with that question, you're opening the key question here, what is it, on the one hand, what is judicial independence because it doesn't lift the prosecution's verdict, it's a court of law. The judge is independent in his free conviction. We've had situations, say, controversial situations in your New Sad, I mean yours because you're from that place, and mine is as much yours as yours is because you're growing up there and living and I assume you'll live, where the Court of Appeal has abolished some first degree convictions in cases that and how the public was concerned, the cases of some brutal murders. We've seen that the Court of Appeal has abolished for purely procedural reasons. We've seen that the second time he's re-determined, he's confirmed the sentence of a low-level court. Of course, we can think politically. It remains unsaid - and would it have been so if there had been no public revolt? We can talk about it, but then the question arises -- are we just once and partly for an independent court, and sometimes we're not? You can see that there are situations where the public dares and that broad crowds resent something that the court does. None of us then stood in the protection of the court and said – wait, I have confidence in what the court will decide. Why do they ever stop? How many of your convictions have you abolished that no one has ever heard of? How many confirmed convictions have you ever heard of? We have a problem in Serbia that a large number of cases or a significant number of objects that are under a great deal of public attention experience such a fate. When you look at, say, statistics or an annual report on work, including the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, you can see positive things in those reports. The problem is that these things are mostly of no interest to the general public. If you look at, let's say, what is the number of final plea agreements, so in how many cases have we avoided the main search, the additional costs, the conduct of marathon and long procedures for this very reason, then you would see that this is a good thing. Mr. Stefanovic spoke very inspiringly and inspiredly about how it was reportedly promised three years ago that the most effective would be in regulating the situation in the judiciary etc. Then I get here, though I've never heard that one time, and that's why I'm proud to be a member of this government and to be a member of the SNS that doesn't carry out the judicial division. Come on, tell me about this party personnel policy in the judiciary. You know, it's very difficult when someone comes in and does party staffing, so someone leaves the government, then the other one comes, and then the one who was before him was and has already been part of the whole, or in part, one system, then comes in and starts teaching you the departmental lessons. You know, it's not fair or correct. Judges and prosecutors have their functions all the time. It doesn't occur to us that people in whole groups of a few hundred and one stroke of feathers are driven out into the street. Look at the statistics of how many judges or prosecutors we are based on judicial judgments or disciplinary proceedings for poor work, one by one, from case to case, argued how many we have resolved. Then you can learn how to do it. You have a problem with someone, you claim someone's doing a bad job. You may be a citizen, you may be a lawyer, you may be the president of a court, you may be a public prosecutor, you suggest it and you do it. But more based on the stories of statements, party qualifications, memos, no more shifts will be made in the Serbian judiciary. I can tell you that responsibly. Could there be any dissatisfaction with a part of our members? Here, Mr. Risticevic talked about it. I appreciate him because he's a man who comes out and speaks his mind. Is there any dissatisfaction? I'm not hiding, there is. But I have to tell you that I think the approach that we have taken, and that's what my colleague Martinovic was saying, is that something that shows that evolutionary changes are much better than revolutionary changes and that every revolution has eaten its children and you can look at it on obvious examples. We had cases while your DS was in power that people who didn't have days of work in court, prosecutors or lawyers were coming to places like this that we're discussing today. You've had cases of people at the municipal court level, and counterpart Martinovic knows what I'm going to talk about, in less than two years, coming to the seats of the Supreme Court president. That was okay back then, that was democratic, fair. It provided the rule of law. Then, when we're no longer in a position to decide, I'm telling me, I don't mean us, but I'm thinking about whoever decided that then will come and teach democracy lessons. Here, this is an example of how something should work. I'm talking about institutions here. I'm talking about principles. I'm talking about principles. I'm talking about respecting the law here. I am very glad that the DS MPs will vote for Mrs Dolovac, because only a few months ago they accused her of carrying out a selective fight against corruption and crime by accusing only their members, so he was even organized, if you remember, and some protest outside the special department building and the Special Prosecutor's Office in Stavnica Street in Belgrade, and here, in what day DS MPs will vote for Mrs Dolovac. That's good, that means they were then engaged in political performances. Here, today appreciates her expertise, her professionalism. It's something he promises. I think that this government, which is confirmed by this congregation majority, has shown these cases and once again testifys and shows what the rule of law is and how it is implemented in action, the rule of law, not the rule of a narrow group of people or a group of individuals. I know it's hard for you to have so many court proceedings against your current or former members. I know it's hard for you to get the sand out slowly in that Sand hour of the province's government in the AP Vojvodina, but it's all normal. And you begin to understand, though painfully, that there are neither absolute authorities nor majority authorities and that slowly but surely a system of responsibility is being established in Serbia. Is it easy to set him up? It's not. We are the first government yet to be established in 2012, confirmed in 2014, which leads to major changes, which do not carry out these changes on the street, which are not carried out both by horizontal and vertical beatings in every sense by people and banishment from all functions, but we show how this is done in a gradual, measured, systematic and strategic way. It has begun to deal with public finances, most of all, with the fight against corruption and organised crime. We can always, Mr. Zivkovic said it well, we can always do more and better. I have the right to the final word, I can speak until morning. That's what the Rules of Procedure gave me. I'm glad you're listening to me so well.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32815	Mr. Zivkovic, you have the right to a replica, but to let Mr. Minister finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32816	I don't think he's entitled to a replica, but please don't, I apologize if I've given myself too much for the right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32817	Mr. Minister, it's a rule that, after the closing statement, none of the government's representatives speak, but according to the Rules of Procedure, they are entitled if they are mentioned to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32818	All right, if you say so by the chairman. I was just reacting based on the practice so far, when you led President Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32819	Mr. Minister, it is such an unwritten rule and respect for the government's representative, which is the final word and have the right to say something in particular, if we have a discussion in particular, but according to the Rules of Procedure, they have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32820	So I think this, like I said, is a good example. Is the state of our public prosecutor's office ideal in our judiciary? It's a long way from that. To make this better, we need to do a lot more and what may not have been said enough is about the nature of the work of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the Republic Public Prosecutor, as the first prosecutor in Serbia. We are only following, by the end of this year, the election of public prosecutors in public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, and I think that the example shown by the State's larger prosecutors is a good example of how the job should be fully public, unequivocally, transparently worked. I thank you for your attention and I am confident that in the voting day you will support the motion for a decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor and will choose Ms. Zagorko Dolovac to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32821	Thank you, Mr. Selakovic. I have Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Stefanovic reported. As I said earlier, it is usually the respect of the government's representatives to deliver the final word, but according to the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to reply. Do you want to use your right? Here you go. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32822	First, there is no custom for MPs to show respect to the government. The MPs choose the government, so there's no doubt that we can speak after the minister, if he wants to hear it, both after the Prime Minister and after anyone. So this is the House of MPs, not the home of the government. The second thing, the minister made a lie about me participating in the selection of some prosecutors, in those words at a time when I was the Prime Minister, who was brought from nowhere without any internship or any experience or building, which is also not true. It's customary to listen to the replica. It is respect for the institution and for the people's representatives. So, at the time I was Prime Minister, as I recall, one of the three prosecutors was Djordje Ostojic, who, I think, is today the deputy of the Republic Prosecutor. The fact that he was set up at the time, and so far, he's been talking about his qualities. Why didn't you replace him? You have Prijic who's been replaced, but he stayed in the D.A.'s office, and you probably have what bothers you most, the Vukcevic who is still in office today, not because you were good and you respected the law and you respected the law, but because you were ordered, because you too are someone's exhibits, not from here, a little outside. Finally, what the atmosphere in the government is saying is that the minister, whose proposal will be voted by all normal MPs in this room, for a proposal from the Republic Prosecutor, is probably surrounded by what he thinks no one can talk after him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32823	I thank Mr. Zivkovic. As I respect the Rules of Procedure, and I have given you the right to the Rules of Procedure, so you must speak as much as you have the right. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32824	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, absolutely not to slow down your legal knowledge and biography, it's a shame when you talk about lack of standing in court and around the court and in the prosecution, you who don't have one day, so you became Minister of Justice. Otherwise, Mrs. Dolovac handled the process of reviewing all the decisions of the State Council of Prosecutors, absolutely all decisions of the State Council of Prosecutors led by Mrs. Dolovac. When you heard here, first of all, I wasn't talking about her as a lawyer and a prosecutor at all, I was just talking about, the Honorable Minister, the Prosecutor's Office, the Mistakes, the Mistakes, the Mistakes, everything that's wrong with the D.A., so I don't think that this verbal game is worthy of this Assembly. The fact that she's a good prosecutor and a lawyer absolutely anyone, and she's not even appalled by the fact that in three years your government in this country is being persecuted by political opponents and that's true. I asked from the legal position – why are these charges so weak? I asked you -- which of the 24 controversial privatisations did she get the indictment that became valid? Who, tell me one? It's a story about the prosecution, respected ministers, not Zagorka Dolovac. Zagorka Dolovac, if she is not doing enough to do so as much as she wants to get out of the public, welcomed that the police minister is silenced at a press conference. That doesn't mean at all that I think she's a bad man and a bad lawyer, she's the woman under which the hierarchy of all the defendants in this country stand. It's very strange that the charges are dropping, that some aren't filed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32825	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. Mr. Stefanovic, if you did not respect the basic culture that the minister gave the closing word, you sought the right to the Rules of Procedure, exploited, then you must respect two minutes. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32826	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I have advertised the Rules of Procedure since my colleague's speech. Article 107, the dignity of the National Assembly, I am witnessing to describe why the Rules of Procedure was injured, because I am a witness to that time until 2003. When my fellow farmer was prime minister, the government was directly elected, the government of the Republic of Serbia elected prosecutors and thus elected Bruno Vekaric and Mrs Malovic, directly from the Justice Minister's office, the government appointed as prosecutors, i.e. the deputies of the mentioned person, of course, along with others. Complete untruth and insult to the Assembly and dignity of the National Assembly is the claim that this was not happening at the time. Since I was an MP, I am obliged, for the dignity of this house, to present these details. Also, he said at the end of the speech, which is also an insult, that everyone will normally vote for Prosecutor Zagorko Dolovac, which means that we who do not do so are not according to some of his criteria normal. I didn't know he was a specialist of that kind, but I thought he was just a patient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-22-0.u32827	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the search for a motion for a decision. The session will continue tomorrow at 11.00 a.m. on the amendments.
