ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35670	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the identification units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 98 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that today they have been prevented from attending today's session: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Dr. Branko Djurović, Mirko Cikiriz, Natasa Vučković. We continue to work and move on to a common principled and unique search with proposals of the law according to items 6 to 9 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session by the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic and her co-workers at the Ministry. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on the draft law on national parks, a bill on the validation of the Protocol on the prevention of water pollution caused by navigation, with the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on Co-operation in the Veteran Area and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a timely exchange of information in the case of radiological danger. Does Minister Snježana Bogosavljevic's representative Boskovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35671	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, it is my honor to welcome you on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection and on my own behalf. I am very pleased to be able to explain to you today the National Parks Bill proposal, as well as a set of three laws on the validation of international contracts that regulate extremely important issues in the area of agriculture and environmental protection. Let me explain today when, as Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection of the Republic of Serbia, I explain the proposed Law on National Parks, I begin my presentation with the famous Jean Batist Lamark, recorded in "The Zoological Philosophy" in 1809. Lamark says – because of objects that satisfy its current greed, it destroys large plants that store the soil everywhere, which quickly leads to infertility, it is easily populated, it causes the drying of the spring, it removes the animals that have found their food there, and it leads to the fact that the vast parts of the globe of the Earth are sometimes very fertile and in every respect very populated, now naked, infertile, uninhabitable, let go. It would be said that it is predetermined that since it makes the globe uninhabitable, it is itself rooted out. Of course, we all know it's one of France's greatest naturalists. Two centuries behind these Lamarck thoughts as if we were just one step away from fulfilling his warning prophecy. Today at the beginning of the 21st century, unfortunately, it can be realized that the impact of man on the environment has never been so intense, comprehensive and far-reaching. The future of the planet, the whole of the living world, as well as human civilizations, is critical of seeing human interrelations with the natural system that surrounds it. The basic conditions of functioning of bio-geo-chemical cycles, biodiversity, the composition of the atmosphere and the global climate change at a dizzy rate. Explosive, exponential growth, the numbers of the world's population, with a rapid reduction in the supply of natural resources, continuous accumulation of various half-tanates, dramatically at the beginning of the third millennium, warn of all seriousness of the resulting situation. In that sense, it is clear why the need to preserve the planet's natural ecosystems is growing in order to survive the biosphere as our only global habitat. The need for people to protect natural areas for certain purposes goes back in time. Of course, the basic objective of protecting certain areas of nature has always been to protect natural resources from bad influence and exploitation, and for general gain, which was primarily meant for selected groups or rulers. It has been confirmed that in India special areas were being protected in order to preserve natural resources more than 2,000 years ago. Even Plato expressed concern about the overexploitation of the forest blanket. We are proud to point out that the first ideas about the need to protect nature and Serbia are very old and that the origins of legal protection date back to the 14th century. Article 123. Dusan’s 1349 Law to the Sasima miners was forbidden to cut down forests, i.e. the established planting obligation in the places where the forest was cut down. In 1832, George Kapin, a famous artist of Indian origin, suggested that the spacious, wild environment of Yellowstone and Missouri be declared a national park, finally achieved in 1872, making Yellowstone the world's first national park. Its declaration defined the need and purpose to protect the wonders of nature for the benefit of the people. It is interesting to note that only two years later, in 1874, the Obedska Bar was protected as the first area to be protected on the territory of today's Serbia and this as a privileged hunting ground of the Habzburg dynasty. The first protected natural goods in Serbia since the Second World War in 1948 were the Ostorzub, Mustafa and Feljeshan forest reserves around Majdanpek. The first national park in Serbia was named Fruska Gora in 1960 at 25,400 hectares, then Đerdap in 1974 at 63,600 hectares, Tara at 19,200 hectares, Kopalnik 11,800 hectares in 1981 and finally Char Mountains in 1993 at 39,000 hectares. As I pointed out, the modern form of protection of natural areas in the form of national parks begins half of the 19th century. Since then, this concept has been significantly readjusted, evolved, reflecting norms, attitudes, and values over the past period. However, it is possible to conclude that the social view of protected areas for the last 150 years has been characterized by three recognizable models: a classic model from half the 19th century to the 70s 20 centuries, a modern model of the last three decades of the 20th century and a new conceptual model since the beginning of the 21st century. For the classical model, it is characteristic that protected areas have been isolated in a special way, it could be said that some kind of pearl in the crown, intended exclusively and primarily for scientific purposes, without seeing their wider economic and social value. Their funding is directly, centralized and tied exclusively to the government, through an allocation of funds on an annual basis. For the second modern model, which begins in the 1970s, it is characteristic that new governance mechanisms are defined, including financial sustainability. In this model, the establishment and management of protected areas recognises their far greater role in the social, economic and ecological dimension, both local and wider communities. Protected areas, except by the state, are funded by many partners, bilateral donors, foundations, including NGOs. Finally, starting in 2000, protected areas, their importance and management mechanisms of protection are seen in an even wider context of social, economic and environmental values. Protected areas are today recognised as essential integral elements of national and local economies, except for scientific and educational and for a whole range of other sectors, starting with spatial planning and land use, tourism, health, social development, energy and infrastructure. Protected areas, i.e. national parks, become simply uninsulated areas of space, but integrated parts of sustainable development at local and national level. Dear People's MPs, proposed by the National Parks Act, we want to meet such a conceptual model. Of course, the task ahead of us is not easy. The first obstacle lies in the still modest participation of protected areas of nature in Serbia's overall surface. In Serbia today, a total of 474 areas are protected from special importance for nature conservation and improvement: five national parks, 17 nature parks, 16 areas of exceptional shapes, 69 general and special nature reserves, 325 monuments of nature, botanic-dendriological, geo-morphological, geological and hydrological nature, and 42 areas with integrated cultural and historical and natural values. In the territory of the Republic of Serbia, 10 Ramsar areas have been isolated internationally, while under the UNESCO programme "Man and Biosphere" the park of nature Golia, along with the protected environment, was named Studenica monastery in 2001 as the Golia-Studenica Biosphere Reserve. However, despite a significant number of total areas, the protected areas of Serbia today are only 6.39%. I remind you it's at 10. The Conference of the Signatories of the Convention on Biological Variety held in 2010 in Nagoya, Japan, envisions that the countries of the signatories target 17% of the territory in the status of protected areas, while EU member states have increased the figure to 20% by 2020 as their target. A law that is before you, honourable Members of Parliament, achieves a more competent and successful recognition, identification of conservation and sustainable use of natural resources, strengthening social consensus and spreading awareness of the public interest of nature protection and more effective provision of the interests of holders of environmentally responsible, i.e. sustainable socio-economic development in national parks. Also, the reason for the adoption of this law is the need for the borders and regimes of protection, development and governance, rules of conduct, sustainable development policy, financing, roles and participation of the population and the public in the functioning of national parks to be defined more precisely. By law on national parks, most procedures in the production and adoption of documents are simplified and shortened, which, above all, prevents and reduces harmful consequences for citizens, businesses and other bodies and organisations. The reasons for the free assessment and interpretation of legal solutions by authorities and institutions shall be eliminated or reduced to a minimum. Conflicts of different interests and relations between stakeholders, including a more effective solution to stakeholders' participation in making important decisions to protect and use the national park, as well as to citizens' own. This law strengthens the rights, strengthens the powers and responsibilities of the national park manager, determines the purpose of funding from certain sources of funding and strengthens the collection system of fees for the use of the national park. This law also provides for the establishment of expert advice from the national park, as a professional and consulting body, which monitors and analyses programmes and projects from the protection of nature and sustainable use of the national park. In order to ensure the interests of the local population and users of the national park, it is also envisaged to set up advice from the users of the national park made up of representatives of local self-government, an organisation, an association whose activity takes place in the area of the national park. By launching the procedure for the adoption of this law, the area under protection is increased by about 6,000 hectares. At the very end, for argumentation, an exceptional, practically global importance of preserving protected areas of nature, the best thing to do is to serve us the next story. In 1993, Keri Mulis won the Nobel Prize, which included his discovery of a chain reaction to the polymerisation of DNA molecules, or PCR method, which was considered a sensational discovery. Today, 20 years later, this method has found multiple applications in everyday life and has become inevitable in the field of molecular biology, biotechnology, clinical diagnostics, judicial medicine, forensics and crime. A chain reaction to the polymerisation of molecules DNA is possible only in the presence of enzymes of Tag polymerase extracted from the “thermus acvaticus” that otherwise lives in thermal springs of Jelouston National Park. At the very beginning, I pointed out the fact that Yellowstone was the first national park in the world to be declared in 1872. If the thermal sources of that area were not preserved and a bacterial species in them, mankind would be left without this discovery and today its universal application. Reflecting on the relationship between man and nature, the need for its preservation should be kept in mind that diversity and the wealth of nature are part of our heritage as well as artistic paintings or famous architectural solutions from the past. Witnesses of history and human civilization, such as the pyramids of ancient Egypt, the Colosseum in Rome, our Students or Decan, Leonard's "Mona Lisa", our White Angel in Miles and a number of others, must be kept and cherished. We inherited them from our ancestors and borrowed them from our descendants. Our descendants will not be grateful if we are not to prevent the disappearance of elephants, wolves, eagles, their tails, or thousands of other endangered organic species as well. Do we even have the right to deny our descendants the possibility and satisfaction of meeting with a beautiful Apollo butterfly, impressive forests of prayer and ammunition on the Curse, young people from Drina, Pančić's omorika with Tara, or unique areas of Đerdap, Fruska Gora, Char Mountains or Kopalnik? Let me finally point out that the adoption of this law is also a series of positive effects in the domain of the objectives identified by the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, the strategic documents in the field of nature protection, the environment and sustainable development and international agreements and programmes. The adoption of this law also means increasing the area of protected areas and protecting biodiversity, i.e. ecologically significant areas that will be part of the Natura 2000 ecological network, whose establishment under Chapter 27 is one of the conditions of Serbia's EU accession. Dear People's MPs, it is a great pleasure for me to briefly explain three draft laws confirming international agreements in the area of agriculture and environmental protection. The first of them is the Protocol to prevent water pollution caused by navigation, along with the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin. It represents the first international Sava River Basin Agreement signed by states in the river's waterfront on 3 December 2002. The agreement, which entered into force on 29 December 2004, is an expression of the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on state co-operation in establishing an international navigation, sustainable water management, protection against the harmful influence of water, water regime and aquatic eco-systems. The implementation of this Agreement also enables more intensive participation in regional co-operation and projects carried out on a plan to prevent control and reduce pollution from ships in the area of water quality monitoring and evaluation, building an accident response system, etc. Dear People's MPs, you are now facing an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on cooperation in the veterinary field. The agreement was signed as part of a meeting of a permanent intergovernmental committee between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco, held in Belgrade on June 5th and 6th 2013. This Agreement lays down issues of importance for cooperation in the veterinary field between the two countries, such as the transport of animals and products of animal origin, the exchange of forms, certificates for the purposes of importing and exporting products of animal origin, exchange of reports on the occurrence and movement of infectious diseases of animals, the taking of measures to prevent, control, eradication of infectious diseases of animals, means of co-operation, mutual notification in case the consignment does not satisfy the veterinary sanitary conditions of the assurance followed by it, etc. The adoption of the Act on the Confirmation of this Agreement will create conditions for facilitating the transport of animals and animal products and for preventing the introduction of infectious diseases of animals and for the health of harmful products of animal origin, the improvement of the cooperation of the veterinary services of the two countries and of developmental veterinary experts to meet the organisation and functioning of veterinary services, the state of exit facilities and animal health. Improving the cooperation of scientific and professional institutions in the field of animal health and veterinary health control systems of products of animal origin, as well as the cooperation of diagnostic and analytical laboratories. Dear People's MPs, finally allow me to explain the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Serbia on the timely exchange of information on the case of radiological danger. The agreement was signed in Belgrade on July 1st 2014 and addresses issues of importance for the co-operation of the two countries in the fields of radio and nuclear security and for mutual timely information in the event of radiological danger. The main objective is to protect the population of Contracting States and the environment and to specify the co-operation of competent authorities. The most important objectives of this Agreement can be singled out: the contribution to general security and the protection of the population of Contracting States and the environment through timely exchange of information, experiences in the field of nuclear and radio security and the taking of appropriate safeguards, the setting of a legal framework for the co-operation of the two countries in the field of radio and nuclear security and the creation of conditions for the co-operation of the two countries' competent authorities, the better flow of information in the event of radiological dangers to avoid or be as little as possible and to take appropriate measures, compliance with international contracts in this area, as well as the adoption of recognised principles and requires an international Atomic Energy Agency and EU request. Most of the countries in the environment have mutually concluded such agreements, and similar international agreements related to emergency situations are concluded in other areas. The Agreement shall also be supported by a plan for action in the event of incidents which regulates tasks and obligations at national level in more detail and whose adoption is in the procedure. Dear People's MPs, by adopting the law on national parks and by confirming these international agreements, the Republic of Serbia will make a significant step towards protecting the environment and our natural resources, improve international co-operation and extend the potential for the development of agriculture and processing industries. Given the importance of these areas, I believe that the proposed laws will be approved and supported by the vast majority of MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35672	Thank you. Do the committees in charge want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Anamaria Vicek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35673	Thank you. Dear Presidents, a respected minister with associates, MPs, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a set of laws that are extremely important for the area of environmental protection and sustainable development policy and the SVM parliamentary group will support these laws in the day to vote. Now I'd like to talk about national parks law. First of all, I would just like to remind ourselves briefly that the term "national park" is used for the first time in the London Convention 1933, when the next definition of the national park "protected area is set aside for the preservation and promotion of its aesthetic, geological, archaeological and historical values, which prescribe certain restrictions and prohibitions". One thousand nine hundred forty years of this definition is expanded and the Washington definition then is complemented by "the preservation of natural, predetermined, panoramic beauty and plant and animal life of national importance", and it is added that in the national park the possibility of human activities to enjoy these beauty, which prohibits the exploitation of natural wealth for economic purposes. A comprehensive definition was brought to New Delhi in 1996 in the Assembly, which says – the national park is a relatively large area of exceptional beauty, where one or more eco systems are not changed by anthropogenic use and where the plant and animal world, biological and morphological characteristics have special importance for science, education and recreation. According to the basic division in the national parks of the American type, tourism and recreation are the basic function, and European-type national parks are more represented in conservation and scientific research. In combined types such as national parks in the Republic of Serbia, the conservatory and tourist functions are equally represented. In addition to a biocentre function that involves, above all, the protection of nature is also an anthropcentric function, which includes the activities that a person takes. However, it is important to establish a balance between these two functions, which is precisely achieved by this law. The passing of this law was necessary. By virtue of the 2009 Nature Protection Act, provisions of the National Parks Act were put out of force except for the members of the 6th and 7th and the description of the area of national parks. It was also necessary to specify the boundaries of national parks, protection regimes, development and governance, the rules of conduct with a clear definition of sustainable development policy, i.e. financing, as well as the participation of the population and the public in the functioning of national parks. The ultimate objective of this law is to better identify and use natural resources, strengthen social consensus, spread awareness of the public interest of nature protection, and to a large extent to ensure the interests of the holders of environmentally responsible and sustainable socioeconomic development in national parks. The first part of the law defines whether the law applies to the national parks of Fruska Gora, Đerdap, Tara, Kopalnik and Sar Mountains. It is important to point out that this part stresses that the national park is applied accordingly and the provisions of the law governing the protection of nature, if this law is not different. It is important to point out that checking through the text of the National Parks Act and the Nature Protection Act can establish that the proper application of the Nature Protection Act is respected, i.e. The texts are in line. In particular, the Nature Protection Act carried out the categorisation of protected areas and prescribed that the national park be declared a protected area and that is the only protected area declared by law. Otherwise, other protected areas of the province, i.e. regional, are of great importance and other categories. This area is declared by the Government, the competent authority of the Autonomous Province, when the protected area is located in the territory of the Autonomous Province, and the protected area of local importance, i.e. the third category shall be declared by the competent authority of the local self-government unit. As far as the objectives of the law are concerned, it is important to stress that the first eight points relating to the biocentre function of national parks and only the last ninth point relating to the anthropcentric function and this member will have one amendment to the SVM parliamentary group. Namely, our proposal is that this point that contains an impressive experience of nature for visitors, education and research is complemented by words – sport and recreation. Since we feel that this is also very important and we will, of course, be more specific in the day when the law is discussed in particular. The second part of the text of the law is the largest part of the text, and it refers to the precise determination of values and surfaces, i.e. borders and protection regimes. In this part, for one thing, it determines exactly why a national park was founded and if we look at individual diversity in the geological composition, or in the plant diversity, we find impressive knowledge of the charm and beauty of our national parks. In addition to determining the specificities of individual national parks, the areas or borders of the same are precisely defined in this section and should be stressed that the national park manager will be required to identify the boundaries of protection on the catastrian plan, the national park, in cooperation with the Republic, the geodetic and the competent nature protection services. In this part, protection regimes, i.e. protection regimes, are also specified. This section contains what percentage of a specific national park is protected by the first, second and third degree protection. Otherwise, on the basis of the degree of protection, prohibitions, restrictions on works and activities are applied, and this is all established by the management plan and the regulations governing the protection of nature. The fourth part of the law determines the management or sustainable use of the national park. The management of national parks and the operation of the controllers are of general interest and the managers of public enterprises are also named after national parks. That's it, for example. The “Fruška Gora” National Park is managed by the Public Enterprise “National Park Fruska Gora” etc. The founder of a public enterprise is the Republic of Serbia and the right of the founder is being exercised by the government, which is in accordance with the Law on Nature Protection and the Law on Public Enterprises. As regards the province's jurisdiction, in addition to the fact that there are certain confidential tasks in the surveillance inspection, through environmental protection inspectors, the provisions on inspection supervision contained in the law governing the protection of nature are properly applied in the exercise of supervision in the national park. However, the AP Vojvodina has no jurisdiction over national parks. However, I would like to mention several facts from the chronology of the events related to the management of the National Park "Fruška Gora", located on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The publication of the Constitutional Court decision, on 13 July 2012, ceased to apply the provisions of Article 27. The Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, assessed as unconstitutional, which prescribed that the AP Vojvodina should also be established by its authorities by the Public Undertaking for the Management of the National Park "Fruška Gora". After that, on 22 March 2013, the Treaty on the transfer of founding rights to the Public Enterprise "National Park of Fruska Gora", Sremska Kamenica, to the AP Vojvodina, was terminated, thus the Republic of Serbia regaining its founding rights. The SVM position is, of course, that it would be necessary to transfer the founding rights to the AP Vojvodina. However, the Constitutional Court's decision is not optional, so we have not submitted an amendment in this respect. The public company "National Park of Fruska Gora" founded under the National Parks Act. It continues to work in line with the proposal for this law and the decision to coordinate the business of the Public Enterprise "National Park of Fruska Gora" with the Law on Public Enterprises adopted by the Government on 20 May 2013. Finally, it is important to stress that the National Parks Bill sets out more precisely the protection regime in the national park, since the activities and works prohibited from being carried out in certain stages of protection are tax-listed. On the other hand, the obligations of the controllers in implementing the protection regimes in the national park and the management of natural values, building land which has been imposed on him on the use and management, facilities that serve in the management of natural values, and other immovableities that are entrusted to him in the management. What is also important is that this law strengthens the social consensus and extends awareness of the public interest of nature protection and ensures more effectively the interests of the holders of environmentally responsible and sustainable socio-economic development in the national park. Finally, let me just point out once again that the SVM parliamentary group will have one amendment, and in the Voting Day we will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35674	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35675	President-in-Office, Ms. Minister with Associates, Honorable fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, above all at the risk of repeating certain things already said by the minister or by my predecessor, or a colleague from the SVM, I want simply at the beginning of some definition to draw out. Some say they're new. Obviously, we used different definition documents. I'm trying exactly for viewers and for those of you who know little about this area that we might get a little closer to this topic. So I'm going to start with the national park being an area of land, often owned by a state, mostly protected from human influence, which I think is clear to everyone. Somewhere in the documents I found that the definition of a national park given by the International Union for nature conservation in 1969, more, that the national park represents one or more ecosystems, little or no change in human activity and inhabitation in which plant and animal species geomorphological elements and plant and animal habitats give special scientific, educational, recreational significance or in which there is a natural landscape of great beauty. For science, these are ideal spaces for studying natural laws, processes and relationships that are not affected by man. In these areas, this is very important precisely from looking at what this law defines, it excludes any activity that could degrade the original properties of living and non-living nature, which would mean that these are quarryes, water, energy operations, hunting, fishing, forest exploitation, etc. In 1992, at the World Congress on National Parks, a recommendation was adopted to protect at least 10% of its territory, and in Serbia, according to some data that I have found, and you are here to correct me, protected by around 3% of the territory, which means that it would have to be significantly more in order to reach these world standards. We just heard from a colleague, but I'll repeat, national parks can be classified into two types, American and European. They say – the American team is formed for tourism and recreation, and the European team has the features of reservations where the living world develops and lives completely free, and it is only protected from every human influence. So, what's our status? We have heard and I repeat, we have five national parks that match the European type, but we have modelled it according to our custom, which is the part of the reservation, but unfortunately there is an intense development of tourism, and buildings are built over the capacity allowed, we are in practice witnesses, we have the same problem with the Styria shop, which is why there is a problem and waste water and waste in certain national parks, the forest is cut down, whether it is planned or wild, and that is, there is erosion and endangering exactly what makes them national parks, which they would say in a simple language – intact nature. In its 2006 Constitution, the Republic of Serbia defined in Article 97 the obligation to regulate and provide, among other things, sustainable development, protection and promotion of the plant and animal world, thus defining the protection of all categories of natural resources, including the category of national parks, for which the adoption of a special law on national parks is foreseen. The 1993 National Parks Act is now under the influence of this Nature Protection Act and we are discussing the adoption of a new law on national parks, in accordance with the 2009 Nature Protection Act. It is obvious that he had been preparing for quite a long time, since its adoption was announced at the end of 2011. It was then announced that each of Serbia's five national parks would receive a special law that would better regulate borders, protection, investment and the development of these natural goods. The world practice is that every national park has its own law, because each area has its specific protection requirements and should develop in accordance with these measures. Why did it give up? It's just that's what I want to ask you. We heard something on the Committee on Environmental Protection, but now for the sake of the public and the other MPs, I want to hear it again. Why did they give up the special laws, already all these five national parks were put into one law? I would especially like to refer to the National Park "Fruška Gora", which is the only one on the territory of Vojvodina and is also the oldest, we have heard here, a national park in Serbia, which was declared since 1960, and the basic motive for the establishment of this park was the protection of natural beauty, historical monuments, plant and animal life and land characteristics. To note that in 1949, the government of the National Republic of Serbia founded the "Fruška gora" National Exclusion Centre, with the task of improving this complex as a field of excursions and resorts. I would like to highlight several features when it comes to the National Park "Fruška Gora", to be held at about 26,000 hectares, some 19,000 hectares in state property, and in private and other forms of property there are more than 7,000 hectares, some 6,000 of which have been returned to the church. Fruška gora is a great mountain for us and, although we are in the plain, its highest peak is 539 meters. It has a role of a relatively significant climate modifier and has the most impact on the change of temperature and rainfall opportunities in the mountainous area itself, but also in the immediate environment, which is of great importance to Novi Sad and all other municipalities that rely on Fruska Mountain, which are mostly municipalities from Srema. There are about 180 sources and 13 accumulation lakes in Fruška gora and there are several locations of thermo-mineral waters. It contains some 1500 plant species, including more than 40 natural rare Serbian and over 200 bird species. In particular, it should be noted that Fruška Gora is the only place in Serbia where the active nests of the Orla crusaders, the world's most endangered species, are the world's red list. There are cultural monuments, including 16 monasteries built from the 15th to the 18th centuries. So these are all the values that need to be preserved and which actually the citizens of the Vojvodina are most interested in. And the question is, how did this national park run? Some of that history we heard from my colleague, and I'm glad they support some of the things we stand for. This area is managed by countries through various forms of organization to date. By 1991, the province of Vojvodina had founding rights, i.e. jurisdiction over this national park, when for known reasons, by coming Milosevic to power, this jurisdiction was taken away, as well as other forms of autonomy in the region. The Law on National Parks 1993 established JP The National Park "Fruška gora", which manages this national park today. Based on the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, 2009 and the Agreement on the transfer of founding rights from the Republic to the province, 2010, this company was returned to the province, but by decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, again in July 2012, the right to set up the province, which means that the province's jurisdiction over the National Park "Fruška Gora" has been seized twice. This proposal for a law on national parks controls the application of this law is being carried out by the ministry, we have heard it from a colleague, which means that inspection supervision was taken in the National Park "Fruška gora", which was entrusted with the jurisdiction of the province of Vojvodina. True, the Nature Protection Act, in Article 119, which is normally a roof law, says that the AP Vojvodina is entrusted with the exercise of inspection supervision over the application of the provisions of this law to protected areas located in the territory of the AP, but apparently that which law comes to the adoption, we are witnesses, are being taken away from the authorities of Vojvodina as a minor and irresponsible child. Although the Committee on the Protection of the Environment has been told that inspection supervision remains as a trusted jurisdiction for all protected areas in the territory of the province, as well as for the National Park "Fruška gora", in accordance with the Nature Protection Act as a roof law, we believe that this must be stated in Article 25. A proposal for this law that is under discussion today, i.e. National Parks Act. In this regard, we have also submitted an amendment and we expect that this will be considered and that the law will define it more precisely, so that there are no wrong, or arbitrary interpretations later in practice. Another important issue is the financing of national parks. The bill, which is before us, does not specify how public undertakings operating national parks are financed, only in the reason, states that no additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget is needed in relation to which they are already given in section 23 of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, but states that the main revenues for the settlement of the costs of managing the national park are from the activity of the public enterprise itself and from compensation for the use of the national park. True, the Nature Protection Act lists all sources of funding, and it is said to be the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, of local self-government. It is interesting that the funds of the Environment Fund are also listed, and you know that the Fund was abolished in 2012 and is now in the announcement of a new fund that I hear will be called the Green Fund. But unfortunately, we lost three years. Afterwards, compensation for the use of the protected area is used, revenues achieved in carrying out the activity of the management of the protected area, then revenues achieved for the implementation of the programmes, plans and projects for the protection of the area, donations, gifts and assistance, as well as other sources in accordance with the law. Then, when it goes to JP National Park "Fruška Gora", it says it is financed through the performance of forestry, hunting, fishing, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina, through participation in competitions and from donations and project funds from different funds. It's dangerous when in basic action it's said that it's forestry, hunting and fishing, and we know and we have seen from the beginning that it's precisely an activity that one national, or one who owns a national park, should not work, that protection is actually his first and primary goal. Then it is clear to me as an ordinary citizen why JP National Park relys on action, and that is, for example, cutting down forests, hunting, building permits, etc., and that is not the kind of protection that is being conducted in other countries and how it should look. Then it's clear why I, for example, as someone who travels often on the Frust Mountain, sees trucks pulling out logs and often mentions some sort of sanitary cut, and about an illegal cut that I don't even talk about. By the way, I must say, Vojvodina is the least forested region in Europe, it has about 6% of the area under the forest. If it wasn't for Frusts up there, that average would be even smaller. For all of us who deal with these topics, and in general for people in power, a red alert light should be turned on that priority must be given to protect existing forests and reforestation of new surfaces. By comparison, Serbia and Albania have the least forest in the region, on average, 32%, and we in Vojvodina would be happy if we reached a European minimum of 14%. Of the countries of the wider region of the Balkans, the richest green treasure, according to the media, is Slovenia in which more than 60% of the forest was forested. That's why they have no dust there, and I guess that's why people don't have a problem with respiratory organs, unlike citizens and especially children in Vojvodina. I'm going to look back at the climate, it's just not just a popular topic, it's something that's of great importance. Climate change leads to long dry periods with high temperatures like we had this summer and therefore forest conservation, especially in national parks, must be a priority for all levels of government. The concrete sidewalks, buildings in the cities fly further warm the cities. Materials like asphalt and concrete absorb the heat of the sun and broadcast into their environment. That's why the temperature is on the city streets, it's already known fact, a few degrees higher than the urban zone. More green areas, trees, parks, meaning, and less overheating, plants absorb water and then return to the atmosphere, which lowers the surrounding temperature. There's a simple way to reduce energy consumption and not pollute the environment just by raising the level of noise. Something else, when it comes to the National Park of Fruska Gora, is the problem of a regional road passing through a national park of heavy traffic, there is noise, exhaust gas that pollutes air, and that must not be all in the national park. In the draft law, Article 17 provides for the possibility that a controller may restrict or modify the traffic regime if it threatens or harms the national park. This route that passes through Fruska Gora is clearly threatening to confirm the air analyses that were made several years ago at the Irish Venice. Also, the occurrences are common, because the "Serb Roads" that land, or manage this route, have not raised protective support walls along the road, and even trees from the country crash into the road, and then you just have a traffic sign, or a sign that warns you to watch out, and you can't really do anything about it. So, intertwining the competence of each other must be synchronised, or activity must be such that it does not endanger the forest and, above all, does not endanger the lives of the citizens. It is clear that this provision on the possibility that the driver should ban or reroute traffic in practice will not be used because there would be a traffic disturbance, because it is a vessel of the housewives that is towards Bosnia and on the highway, and then the protection normally does not have a priority and unfortunately it is the reality in us. That is why it is necessary to remove this trip from the National Park and build a tunnel through Fruska Gora, which would finally breathe through the full lungs. We saw the setting of the foundation stone for "Belgrade on Water" a few days ago, we want to see the setting of the foundation stone for building a tunnel through Fruska Gora and the bypasses around Iriga. Unfortunately, the province has no jurisdiction, no money, so it has to wait until it's a turn for this time if it ever comes. We have proposed amendments to this law to make it clearer and easier to apply, although we believe that for each national park a special law should be passed, which just shows an example of the National Park of Fruska Gora and in the day of voting LSV will vote depending on whether any of our amendments will be accepted. Secondly, just a moment, it's a protocol to prevent water pollution caused by navigation. This protocol is another document I would like to comment on, and this protocol is with the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin. I welcome, first of all, the signing of a protocol like this because it's about time these things were settled. Namely, what it's about. This protocol stipulates that we as one of four signatories provide for the reception of waste and wastewater from vessels at certain points through Serbia where reception stations will be placed. We are also obliged to carry out monitoring the quality of the Sava River in port areas and inspection measures to ensure that all instructions and requirements for preventing pollution caused by vessels are respected. We undertake to co-operate through the Sava Commission to prevent pollution of water caused by ship navigation and establish a mutual information system between signatories. And that is all the reason to welcome the establishment of a protocol like this to regulate relations between us that are signatories, which is four countries in the region. But we need to know that we're expected to follow protocol like this. We don't have a wastewater treatment system enough. We heard on the board that the checkpoints will be established in Šapac and Sremska Mitrovica. None of these cities have a wastewater treatment system. The issue of waste management, i.e. waste collection, is the same. So we don't have enough dumps, and the special item is the moritoring water that we're bound by this protocol continuously to do. Unfortunately, most often when looking for means to set up moritoring, then there is no such means and it usually does not become a priority and by the rule then we do not have enough data and we do not have what we are looking for. Therefore, that should change. This Protocol also requires financial resources and the involvement of competent institutions to ensure the conditions necessary for its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35676	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35677	I would like to thank the MPs who have already spoken about the National Parks Act, and I would like to say a few of the dilemmas and suggestions that we have now heard from Lazic to answer briefly. The first dilemma you presented concerns an area protected by certain types of protection in Serbia. You said that according to your data, it's about 3%. According to data available to us, 6.38% of Serbia's territory is protected. These are protected spaces of national interest. However, we in Serbia have an even higher percentage of protected areas of about 21%, and these are other types of protection but in some ways certain areas are also protected in accordance with international agreements and EU directives. As to the dilemma about whether it should have been brought before and whether it should have been one single law or how it was once thought to be five laws, for every national park in particular. I want to tell you what you and you know, therefore, with the adoption of the Nature Protection Act in 2010, the current National Parks Act with the exception of Articles 6 and 7 and the description of the area of national parks ceased to apply. Since then, it's been waiting until today for this law. What were you waiting for? It was mainly due to the need to agree with a large number of institutions, with a large number of organisations, ministries, etc. But I have another very important reason to point out. Often the ministers changed, so that simply none could finish a job that was both agricultural and forestry and water industry, and now the environment is added. It may not be bad because this longer period of time has given opportunities to all interested parties, but also to professional people to say their opinions and that we simply today say that we are convinced that the proposed quality law, behind it is a profession, but there are all those other interested above all users of protected areas, i.e. national parks. The question, whether one or five laws, is now a question and a dilemma. You said that then five years ago the prevailing opinion was to be five laws. However, the working group made up of professional people during the draft law was in a dilemma and stood at the view that it was better to be one law, that it was more consistent legally and correctly. It's more cellular, less complicated by the administration because a very large number of members would be repeated by these laws. So we think that this is a more functional solution, so it's just a legal-technical approach, no mistake has been made, and I still have to say that there's an expert task force behind this decision working on this bill. As far as the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is concerned, we, by this law, have not abolished any jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. As you know, by the Constitutional Court's decision of July 2012, he ceased to apply Article 27. The Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which was the rights of the founder of the public undertaking for the management of the National Park of Fruska Gora, was entrusted or transferred to the AP Vojvodina. This right, which you consider to have been denied by this law, is not denied by this law, but by the Constitutional Court's decision of 2012. Of course, this does not mean that the AP Vojvodina does not have a significant share in the functioning and success of environmental protection and the functioning of the Fruska Mountain National Park, because, as you know, Article 17. Decisions on the coordination of the business of the public undertaking of the National Park of Fruška gora with the Law on Public Enterprises are provided for two members of the Supervisory Board to appoint the AP Vojvodina. In addition, Article 5(1). The Act on the Protection of Nature is envisaged, i.e. a binding legal provision to establish mutual co-operation between the Republic and the province institutions, so as to ensure equal and common care for the good functioning of the National Park and the protection of the environment and the protection of nature and natural advantages in the area of Fruska Mountain. Co-operation is foreseen, co-operation is a commitment, and I just want the people of Vojvodina to know that we are not denying anything by this law or reducing it. The jurisdiction of the inspection remains, nothing has now been changed, nor has it been reduced for the representatives of the province. When it comes to funding, you yourself said you didn't know exactly how national parks would be financed, but then you pointed out all the sources of funding and I think that dilemma you initially pointed out has already been answered. When we talk about national parks and this law today, I would like to reiterate that the issue of functioning of the national park, financing, management, environmental protection, protection of natural values is regulated not only by the Law on National Parks, but also by the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Regulation on protection regimes, provisions on the coordination of public enterprises with the Law on Public Enterprises, public undertakings of national parks with the Law on Public Enterprises, so there are several legal documents that regulate these issues and absolutely everything is legally covered. We have tried to provide all necessary preconditions in terms of legal regulations for success in what we want with this law to achieve – protection and sustainable use of the natural values of national parks. The regional road you mention, you say it is necessary to provide by law that regional roads do not harm naturally in national parks, and you also mentioned Article 17. The law which provides for the ability for the controller to give the final court, and you know that the controller will now have with him and expert advice, as a professional and constituent body, made by the most prominent experts on nature protection issues, but also the advice of the users of the national park, so that all together can give recommendations on the removal this time. Just when we analyzed this member of the law and implanted it in the bill, we had in mind the problem that you pointed out, the problem of the regional road in the area of Fruska above. I agree with you as far as our forests are concerned, as far as we're concerned, but that's the condition we inherited, the state we all need to worry about, all of us, to remind us, to remind us that we must treat the woods with due attention and that we simply have to go in the direction of hammocking. Forests have enormous importance, particularly in the context of nature protection, in the context of the fight against climate change. We are not satisfied with the surfaces they cover, we are not satisfied with the quality of the forest, and that is precisely why we worked very intensively in the previous period to prepare the laws in the field of forestry. The law has passed all the procedures, the government has established it and I believe it will be here very soon at the assembly session. I think it's addressed to the Assembly for consideration. I want to say that we are really paying attention to all environmental issues, and when it comes to national parks, biodiversity, geodiversity, ecologically important areas, taking into account their importance and importance for the quality of life in Serbia. So we approach equally responsibly to forests and environmental issues. We've done this law, the forest law will be very quick in procedure, all the recommendations and all the positive opinions it's got. As you know, we have three still extremely important environmental laws that will also be in the process, I hope at the end of October and early November. Anyway, thank you very much for a very nice discussion. When we talk about these professional things, we understand each other very well, and I am very valuable to all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35678	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35679	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister and Associates, as regards the case of the law we are discussing today, you have quoted in the reasons for the adoption and listed the following – one of the basic reasons for the adoption of this law is to repeal the law on national parks, except for the provisions of Articles 6 and 7 and the description of the area of national parks, by way of the Act on the Protection of Nature, and the adoption of a special law. I'm interested, since this isn't a Lex special, the bill we're discussing today, which is a special law you mean, since we've heard exactly your explanation, actually an attempt to explain why no special law has been approached, which has been promised to be done for each national park individually, and all given their personalities? What is easiest is to write that the need to ensure that the borders and regimes of protection, development, governance, rules of conduct, policies for sustainable development of funding, the role and participation of the public in the functioning of national parks. I don't understand how this is going to be achieved by one bill, including, say, sustainable use of natural resources? If it only comes from some mere, declarative predictions and assumptions, I don't think that's going to be enough in any case. The EU accession process is the one that forced us and forced us to actually comply with our domestic regulations with EU rules, and this regulation is not an epochal solution, but a mere alignment with the said EU rules. So, instead of having the awareness of it ourselves and accessing a certain bill ourselves, we are always forced and forced to do so, usually within a minute to 12. To pass the law is one thing, and to ensure his life in practice represents something completely different, both in terms of this bill and in terms of absolutely every other law. In that context, I'm curious about how in practice you're going to get the positive effects you're stating, and I have to notice that as they're set up, they're quite optimistic, not to say from my point of view - overly ambitious? You state that this bill solves the following problems – to define more precisely the protection regimes in the national park, to taxively list activities and works that cannot be done at certain levels of protection, to define the obligations of the controller through the implementation of the protection regime in the national park, the management of natural resources, the building land transferred to use, to define the development and management of the rules of conduct, etc. In the context of these mentioned objectives, you state that it is achieved by passing laws and for creating, what I find particularly interesting, "to create a safer legal environment". I would agree with you in this place if we had already established as functional a legal environment. Of course, the same goes for legal certainty, since something in our country right now is missing. As a matter of fact, we have her anthony in place. The law on nature protection in Serbia was first passed in 2009. We've been able to hear that a few times since this debate started. My question, too, has already been asked to you, is why has this long been waiting to be proposed in the first place? Now, before at this point, it seems to me that we have solved all the problems in our country, in agriculture there is still to solve the problem of national parks and we are the perfect state, at the very least. I note this because exactly what my colleagues have already said before me is that you have tried to explain but rather clumsyly, the reason why they just gave up the special laws that have been potential to be passed for each national park individually. The protection of nature that is so often spoken of certainly represents the general interest of all of us, and I think it is absolutely undeniable, but it must be allowed a certain degree of economic development, because without it there is no progress on us, and I don't mean only the development of tourism, but also in the area of environmental protection. If we want to deal seriously with environmental protection, then it certainly is not enough for public debate to be organised in the form of some presentations and debates throughout five places, for two hours, with an exception in Belgrade that lasted three hours. When you mentioned in this bill and in the reasons for its adoption, the Natura 2000 ecological network, about the national and international importance of exactly national parks, it will be able to be fully seen just after completion. So now that we're saying anything in this context, it would be completely prejudicial. It is the project that covers areas that are important for the conservation of endangered species, and the network is also created by the aim of preserving more than 1,000 rare, endangered and endemic species of wild animals and plants, as well as the protection of about 230 natural and semi-natural habitats. Up to now, some 30,000 areas covering nearly 20% of the EU's surface have been included in the Natura 2000 ecological network. The Law on the Protection of Nature does not slow it down and it is a shift that has been achieved precisely in the protection of these areas. Mandatory cadastar bases have also been introduced, so it is now known which territory covers the first and second and which third protection regimes. However, what is undeniable is the fact that very often it is also about catastrian plots that are privately owned, and the guarantee of private property ultimately also provides the RS Constitution. I'm interested, since in the description of the borders of national parks, each of them, there are a dozen catastrian parcels, which number are the same, and do you know which number of the same cadastrian parcels is privately owned? What are you going to do if, for example, a description of the borders. The National Park of Fruska Gora, that's what all of them mentioned, so I'll also relate to my colleagues, let's say there are cadastrian plots that are subject to restitution, and it's very possible that there are such ones, especially the disputed issues of restitution, right in Vojvodina, since the biggest request for return of property, including land, and forest land, if you will, filed on the territory of Vojvodina, so I'm wondering, how will you react to such problems in practice, if it comes to them? Do you know what number of parcels are located, for example, in the restitution process, and as regards land under these cadastrian parcels, so, that enters into the description of the territory of each national park individually, since you claim that our country is, in fact, what we all claim to be, and I think that you agree here, that our country simply shows the inability to carry out a comprehensive reform of the national diameter and catastra so that we know who should do what here and how any data in any law would be properly valid? In fact, I think it can be a very big problem, and I don't know how you're going to respond to such demands if it's practical. For example, for example, in this assembly we recently debated and, of course, the Law on Land Conversion and, let's say, in this bill, it was possible that the land that was the subject of the conversion could be the subject of the restitution process at the same time. Fortunately, an amendment to the Democratic Party of Serbia was adopted, so a solution is foreseen to suspend the process after the conversion of the conclusion until the process after the restitution is over. To be honest, I hope that you have predicted a way of acting urgently and how you will solve this problem if you report in practice. Of course, in the future, we can expect that some of the problems our neighbors have faced will arise, much further than we have. We do not have a sufficient number of employees in national parks, lack of cooperation among institutions, we have insufficient professional staff, etc. In Croatia, which has eight national parks and which make far greater revenues than our own, the state audit did not give a favourable assessment of the situation in the field. In fact, a number of problems have been observed from those that I have already mentioned, and they can be expected from us, and that is that the real surface areas of national parks have been significantly different from the spatial plan, and I hope that in our case that's not the case, but time will show. Then, there are problems that can also be expected with us, concerning the famous issue called unresolved property-legal relations in the country of Serbia, illegally built buildings and poor fire protection, etc., because problems can be listed indefinitely. I'm not going to engage in detail here, nor should this display of mine be commendable. It's nice that we're dealing with national parks now, but there are far more important things in agriculture that I expected to discuss in the tide from national parks. In fact, if I didn't know the opportunities in our country as I said before, I'd think for a moment that the Resort Ministry of Agriculture solved all its problems, and that's all we have left to deal with national parks and somehow it's like a cake cream. I expected, in fact, that long before we reach the topic of national parks at all, I have already noted that this law is nothing more than a alignment with EU regulations and nothing epochal in it, that is what is systemically regulated, and what we have been obliged to do in these very issues. I thought the Ministry of Agriculture would solve the burning problems in agriculture, because if it doesn't do so as soon as possible, I think agriculture will become just like that, too, burning, threatening to become dust and ash itself, because at this point we're dealing with national parks, and on the other hand we don't know what about the cooperative law, when it comes to the agenda of the Cooperative Law. We have absolutely no information from the ministry. The Veterinary Act exists, it is brought, it is written beautifully, but it is in practice not implemented, it is in practice not respected. It says that animal protection funds are provided in the budget, and let's say we have a rule on the health care programme, where it says that, say, the means for tuberculosis and the blue language, part of these funds actually pays a farmer. Now we're introducing a legal non-sensus here to equalize the legal power of one law and one rule, and they're not equal legal forces at all. Before national parks, we should also ask the question here if the austerity measures are already in place, then you should be saving in some, say, other place, and not saving on the protection of the stock fund, because it's going to be dangerous if there's an outbreak. The word is that the hole in the agricultural budget is about 17 billion. If that's true, then the logical question is, how are you going to settle your obligations because the veterinary cells haven't even been paid in August and now it's October? Also, before the theme of national parks, we should have discussed some of the following questions here. One of these is that there are currently 400,000 cows in Serbia. That number is with a tendency to decline, and let's say 20 years ago we had a million and 200 cows, and again here on this point we have nothing but decay and decay and absolutely nothing. Also, before we were dealing with the topic of national parks, we should have discussed both this and someone publicly saying that, at least from the Ministry of Agriculture, that the state was arguing with, say, the company "Energo Green" from Belgium, which worked in India, which dealt with the non-harmful removal of corpses. Of course, they left, someone guaranteed they'd have work to do, so he played them, and the damage to our country could be up to 100m euros. Also, before national parks, we had to deal with questions related to veterinary administrations, where the situation was absolutely catastrophic, and the contribution is only one fact, which is that we had eight directors back eight years, and we didn't have ten export facilities, not to mention the number of inspectors, etc. Before national parks, we should have dealt with the issue of irrigation in our country, which is in a single-digit percentage of about 4 or 5%, so I guess we should play down and look into the sky, begging that it rains as soon as possible, because there was no such thing as irrigation in the National Assembly. I don't dispute the importance of national parks, don't get me wrong, but I think that before we approached the solution to these problems, there was, let's say, an x-pislon number of topics that had to be more priority, especially for you, because you're at the head of the Resolute Ministry of Agriculture, and only when we discuss the topics that depend on the repair of the situation in agriculture, if there's anything else that can be fixed, and then we end up leaving the national parks. At this point, you should be aware of what all agriculture in Serbia is facing. Once again, I note, I do not dispute the importance of national parks, but I think that as the National Assembly and as MPs, we have had far more pressing issues to deal with than national parks. As far as the next bill is concerned, there's something else I have to say. It concerns the submitted proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on the prevention of water pollution caused by navigation, with the Framework Agreement in the Sava River Basin. If nothing else, it was expected that after the May floods of last year, we discussed here in particular your report, which you submitted after the tragic floods, that at the very least you would be the initiator as a resolute ministry of a bill which, for example, could instead carry a bill on the prevention of water pollution caused by the floods in Serbia in May 2014 and the elimination of all the harmful consequences of the same. Of course, you have decided to remain consistent with yourself in everything you do, along with the exception of the national parks you are discussing today and to remain consistent with the many accumulated problems that are being raised here, and your attitude is nothing more than the silence of all the problems that are being accumulated in agriculture, and I repeat, it is in such a state that it threatens to collapse on its own and that we here are absolutely no longer dealing with the issue of agriculture. I support national parks, I support this proposal, but I find it really unnecessary that at this moment, when agriculture almost does not exist, we are dealing with national parks. We had a lot more serious issues to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35680	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35681	Thank you. I just wouldn't know where to start answering all the criticisms and suggestions given by the MP. Let me start from the beginning, from what concerns today's debate. I hope this time I'll be a little more skillful. As for that, what have we been waiting for? The question was asked – why was it waiting from 2010 until today for the National Parks Act to be passed? That's one question. The question is parallel to this – does the Law on National Parks or the laws in the field of agriculture prevent it? I get the impression that whatever we'd do, it wouldn't be good. As far as the National Parks Act is concerned, we have been preparing it with due care since the very beginning of my term. We took what the ministers did before me, working groups before me. Since 2010, they have worked on this law, organised very broad public debates and, behold, professional services now provide me with data for 2010, where they were and how many there would be, in 2012 and 2014. There was a wide range of interests in these issues and not just direct public debates, but the draft law was on the ministry's website. All those who wanted, who were interested, could take part in the preparation of this law. Now, was it supposed to be a year and a half ago, when I came and when this group of people who deal with nature came from one ministry, from the Ministry of Natural Resources in the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, did I have to tell them – people, excuse me, please, I have difficult questions and difficult problems in agriculture, you wait for me until these issues that are more pressing or more important, in my opinion, solve it, and then we'll do it? Of course, I couldn't do it. We're one huge ministry. We have very much to do with both national and European legislation. We must make every effort to give a better and more concrete answer through a legal solution. We can't make priorities of what's more important and what's first. We're doing everything. We have 14 laws now that are complete and only waiting for an opinion and will be in the congregation procedure. This only testifies to the great work and sacrifice of the entire Department of Agriculture team that it simply puts no problem under the carpet, that no problem closes its eyes. That's how we experience the National Parks Act. He's getting the circumstances done early. He didn't have to go to some translations and some extra approvals. It's just, technically, he arrived early in the procedure. This isn't an emergency procedure. It was delivered to the Assembly. The congregation has appointed him, you as messengers of the people, that he may be on the agenda. We didn't affect it, it could have been in December, it could've been next year. We finished our work, got all the necessary opinions, and that law was passed by the government to the National Assembly. I have to say, these are questions that are specific, very professional. This is where people participated in law-making not only the ones you see here today, but the Institute of Nature Protection, the professors of the university, learned the workers. It was simply an effort to reach the best solution. I am today only in their name to defend this and explain it to you. Whether one or five, I have unsettledly explained, may even now be clumsy, the expert working group felt that the current situation, when it comes to national parks of Serbia, which are five, should be verified through one legislative proposal. That's exactly the legal proposal we present and defend to you here today. Of course, this is not over and sealed for not knowing how long a period, because our professional services, the Nature Protection Department, prepare and study for new protected areas. We believe that some of them will also be in national park status. Thus, it means that for the new ones, when we fight for them, we will have a very safe and new law. Perhaps then some new working group, perhaps some new minister, might then suggest that it be five laws, six laws, but this is now what we are verifying as a current state, with a desire to protect it in some way. You're saying that in these national parks, there are not enough employees and that we do not have enough expertise. Believe me, that's quite a serious accusation, and we don't expect you to make such accusations at all. I need to know from where you find out that we have fewer people everywhere in the system than we need. I mean the inspections, the guards, all kinds of other jobs. It's nothing new. But I don't want anyone to think that our people, who are now employed, are not doing their job well enough, doing more than they should, and in particular, you'd have to give me precise information and say they're not professional. I think it's not good, it's not correct and it's not professional to treat people who do one job extremely responsible, extremely difficult and work that we all in the system and in the state expect benefit, we expect profit, we expect it to be something that we'll be proud of our national parks, I know, they're one of our main assets of Serbian tourism. Now let me move on to this other topic, since you've opened these other topics, I could talk about these other topics all day, but I'm going to try to be brief so that I can give other MPs the opportunity to talk about the subject that's on the agenda today, but just so it doesn't stay unannounced. You say the Cooperatives Act, the Cooperatives Act is in the process of public debate. Whoever's interested in the questions he's asking here, I assume he knows, that law is being prepared by the Ministry of Economy. I think it's a public debate at the end. He'll be in congregation procedure now. As far as Minister Sertic told me, he expects it to be in October. This law, among other things, treats various types of cooperatives, including agricultural cooperatives. As for the other laws in the area of agriculture, I say we have prepared a lot of laws. We've been working all summer on important laws, like the food safety law. The law on food safety follows four more extremely important laws. This law has been prepared for the previous four years with these four, it is five laws and they will very soon enter the assembly procedure: the Agricultural Land Act, the Alcohol Drinks Act, the Wine Act. Therefore, we have prepared very much from the agricultural sector of the law. I'm just afraid there'll be plenty of time to defend them all in the fall session, because with them we have these laws from the environment. I am telling you that the Ministry of Agriculture's professional services have worked very hard and we have really worked very hard to do a lot of work and to prepare for adoption, to be reform laws, to be laws that will also be harmonised with EU directives, but also to respond to national needs. I forgot the water law. So, very, very many laws, 14 laws are under way. I just don't expect you to share any of the standard data when it comes to the number of cows and when it comes to registered facilities and when it comes to subsidies on agriculture. The number of cows has stabilized last year and before last year, and it shows an upward trend. First of all, you can also find that from statistical data. As for the facilities approved for export, we agreed the certification procedures with both the Customs Alliance and the Russian Federation and with Turkish countries, CEFTA, EFTA, the EU, even China. There is no practical market in Europe where our dairy, meat producers, our warlords cannot export their products. This is the result of the work of the Veterinary Authority which you characterise as one administration where everything is black and where there is no system. That administration has established these procedures. You say, only 10 objects have an export licence. I must tell you that only with the Russian Federation 44 objects of the dairy industry, meat industries have the opportunity to export. Whether they will use it or not, that's a special question now. You mentioned subsidies, you mentioned debt. I have to tell you this. The budget law adopts the agricultural budget every year. Last year you adopted the budget of the Republic of Serbia and, within it, the budget for the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, and within it, the budget you think of, this agrarian budget, means, directly for subsidies. I'm asking you now -- if that budget is adopted and he's in realisation now, so the current budget in the current year, how can you talk about a hole? How can we owe something we got to share? That's what we get every year. So, at the end of the year, the budget is adopted, in January the regulation is being passed in accordance with the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act, on the basis of this Regulation, further funds are being transferred to farmers. There's so much to talk about, and there's little to know. We can't possibly owe something we didn't get to share. If we had defined part of these funds for some other purpose, and not for subsidies in agriculture, it would have been a real debt, but this is not how it can be taken under that debt classification of yours. I'm asking all of you and the farmers to be patient. Please, the current year, current obligations. Agriculture isn't on its knees, as you say, and I'm sorry, but I think some people would like to be on their knees. Serbia's agriculture has extraordinary export potential and uses it with extraordinary benefits, and according to what we inherited. Last year, I was proud to point out that, despite the floods, we achieved a surplus in the exchange of agricultural and food products, over a billion euros, 1,120,000,000 euros. Let's see who else can boast of it. Yesterday I received information about what this relationship looks like in this year, but unfortunately for dealing with national parks, I haven't been able to identify them in detail. I'm gonna take them out for the next few days and I can tell you in the Assembly on Monday, but what they're saying for this year is that growth is bigger than last year. Please, don't talk to the public and the farmers like that. It's not easy for them, and we know it. We're doing it to help as much as we can, but they need a little optimism. Believe me, the government of Serbia and the ministry are making every effort to help agriculture. What has not been done in the previous years and the previous decades is not possible, dear MPs, to turn in a year. So, please, give me some time, give me some patience. Things are moving and things are gonna get better. I'm sure it'll get better. I would ask you, since we're all on the same assignment, not to speak unverifiedly, not to speak incorrectly, not to spread pessimism. We need help for our agriculture, support maximum and what is very important – optimism. If we were so unverified, as you say, we went out to our farmers, and the data was untested, then they would say, come on, and we'll go, it doesn't matter, we won't do anything, we'll ask for some social help. I'm sorry, at first I said I could talk a lot about these topics, but I apologize to the others who have prepared themselves for the National Parks Act. Believe that next few months by New Year's Eve there will be a lot of laws from agriculture, from all branches and districts. I'm ready to talk to you in an argument, with data concrete, and thus cross arguments and thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35682	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35683	Thank you. I'm just going to put out a brief statement that actually the minister mentioned here, and I need to react. First of all, you said you've been working on the theme of national parks since the beginning of your term. (Snežana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, from the place: I deal with all the topics within... To all topics, okay, among other things means national park theme, then you said you weren't competent, you didn't have enough knowledge, experts to know about environmental protection sitting around you, you didn't. You're for agriculture, so I'm asking you a question in the field of agriculture. Then you said, "You're transferring to me, in fact, that I'm saying something casual." But you're the one who's talking casually. So you're saying, in fact, you've taken over the issue of what was done in the previous years. Did you take over, or did you work, or did you not participate in it at all, or do you know nothing about national parks? So, don't amputate me to your opinions that differ in five sentences. Secondly, you're saying that there's been some flat-rates here on my side, unchecked data. Well, you see, when I'm getting ready for the topic or for environmental protection, or any issue of agriculture, I'm being supplied by experts. Some of these experts are the ones you're working with. Then I don't know if they're lying, or if they're taking out the flat-rate data, or if you're living in error, because you haven't memorized the timely and timely data. Besides, you're talking about 14 laws. Here, I can't wait, I hold you to say that in the fall session there will be all 14 laws in this area, and I hope everyone could hear, and that is, they're finally going to start something in agriculture and in terms of legal regulation. You talk here, probably respecting me, a lot of talk, a little know-it-all. Then I'll add that there's little to know and even less to do. Also, you said previous ministers didn't work. That can't be your excuse. You're a minister now. What they didn't do, that's why they're ex. He who doesn't do well always becomes an ex, no matter what time he's at his disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35684	Miss Babic, I'd like to ask with a little more respect for the government's representatives. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35685	I absolutely didn't say the previous ministers didn't work. They worked very hard, but unfortunately, their mandates were short. That's what I was gonna say, so they didn't make it. We can't start all over again. When we get a new one, it means everything that's been done until then doesn't work, we're going from the beginning. I have simply taken over the work of professional bodies, the work of these people who have dealt with national parks since 2010. We kept doing that job to finish it. We have obtained opinions from several institutions, more individuals with the aim of reaching the most competent, or best proposed law. By the way, I know a lot about national parks, I'm not an expert on national parks, you're right, I'm an agricultural expert, and that's for one segment of agriculture. There's no universal expert, you know it well, especially in science, but I've worked extremely hard to adopt what experts do, and that wasn't hard for me, given that I'm a scientific worker by profession. So I think it's just a misunderstanding. I want to talk and I want a proper dialogue. This one on your side, let the other judge whether it's correct enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35686	I thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mr. President. Golden Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I come from Somboro, who is otherwise known for owning a special nature reserve of the Upper Danube, and we do not find this subject unknown. In my midst, I am proud to say – the awareness of the importance of environmental protection is on one decent level, but of course it is necessary to further increase and cultivate. We looked at this law with serious interest precisely because in the natural heritage of every country and people, national parks take a special place. These are areas of exceptional natural and cultural historical importance, which we have just proven by speaking about the National Park of Fruska Gora. They mean one of the highest forms of environmental protection. The national park is by definition an area owned by a state in which it is mostly protected from human influence. When we speak – mostly protected from human influence, we primarily think about those bad influences, devastating influences, and certainly should not be protected from human concerns. So we're obliged to care for national parks as a society, as a country that's happy to own them. There are 25 parks in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, five of which are owned by Serbia. Management of national parks is not an easy task and it is not easy to organise, but we have heard the being and property legal problems. This law has quite clearly defined the obligations, the state's relationship and, above all, what belongs to a very detailed national park, which has also increased the area of protected areas. If we could put the whole country in a protected area, it would be best, but it can only be one way, when we raise our awareness of public good and public interest. This is, of course, the task of the whole society and of doing so tirelessly and constantly. National parks are extremely important and care for them helps to preserve nature from the bad influence of man, and yet for the benefit of that same man. Never like this modern time, nature was threatened by man's exploitation, and he never needed it again. So we welcome this set of laws that will help, first of all, to raise at least our awareness of the public good. But I have to say that it's not the subject of this law and the problem of this ministry, we've been missing that consciousness in all the fields for a long time, and it's being read in society. Society pays exactly the price. The National Parks Act is just one small step to contribute, and I welcome it as just one positive step that will help. National parks, along with all protected zones and protected areas, are something that contributes to the development of the economy. Tourism is an economy, traffic is an economy. That's why national parks are national. They should be not only a public good that we will be proud of, but also a public good that we will cultivate in order to launch all other economic resources and allow us to develop as a society, to be attractive in the broad social community, to make our own planetary attractive to all come to see our national parks that have envious natural resources to their biodiversity and their natural beauty. Therefore, in order not to repeat what my colleagues are but only about national parks, especially the Fruska Gora National Park, which is in Vojvodina, where I come from, so all this is already known. The new Serbia has carefully looked at this law, we have found no objections where we would have submitted the amendment, although I think the SVM parliamentary group has given a very constructive amendment and that it can be accepted. By doing so, we will support a set of laws in the voting day. Thank you for having the chance to say this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35688	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the parliamentary group, MP Nevena Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35689	Thank you. A respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, since we've already heard a lot of definitions about national parks, I wouldn't repeat myself and I wouldn't bring up any more, but I'm going to try to specify the debate even though it went a little bit out of the field of environmental protection in agriculture which is an extremely important topic, but for today. The draft law on national parks is on today's agenda and the JS parliamentary group will certainly vote for this bill in the voting day. We as a country, the minister has already mentioned, we have a long tradition when it comes to nature protection, which is evidence of Dušan's code which contained Article 123, which defined the possibility and banned excessive forest cutting in the then Serbian Empire. This bill, which today is ahead of us, is specifically aimed at a more orderly way of managing national parks, and with proper application and people will contribute to the preservation and development of our rich natural heritage. The important changes that this law will make are the introduction of an expert advice that should provide plans and programmes for the management and protection of national parks, as an additional body, a user's advice will be introduced to represent interests and tourism, hunting, fishing organisations with one representative, but the interests of farmers and NGOs will be represented there. It is important to mention that in this system the driver is the one who will have the highest jurisdiction. What is obvious is that we have taken over the European governance model, which is a good condition that we are not only taking over the model, but also the way it works. First of all, I think of the sustainable use of resources and the finding of creative ways for managers to provide additional resources for their work in order to achieve, for example, educational programs, scientific camps and the like. At times of crisis, we must bear in mind that there is always the possibility of using and selling resources in order to obtain additional funds, and I hope that the ministry, in view of that, will carry out detailed checks on how the manager reports and also on-the-field checks. I have one specific question about the proposal, I hope that someone from the ministry will be polite, more relevant to the interpretation of the member, which is a member of the 15th that says – objects for which no fee is paid for the use of the national park under the law governing the protection of nature and which seem to violate the properties of the national park, which are the property of the legal person, entrepreneur or natural person, are subject to charges for occupying space in the national park. It is not 100% clear to me what is meant by the appearance of an object that violates the properties of the national park and how much I understand the introduction of a new tax for such same facilities that until then have not succumbed to a fee for the use of the national park. I'm going to use this moment of address to the National Assembly, because Mrs. Minister is here too, and I'm going to ask for a project to explore the cause of deforestation, which I know was the outcome of saving 330 trees, which is an exceptional success, but I'm interested in -- what exactly is the cause, so what are you, what conclusions have you come to in the research project, because as with man, it's important to treat the cause of the disease? At the end of the discussion on this bill, I would also like to commend the ministry's desire and plan to raise the percentage of protected areas currently at 6.3% to 12%, which, if you do so, will be an invaluable gift to our generations and thank you for that and the JS parliamentary group will certainly vote for this bill. As for the other proposals that are on today's agenda, first of all, I think that the bill confirming the Protocol on the prevention of water pollution caused by navigation under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement, we certainly believe that this law is very good, above all because it is restrictive and because it is real, i.e. It forms systems that will contribute to a high level of control, prevention and monitoring of water pollution, primarily from ships and we also support the agreement we sign, or confirm with the Kingdom of Morocco and with the Kingdom of Hungary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35690	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of Milena Bycanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35691	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with associates and fellow MPs, I will at first say without any doubt that the SDPS of Serbia will support the National Parks Act, as well as all the contracts you offer for consideration and analysis. Of course, the reasons are numerous, and somehow basic, and I'm just a little sorry about these tones we've heard in previous discussions, we're discussing something that our masters are essentially not, something that we were given during this globe of the Earth. We borrowed something that we borrowed and we need to keep to a good degree with goodwill and very responsible at this point, I could say that a million times, we make sure that the natural resources of the Republic of Serbia are used in the best way and contribute naturally to the development of this society, but in every sense very carefully, responsibly, in particular, professionally and professionally with great professional knowledge. We had a debate yesterday on the Tourism Act and I would say that in the general population of the national parks, national parks are just being recognized through tourist destinations that are within these continents. This branch of the economy is, of course, significantly younger than anything that exists within a national park, but it is not insignificant, I would say, not only because of the profits it generates as a business branch, but above all because it contributes naturally to the spread of knowledge and knowledge of the features of a national park that can be a motivation for maybe future education or some new work, etc. So, of course, yesterday, the law had something to do with today's debate. But what I'm kind of worried about in all of this, it's still an insufficiently clear play of the total civilizations today, and I can also tell our society how important it is to preserve nature and natural resources. We still have the habit of saying that primitive societies relyed on renewable energy sources and therefore their economy was limited, but I'm afraid that maybe in the far future the time will come that exactly the societies that rely only on those few renewables, which still exist, will call primitive societies, while some others will create an alternative and we certainly have to think about it. A lot of damage has been done to nature. It's quite a great idea that at one point in our civilizational development as a country, we have defined certain continents as national parks, which means that we have had enough knowledge, expertise and enough specific sensitivity so that we can recognize the plant and animal world and all the characteristics of the area in which they are located, that we have given one specific value, that we want to preserve it, but what I think we are somehow forgetting, that's the local population that lives within these areas. These are people who know the areas best and in the best possible way can be co-workers in preserving and caring for national parks, as the controller predicts. The law is pretty clear. I don't believe there's a perfect law, because if I were to say there's a perfect law, I'd say -- it's all stopped, it's over, nothing new is going to be created, and that's the perfect moment. I believe this law is in line with the directives we discussed. We have Chapter 27. We had a conversation on an integrated license. We know how important all of this is because we can be proud of Gerdap as our largest national park as much as we want and say that 10 to 15 thousand birds who have a last name come there annually, but if something happens in neighbouring Romania and all the way through as far as we need them to come to us, we will lose that mark and the quality of the national park, which means that the topic is of general importance. We are all networked and that is why it is important to implement the content and preparation for the opening of Chapter 27 and it will just enable this continuity of real concern and protection of living space, and then we will probably be able to protect other areas in RS territory with some other specific measures because scientific knowledge will spread, environmental science is no longer just a science based on knowledge from natural sciences. It's a science that implements in itself the knowledge of social sciences. It is a science that has become a philosophy, a way of life that simply needs to form an ecological solidarity among people. This ecological solidarity is probably formed through all these links of the scientific community that we are part of and I really hope that this law will contribute. I am very glad that there is a counsel from the users of national parks. Once again, I say it is very important because of the people who live there, who must have access to information, who must have enough space to influence, by law, the recommendations, the content that will be implemented there in any of the points set by the objectives of the law. I just don't want their role to be limited to a member of the law that says the manager can invite them to, say, that kind of assembly and consultation at least once a year. Because if it remains that way and if it remains to be managed, or who will be appointed governor of the national park, there may not be enough sensitivity and some special skills for that kind of communication, I fear that the knowledge and experience of the people living there will not be used enough, and I honestly believe that they are the best guardians. I honestly believe that, and I'm sure that's the way it is. What I would also like to commend, Minister, is the very title of the report that the manager should submit. Of course, we've heard there's both a management plan and an annual plan, etc. The report is called – Report on the state of natural resources and the work of created values. This very well points to this need to constantly follow this living world, in any way to formulate it. I don't want my exposure to a biology class or zoology or anything. So, first of all, we follow and we have this expert team, which also cooperates with the controller and which is of absolute importance to preserve biodiversity by scientific standards of what is possible today and what is predicted to be as such by the work of created values. This is the influence that a man will do, I hope with one strict, truly absolutely strict respect for all legal procedures, and we will have the opportunity to preserve national parks, we will have the opportunity to have clean air, drinking water, we will have living conditions. The only question I would ask, in terms of whether it's being considered, because this law is now not proposing it, it's a question of forest management within national parks. The European experience is that forests are cared for by others, so to speak, by public enterprises, that they are excluded from the management structure of national parks, and given, of course, all the weight of the work. Of course, the woods don't have enough, we heard. I hope that the ministry will also help in this regard to the areas that are looking for it. But I simply wonder if there is any thought that the management of forest land within national parks will one day, when possible, be singled out because of its importance that the forests bring with them, which, to the greatest extent, make up the territorial majority of the ecosystems of all our national parks? That's it, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35692	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go, Mr. Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35693	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, Ms. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we will in principle state that the Social Democratic Party-Green Serbia-Together is asking for Serbia to withdraw this legislative proposal and that is the only thing that can be done today and the only thing that would be right when we talk about the proposed law. The argument is too much, but this bill is actually talking about the bulk of the administration, about a huge ministry that cares about two major areas and a few very important areas, so to speak, not wanting to derrogate forestry and water industry in the area, but of the four strategically important things for development and for the preservation and protection of a country, we have all this in one. We have a law that looks more like a declaration and a list of good wishes than the law. The first question that is being raised is why before this law were not passed in the assembly procedure and why are we not considering the system laws, which the minister said would change, but they are not in harmony with each other at this time? We've had this practice for the last four years, to pass laws that are opposite to each other and that don't support each other. The environmental law is one of the most obvious examples that we have abolished the fund with the decree of a picturesque minister, who unfortunately is no longer in Serbia's political life. On the other hand, the Environmental Protection Act has not been amended and continues to treat the Environmental Protection Fund. This law doesn't have any sanctions. It is known that when we talk about environmental protection, there is no protection without ban and without restrictions. This is a law without any sanctions and in connection with it and is contrary to the Nature Protection Act, with Article 30, which says that the national park protection measures and the way it is used are determined by a special law. If this isn't the special law, there'll probably be some special law coming one day. This declarative story about the bill that we are talking about today is, let's just say, nothing but one, and the other discussions were also directed in this philosophical-lir approach to legislation and in some ideological sense. That message was sent by everyone, she's very beautiful and I agree with her, but this law opens up a bunch of problems, and we don't close any problems. When there are no sanctions in the concept of one law, it does look like only a declaration of good intentions. We also have a thing to do with the management plan and the management program, to say, should not and should not be adopted unless previously discussed the recommendations of the user council, but it is essential that this law should be withdrawn today, that the bill may look better when it comes to the Nature Protection Act, if we talk about system laws. But if we're talking about roof laws, environmental law and the Nature Protection Act are certainly the previous laws in relation to the National Parks Act. For Green Serbia, it is not a matter of the number of laws that is crucial, but of how potential problems are solved. We in the past have countless problems that are repeated, repeated year after year. We have administrations, we have authorities, we have governments that do nothing but bring in plans and bring in civil-building programs. Master, I mentioned it earlier, the state of wild construction destroyed the Old Mountain while he was Minister of Finance, working with his masters at the Nature Protection Institute. I'm sorry there's no director of the Nature Protection Office today. Maybe we can hear something more concrete about these problems. Unfortunately, since we have devastated and destroyed the Old Mountain, since this law does not restrict anything, nothing in particular determines, we are on a good path to destroy what little remains of these national parks. We can, to say, talk about a lot of these problems, have a problem with the Char Mountains and the National Park, have heard about some problems of the National Park "Fruška gora", but not to burden this debate on national parks and environmental protection, I will not potential the problem of the Char Mountain. It is clear that, unfortunately, we do not have any authority there and that she is probably left to herself where she is. Perhaps it would be good if we had introduced clear sanctions with this story of the law, and in fact we would not have come to the story of wild construction and the legal certainty of investors. If you don't have clearly defined rules of conduct, of course it's not legal security. You're talking about legal certainty, but when investors look at this law, they don't see any guidance on what they can do and what they can't do. Don't tell me that the national park will bring in strong enough, strong enough and convincing enough sanctions or restrictive measures when we talk about the National Parks Act. We think, Green Serbia thinks and thinks that these things should be found in this law. Anything that you leave to lower-ups to work, that's how you derogate one law, and this law really remains a list of good wishes. We think that it should not be left behind, what should have been explicitly banned, and that should have been found in this law, should not be left to any lower acts, especially if we are in the process of fighting corruption, fighting wild construction, fighting the usurpation of public space, at least declaratively speaking in our public. That's why it's important to us, and these things should be found in this bill. I repeat that we believe that the most elegant solution of this moment is to withdraw this law, to bring it into line with the new law on nature protection, and then together two, three, four, five of these legal proposals are to be sent or brought to the Assembly and then we could discuss. All we had to believe in this government is word for word, and we have no reason to believe that it will be harmonised, even in the light of compliance with EU rules, that there is, of course, no harmonisation, but that harmonisation is achieved through the Law on the Protection of Nature and Sublaws under that law. Unfortunately, you've already had one argument, when we talked about the laws on biocidal products and the laws on chemicals, I believe that this is not about your failure or your ignorance, but simply and then we had some argument that was in place until 2011, not about the changes to those laws. And even then you didn't answer that question, I don't expect, of course, today to answer most of the essential questions. The present proposal ceases to apply the provisions of Articles 6 and 7 of the current Law, and in this way we come into a very ungrateful situation and it seems to me that lately, when we talk about protecting the environment, we are making laws for investors, and we are not making laws for the state and protecting the interests of public property, public space and the interests of citizens. In support of the need to tighten some sanctions and to explicitly define them, I have another question - is poaching outside the national park equal to a misappropriation of poaching in the national park? By my logic, it's not. But we don't have that precise anywhere. Not only do I mean hunting, I mean fishing and any kind of poacher or is these fruits from nature, is the usurpation of these fruits in the national park or their exploitation outside the national park equal to the violation? In my opinion, it's a major offense in one case or another, but it should be held accountable to every crime in the national park. Why? It's a question I repeat. Why aren't some activities prohibited by law? Why aren't they precise? This law, unfortunately, brings a lower degree of protection than the previous law, although I don't think the previous law was anything particularly good. When we show criticism to the authorities in these four years, Green Serbia does not think that perhaps some previous government was significantly better. We're talking about what's been done for these four years right now. Unfortunately, nothing has been done in these four years to protect the environment. All postulates of environmental protection have been demoted. I am sorry that the effort you are making is without results, because this area must be too large, very important and the problems are waiting for us in other sectors – forestry, water industry, I would not even talk about agriculture because it is not a topic today, but environmental protection, financing environmental protection has been unintended for four years. We have been usurping dedicated funds from pollution charges that have been used non-purposely for four years. In 2012 and 2013, the “Nikola Tesla” thermal power plant from Obrenovac paid two billion dinars of dedicated funds, fees that went into the budget. Under the Environmental Protection Act, 40% of those two billion were to return to Obrenovac. 60 million dinars have returned to Obrenovac. So someone usurped the money of the Obrenovec, someone usurped Bor's money, someone usurped Panchev's money, someone usurped the money of the Lazarus. These are not budget funds, these are strictly dedicated fees that are usurped. We live in Serbia today, which is filled with environmental problems. Just because there are no problems in the regime media, the regimeal media, such a strange word, if there are other media today that are not regimeal, that there is nothing in the media about Bor, doesn't mean that there is a melting room in Boro and it doesn't mean that people don't get asthma, bronchitis and obstructive diseases. And how they get sick and a protest that had over a thousand people wasn't and hasn't been recorded on any of the media. But it's not today's topic, although everything in environmental protection can be a topic or it is a topic. We're talking about national parks. We have a situation that some of the national parks look like national parks, but we also have a situation where the Kopalnik National Park looks more like Kaludierica than the National Park. Now, it's a tragedy of this society, it's a tragedy of this country. As a result, these neoliberal laws, which do not respect nor postulate the protection of the environment, or postulate the precaution, or postulate the green economy and the circulatory economy, are adopted. Investment and capital cannot be the only right and only star of leadership, and especially cannot be in a government where more than half of the parties, at least declared, belong to the Social Democratic Corps of the Party. We have it that, among other things, there are no adequately trained guard services on the Kopalnik. Unfortunately, no sublegislative act has defined the specific technical provision these people should have. National parks do not fully support scientific and research work and professional work. That's what you could hear from colleges and research institutions. You have the first protection zone that you're changing, the one that I don't pronounce a name to, to make a ski course in the first zone of protection on the Kopalnik, we're changing borders, and in that first zone we should just be doing scientific research. If you think money is everything in that way, it's the current money. The money we're talking about here and the capital that we're talking about, the capital we're supposed to take care of is natural capital, environmental capital, and believe me, a thousand nickel mines doesn't have the value of a Forest and the natural capital of the Forest. Unfortunately, there is no real monitoring of species and habitats, and that is, you agree, a very important thing for the first zone of protection. Very often, it is not adequately managed by the population species of flora and fauna, and all of this data, all of this research should be done for at least 10 years. What's a frantic thing for me is that no national park has an employee graduated biologist in excess of two. They're not national parks, they're not forest cuttings, they're not forest management. National parks are protecting nature and improving the quality of nature. Green Serbia is closer to the concept of a European way of managing national parks. For us, a good part of the American concept is unimaginable, both the European concept and the EU concept that we strive to talk about is that environmental protection cannot be below economic gain. The economy and the economic market of the economy cannot exist and cannot exist unless it meets all environmental standards. We can be competitive because we will derivate all environmental standards, but then we will not have healthy citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This story about sustainable resource use, maybe we could slowly change it so we can see if we're talking about resources that are exhausting, that can be exhausted and whether it's flora and fauna and whether it can be rational or sustainable, but, let's just say, we're not getting into these things now that are defined, we can't even talk about a law here that, I say, doesn't predict sanctions, we can't, we can't do it because there's no definition. I also have a specific question when it comes to the Hive. The special purpose plan of Kopalnik has been amended and it is interesting to say why it has been amended, is this the need of investors and is the need of investors assumed by the National Parks Act, the Nature Protection Act? Will anyone now, in any way without public participation, be able to come up with a plan and define all these vaguely defined legal provisions, and are zones, changed zones, first, second and third stages of protection, and are special purpose plans for the Bather's limited activities prohibited or allowed? It just seems to me that with one of these complicated approaches just brought legal uncertainty, we've just come out to meet that we can make problems. That's why the U.S.S.S.S.S. is demanding the withdrawal of this bill, so that when all the laws systemically and roofly come to the agenda, we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35694	Time, thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35695	Thank you. Here, Reverend, you've run a lot of topics and you haven't been following up on a logical trail, so I've been writing my notes and I don't know which one to start with, but let me start from the beginning, as you were saying. First, you said - the National Parks Act should be withdrawn for reasons that the law is not in line, i.e. it should wait for the Nature Protection Act and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Environment. Now I have to, maybe it'll be a little boring for someone to repeat for the third time, that we've been doing more laws in parallel because we haven't had enough time to wait in view of the accumulated problem that needs to be dealt with legally. We couldn't wait for the poor law to end, so let's do the other one. So these are laws that were made parallelly. This law is in line with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act and with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Environment. These two laws we mention will be, I say again, in the assembly procedure very quickly so that you have no reason to have it as an argument for you to withdraw the National Parks Act. So it's fully harmonised, it's just a technical question what this law has come up with before compared to those two laws. So we were just doing everything parallel and taking care of what you said. You have now looked back on building in national parks, investment, etc., meeting some domestic foreign investors etc. I want to say that the very reason why we initiated the early completion of the National Parks Act is to preserve national parks. As you know, the main reason for the adoption of this law is to identify precisely on the ground the boundaries of national parks and within them the boundaries of the area, i.e. areas marked with the first, second or third degree or protection regime. So, with this law, first of all, we want to preserve what we have, so that it doesn't come to a situation like it used to be, that some object is where it doesn't belong or where it's going to bring down the natural environment, I don't know, eco system, etc. So, with this law, we simply put things under control when it comes to construction. The spatial plans that have been made for the areas of municipalities that are part of certain national parks must follow our law. And that's why it's extremely important and it's a good thing that we've managed to get to these limits, so that we can figure out what these are areas with the first protection regime, with others, etc., so that local self-governments can work out detailed plans because they have to respect our plan. You say - this law does not matter because it does not involve sanctions. It's not true, the law means sanctions. The sanctions are contained in the Nature Protection Act on the one currently in force, and in the one that will be in the procedure, I hope for a very short time. You're saying now that, simply, how are we going to implement protection here now, how are we going to guarantee conservation of natural values, conservation of eco-systems, habitats, habitat types, wild flora and fauna, etc. I'd like to remind you that this law is precisely in Article 13 that we define the obligation to determine the management plan of national parks. The National Park Management Plan shall be submitted to the Government for adoption. The government is verifying it and it's a ten-year plan. The national park management plan is also prepared by the manager, but also by the expert advice. A little while ago, we said that people are the most professional, competent, competent, competent from that area of the university and from the institute and of course users of the national park, i.e. the advice of the users of the national park. These are therefore farmers living in these areas and representatives of associations and other organisations that are there on the ground and who are interested in the functioning of the national park. Basically, the principles and rules of the profession and protection regimes must be respected, first, second and third, which are clearly specified and which will be identified on the ground under this law in the next 12 months. As far as the question of the Char Mountain is concerned, you've started, and I disagree with you. Char-mount is in our system, we simply treat it just as Fruska Gora, as well as Kopalnik, everything we plan for these national parks we plan for the Char-mount. We have our employees down there, the Republic of Serbia is depriving funds from the budget for both employees and subsidies for the functioning of this national park. So that doesn't stand for your objection. As far as the question is concerned, you've now raised environmental issues, fortunately, you haven't mentioned agriculture, but the environment is. I must tell you, as well as the citizens of Serbia, that it is absolutely not true that the situation in the environment is so catastrophic. We have taken over a lot of problems, a lot of unfinished projects funded by the EU, a lot of projects financed earlier from the Environment Fund, which has been shut down. He did shut down, but you know it was shut down because he didn't have a dinar, so there was no funds in it. We also inherited historical waste, we inherited the Rabbit, we inherited the Stolics, we inherited everything that could have been inherited in this area. But I have to tell you next. In the previous year, therefore, during this government, we have successfully completed two screenings. It's a job that was very important to us and now we're waiting for reports and we're waiting to see what the EU says about the situation, what we need to do, so we can start negotiations when it comes to Chapter 27. And not only have we completed the screenings, we have prepared a very complex post-screening document, where we have accurately specified possible deadlines for the adoption of legal provisions from European legislation, the directive and their integration into our laws, but also for the other, much more difficult part, the part relating to the implementation of the adopted regulations on the ground. We have prepared all of this in accordance with the deadlines that have been entrusted to us, delivered for consideration and, as I said, in the coming months we expect to see what the European Commission will say about this document and in general about our possibilities for further negotiations. You know, and you've been estimating it, and the MPs in earlier councils have been estimating that the question of the environment is very expensive, that big funds are needed. According to the accession strategy, it is estimated that 10.5 billion euros are needed to implement all directives and all regulations, but we are simply optimistic in this area. As for the Green Fund, I know that you often mention it, and not you, but others, I have to say that in these laws that are now going to be discussed, the return of the Green Fund, so that we and this mechanism will establish, in order to finance environmental projects, but above all, I mean projects that are started. Unfortunately, we're going to have to finish them first, and then we're going towards new projects. So the Green Fund issue will be arranged and settled. What I'm trying to say is that it's not true that the condition is worse. The situation is better, and it's much better, precisely because this year we've managed to secure funds. So the government has had enough understanding to identify the specific means to address extremely important issues in the environment, and you know it's about historical, industrial waste, that it's about mine gaps, dating back to five, six or more decades ago. So, everything that hasn't been done so far, we've started. Of course, we're not happy. We want both faster and more, but, simply, that's what's possible at this point, and I rightly want to say that I think that this government and this ministry, in this area, for a period of year and five months, has done as much as possible. More than this really in the environment wasn't possible. And when it comes to preparations for negotiations with the EU, and when it comes to solving the problem of environmental pollution on the ground, you know that we have managed to launch the Rabbit, that we have managed to solve the waste in Šapec, that we are in the First Spark Baric, and ten more locations are about and we have prepared these laws. Today, unfortunately, I hear something I didn't expect, whether the laws on national parks, about protecting nature, or whether it was meant to be something else, I simply didn't expect it, but to know that we did as much in all fields as possible. I especially, as a representative of the Greens, whom I highly appreciate and respect, and I think that very much they can help our ministry in this segment, I simply don't expect you to accept the law, even, more or less, expect you to support us and make your suggestions a contribution to making the quality of the text even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35696	I thank you, Madam Minister. Replica, MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35697	Dear Chairman, Madam Minister, I don't have to have understanding, especially I don't have to have understanding for someone who doesn't solve problems. You answer to me in futur, you say this law is in accordance with a law that is yet to come. We're playing with the MPs here a little bit. You've been careful to comply with the Nature Protection Act, which you'll only give us a lot of credit for. It's a very nice formulation, I'd like it to be found on some show it deserves. The Act on the Protection of Nature, in Articles 30 and 35, states that “measures on the protection of the national park and the way it is used are determined by a special law. ” What is this special law? I'm sorry that this Serbian government lives on television. I am sorry that you look at the state of the environment and do not travel through Serbia to see the state of the environment in Batocina, Užic, Bor, Majdanpek, Zrenjanin, Obrenovac, Lazarevec, Smederev, Pancheva, etc., etc. that we may not mention the Vojvodian cities. We do not need the Government to give any special means or to be merciful to the protection of the environment. There are means that are dedicated, which are fees, which are only, and can only be used to protect the environment and are tenfold greater than what the Government has graciously given us. I don't mind even calling up a session where I'm going to have a nice talk about you, there's a lot of things and nice things to say about you, but it's got to be a special session about beauty.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35698	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35699	You didn't listen to me very well. I said, when it comes to sanctions, that they are in line and with the current Nature Protection Act, as they are in line with the law that will reach the assembly procedure. So we've done nothing wrong, and with a valid one, and with this one that's going to be an amendment to the current law. I agree with you that you are not satisfied with the state of the environment. I'm not happy either. I think it should be much better. But just so you know, I'm undermining again, we've done everything we can. We have inherited numerous projects that have not been completed, for which funds have been taken over in the previous years and in the previous period. They got somewhere and they're standing right there. I'll just point out, since I forgot a little while ago – the Big Back Channel. Do you know what that problem is? We tried to turn him off and we cut him off. And it's a lot of projects like that. So, then, when there was funds and there was time, something didn't happen. I won't say and I never want to transfer responsibility to anyone, but I simply ask you to keep in mind that we are not all-powerful. Even if we have 10.5 billion now as much as we estimate that all projects in the field of environmental protection, people, will cost us time. That's why I'm asking you to keep that in mind. The situation isn't catastrophic. The condition needs to be fixed, it has to change. That's why these deadlines are scheduled. That is why the EU predicts it, not for Serbia, so it predicted for all the countries that have joined. So, I don't know, for the matter of garbage, dumps, 10 years, 15 years, for the question of wastewater treatment, too. So we are fully in line with the recommendations of the European Commission. We try as hard as we can, we return the Green Fund, we hope that it will help us finish the projects, because until we finish those projects that the EU has given money for, we cannot get new ones, and not only can we not get new ones, but we are asking for the funds that they have invested in, which we have not finished. And not to talk about those fund projects that were supposed to be funded, which we now inherited, and we don't know how to deal with them. It's just that we didn't inherit a zero, for the common people to say, for a people that's not strictly in this profession, we inherited a minus and that's a huge minus.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35700	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has the mandated representative of the DS parliamentary group, MP Gordana Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35701	Thank you. Since I deeply believe that there is no text without context, I will try to share our comments on the National Parks Bill with you through the context in which this bill is proposed and through the context of where it should be applied. If no change is made, since we have now heard here that the draft laws currently in the debate are in line with the draft laws that are not in place at all. I know you're not going to understand me, but I'm asking you most well-meaningly not to make that argument. That's offensive to the assembly. What, then, all MPs, if the provisions of this law are in line with something that is not in force? It's not just this hall for a vote and it's not even just for folklore in the discussion of who did what and then what happened. This hall, when it comes to this topic, is a context, that together we understand what will look like a policy that's being conducted in national parks for 10 years from today. If we don't understand that, then our misunderstanding is banal, but it's not far-fetched, given the willingness not to actually talk about it. So that's the context. When you make rules in politics, whether you propose or discuss them, you decide to amend them, change them with amendments, so whether you have implemented the legislative authority, there are two kinds of policy rules that you can talk about. They're the first regulations to change social relationships, to change relationships between people. These are your Criminal Law, Family Law, Social Ageing Act, Poverty Reduction Strategy. So these are your laws concerning the relationship between men, and you list among them what is laughing, what is not to be done, what is desirable, what is not desirable. Other kinds of laws are laws and regulations that change space. These are the laws that you bring spatial plans to, you say -- there'll be a city here, there's a highway, here a bridge, here a railroad, here a dam, here we'll have exhaust gas, oil, water, here we'll protect. It's laws that change space. What is the context of the law that you brought us? It's the only kind of regulation that must have the characteristics of both. You protect and change space, but you have to change and interact between people within society, people's awareness of why environmental laws are important, the only law that interferes, all these others are divided into two groups. Either you're changing relationships between people or you're changing space. Whether you're building, or you're tearing it down or you're dirtying it or protecting it, it's space. What did you tell us with this bill in general? That you've decided to make a bill to talk about what's desirable. This is shown in the old Serbian "higher full von bi tinking". So how would we like it to look with national parks? I find that a profoundly wrong approach. And I'll explain why. What do I consider to be a good approach? That the laws that interfere like this - I change relationships between people and I change spaces; that exactly what they laugh and what they don't laugh about. You know, if people could protect nature, we wouldn't live in an era of serious climate change, we wouldn't live in polluted land, water and air, that's what people do. We protect nature from ourselves because we don't care about nature for decades or centuries before us. If you have a kind of living thing in front of you that doesn't care what it destroys, don't give us the law they want it to be, it won't work. We need to have regulations about what's laughing and what's not laughing. I will try to show you through a few examples why the law will not bring the results that you hope for and which we see in the provisions that there will be none. The first illustration has already been mentioned. You, i.e. your ministry or minister personally or who is already working on the Government's Rules of Procedure, voted in favour of a decision to amend and supplement the spatial plan of special purpose for the Kopalnik. That decision came into force today. Its first version came into force in April, the second one was voted in the government on 24 September and on 2 October. It relates to the municipality of Raška, Leposavić and Brus. That decision, the government's decision, came into effect today. What do they say in that decision? If we needed a change in the spatial plan in the Kopalnik National Park because there is a new tourist offer, because the existing system of protection makes it impossible to build on the territory of these municipalities and everything would not be so unusual that the original decision that you voted for, the decision and the change of the spatial plan of special purpose did not entrust first to the Ministry of Construction, and then to the private company, by the government's decision. With six million dinars, Hepako company Vračar d.o.o. will finance the development of changes to the spatial plan of special purpose in the National Park of Fruska Gora. The company in the APR since the founding of 20 May 2014, is the business of the company's real estate management for compensation. We're talking about national parks here, you're talking about the text of a law that is, so we'd like it all to look like. Today, the government's decisions have come into effect where the real estate management company, with compensation, fund the development of changes to the spatial plan of a special purpose. That's not what I'm saying. That doesn't work with each other. Who's the legal counsel? Maters Uhael Ali Alebuoni da Eri from the United Arab Emirates, with the founding role of 100 dinars, it is all legitimate, absolutely legitimate both in the APR and all in a row. What I dispute as a result of this legitimacy is that by the decision of my government which today came into force eight days after the publication in the "Official List", the private company Hepako will finance the development of changes to the spatial plan of special purpose. They say, "What do you suspect of this firm's good intentions?" I don't care about their good intentions. I want responsibility and I want the ethics of responsibility from my government, from us to find an answer to the question – and why is this company that manages real estate for compensation giving money to make changes to the national park's spatial plan? What are they? Donors? Filanthropy? Church people? They got extra money? So, six million, let's let someone there, they say, be in public debate for 30 days. We have a deep misunderstanding about decisions like this. We have a deep misunderstanding about what a public-private partnership is in the field of environmental protection and in the area of national parks. These things have happened before. So it's not a public-private partnership – give it to me, it's mine, I saw it first, I have a public position so I'm making personal arrangements whatever I want. It's not a public-private partnership. This is a very serious thing. I do not question anyone's bad intentions because I do not have the ability to believe in "my mother" in someone's good intentions. I am here to ask and get answers about what Hepaco wants from Kopalnik National Park and why my ministry has environmental protection in its work, why it does not respond and why it voted for such a thing? Another example of context and that's your context, we can exchange data, I wish I were you, I would be pleased that there are MPs in this assembly who know the situation in the environment to detail. I would never allow myself to be disrespected by a sentence – there was no dinar in 2012 in the green fund, as I would never allow myself to say that the situation is much better, and there is no chemical agency, and we do not know where the money went from – a pay polluter. We're different people. You have your right, I have my right. Another example, Fruska Gora National Park and a problem that does not solve this law, because it is, what we would like to be, and not what is laughing, what is not to be. They returned the land to the churches. I voted yes. What's been taken from the church, it's time for him to come back. The church now says, with land in the national park, it's ours, you don't have any business here. What are you going to do now? What are you going to do with hectares in national parks owned by the SPC, and someone out there sees us from the government or opposition, there's enough of us, and too many of those who ask – do you know who I am, what you can do to me, and the church says – I do it in the Fruska Mountain National Park, whatever I want. In this regard, what is one of the amendments to these laws, which falls within the worst register, is to abolish the jurisdiction of the province's inspections. Why? It says – so will the future Nature Protection Act. I'll ask again why? Either the answer will be, or it has been so far – it will all be as it has been so far, the ministry can't do it without the circuit inspector, only now will it say that the ministry is doing it. It's unreasonable, irrational, unnecessary, because how-so that system inspection is better when you have, as you have a regulation that controls the work of all inspections, but when you leave people on the ground, and so few of them are doing what they need to do. Not to mention that this National Parks Act is before us as if there were no previous law nor as if there was no history of managing national parks in Serbia and in what is the defence of the law, which is legitimate. What the government is going to say or the government's authorized representative, it's all legitimate, whatever you want, defend whatever you want the law. It's a shame in common if it's done without data or by heart. There is my observation, I would not speak in this Parliament – these provisions are in line with a law that is not at all in the procedure of the Serbian Parliament. It's unproductive, but it's your right. I don't blame you here. What's my third story about the context is that national parks in Serbia and this law and here in the debate, we're not talking about national parks, we're talking about where and what pollution, damage, permanent or temporary, who cares, why. It's not the theme of national parks. The theme of the National Parks Act is that we want the national park in the current boundaries of spatial plans, old national parks and maybe some new ones that we'll decide to exist, what they'll look like in ten years. There was never a word about it in this congregation. Don't understand this is my criticism of the government. That's what all governments do, and unfortunately most of them do. We don't have a dialogue that's focused on the future, and we don't have a dialogue about the subject. We have a dialogue -- it's your fault, we have a dialogue -- it can't be done, I'm sorry, it's maximum and it's great, it's never been this good. It's not a dialogue. But, I understand, everyone chooses how they talk and how they communicate on the subject. It is my right to share with you the offer I have. That's what the Kopalnik National Park will look like in seven years from now? What's it gonna look like? What will be the ministry's duties when it comes to building, changing the spatial plan of special purpose and being held at a public hearing in Brus, Leposavic and Rasko. Do you really think people who don't know what this is about when they read something like that? Do you really think anyone has the right to say nothing like that? In Lepasavić you will have a public debate about what she ordered and paid for the company Hepako doo? That Kopalnik National Park isn't all our concern at all. If we do not have a proposal here that when it comes to the Minister having an idea that together with one part of the Republic of Serbia, which we are establishing normalisation with both Montenegro and BiH, we have a common plan for the future, then we do not essentially have a debate on what kind of topic I would like to be the subject of national parks. Not to mention protected waters and protected fish species. Citizens launched a petition to save water and sports fishing in Serbia. It's not just about water resources in national parks, and it does. That's why I'm telling you. If we weren't lying to each other, I'd be happy to have someone here to talk to him about who went to, say, all the water resources in the national parks in Serbia. He knows where they are, there's no sign of them, but I know where they are, he asked people, so they took me. So, when you have a citizen petition saying that poaching is on the rise, that endangering protected species is on the rise and asking to talk about it, to talk about how to protect sports fishing, as sports fishing should be, but also water in Serbia in general. They are otherwise part of your ministry's duties. But now I'm talking about water resources inside national parks that we all know where they are located and how they're managed. Let me conclude with the beginning of a sentence on what's the context around which I'm making this text. The context is that we change the perspective we are used to when it comes to lawmaking in this congregation. There may be no ear in some other sectors that would hear such a suggestion, but somehow perhaps for no reason whatsoever, I have confidence that in the field of environmental protection, if nowhere else, there are people who will hear and understand what the difference is when you make provisions in the fields of these regulations and all others, and I don't make priorities, or what's less important. It's different. For the laws you've just announced, I think I can share an impression with you. I want you to enter a bill on the protection of nature so that we don't have a single debate, no one between us, that we don't have a debate – I'm right, you have no idea, but that we are having a debate about what the new Nature Protection Act will do to make Serbia look like in 2020, as I would like the debate on the National Parks Bill to look like. I have my estimates, you have your estimates, and no one happier than me in this room if we talk about it, and if it turns out that my judgments, which for many are not optimistic, absolutely do not stand. Much more important than that, the people who listen to us would understand what it would look like in 2020. For everything else that has been expressed as difficulties in the functioning of the ministry, this is a moment for the ethics of responsibility. Both you and the previous minister were warned – do not cancel the Chemical Agency, do not cancel the Fund, do whatever you want, do not play with institutional matters because of personal accounts. Deal with all the people you want, don't count on the rule of law. Now, in September and October, after Serbia's report on Serbia's readiness, we will have a return. I won't talk about it when we return the Fund or when we return to the system of those institutions that need to be in the system of protection, but I won't stop making a request, a proposal, a request, to the people of the environment. Maybe it sounds paradoxical. There is no one more suitable, more willing, I think with more knowledge and will to advocate the real rule of law than the people of that sector. When that happens, when the topic is done, then we will see that the dialogue in this Assembly is something that can be quality and to the benefit of those for whom we are all sitting together in this Assembly, which is citizens of the Republic of Serbia and generations that may not yet be born, and which we owe to national parks in better shape than we have found them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35702	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35703	I will take a brief look at the remarks made by MP Komic. In doing so, I can't escape the impression that she really thinks she knows this issue well. She gave me and my associates a lecture. I'm just surprised why we have so many problems when there are those who have been in the system for a long time who have been able to observe and manage better environmental activities, so we wouldn't have to go back to the past today. I have to say that when it comes to the Chemical Agency and the Environmental Protection Fund, which was abolished in 2012, you say that you then turned my predecessors' attention, so you took my attention, and now I'm going to tell you that it's not the exact argument that you're making. It is a abolished Chemical Agency, but all the agencies' powers have been taken over by the Ministry. So, what the agency was doing next, the Ministry. Yeah, it's a broken-down fund. You're saying I said it was lifted because there wasn't any funds in it. It may not be true, but he has been abolished, but that does not mean that the state's funding of environmental issues has ceased. So it wasn't a special fund, but the state has always, so the government has always used its special position to alciate the issues in the field of environmental protection. Now that we're returning the Green Fund again, we just want to say that we're going to paint it in particular, that the state is going to allocate funds to all those incredible Toms. In this way, we will try to, through more funding from donations, from projects that we will implement, from cross-border co-operation, from European funds, the more we fill this fund to address first and foremost the problems we inherited, and I sincerely hope that there will be funds that we can enter into the solution and the problems we have not inherited, but they have not even begun. When it comes to the Kopalnik National Park, I have to tell you that it is not the exact claims that you make that we have entrusted, I don't know, to some company or company or agency that it is building a national park, that it edits the Space Plan. A decision has been adopted to launch and amend the Space Plan for the special purpose of Kopalnik. The members of this working group are representatives of our ministry, and this new law sets out the obligation for the new Space Plan to be in line with the limits that we have set, i.e. with the protection regime one, two and three. It is known exactly what is allowed for which jobs and activities are allowed in mode two and in mode three, since this regime one implies self-preservation and is only used for scientific and research purposes. So, the business plan will be drawn up, the representatives of the ministry will participate and will monitor that the spatial plan is in line with the law that we are proposing today and which should be adopted. I'm going back to that again. This law, these controversial provisions that you point out, as well as some previous MPs, are compatible with a law that is currently in force and with the one that is being prepared. Once again, I point out that we were working in parallel, and we were unable to influence when any law would arrive in the Assembly and when it would be subject to public debate. District inspection - no jurisdiction has been lifted. The jurisdiction of the circuit inspection remains according to this law. It is the jurisdiction under the Nature Protection Act. So inspection, supervisory role, monitoring the implementation of this law remains in the jurisdiction of the circuit inspection. You say, "This is a wish list." We're going from a wish list and we're going to make every effort in the next period so this wish list won't be a wish list. Through sublegal acts and through strict monitoring of the application of these provisions, we hope that the Kopalnik and our other national parks will look as we wish and as they deserve generations to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35704	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35705	Thank you. As regards the decision, the Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the development of the Spatial Plan for the specific purpose of the Kopalnik National Park, No 81/2015, of 24 September 2015 shall enter into force on 2 October 2015. Amended point 10) which now reads – the means for making changes and supplementing the Space Plan is provided by HEPAKO d.o.o. Belgrade – Vračar. How can I tell you, "The Official Messenger". I wouldn’t dare invent such a thing without it in the official messenger. They pay for it to be made. I don't know how to explain it yet. There's an official messenger, so look. About what he's doing, what he's not doing, we've asked a parliamentary question about the Register of Biocidals used after the flood. We never got an answer, because there's no Chemicals Agency. It is your right to see me and as I speak, however you wish, and to say that I have no idea, I don't know, I don't know, and it's my duty to tell you -- you don't have a better ally for the good work of this ministry than I do here. It's your choice to believe it, but not to check it out. A question has been asked about a wild dump from Belgrade -- Novi Sad in a detour for Novi Banovci, twice. Your ministry gave me an answer about the dump at Old Paz. I, as a decent folk MP, said, "It happens, they're wrong, what to do." I've watched this dump grow for two years, and you tell me nothing has changed by abolishing the former institutions. Yes, it is. That I desperately want to establish responsibility and that I don't think that responsibility is established by yelling around – her, her, her... I'm asking you about the Banovs, and you're giving me an answer for Old Paz, that's my choice. When you want an illustration as much as it doesn't work, then I'm forced to answer. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35706	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35707	Dear Members, this quote you've read is just in favor of what I've said. Therefore, there is a decision to initiate the procedure for determining the Spatial Plan. That decision did not come from our ministry, but from our ministry people will participate, our professional services, in respect of the provisions of the National Park Act. Therefore, the spatial plan, no matter who did it or how it worked, must now be in line with the protection regimes that we have prescribed by this bill. Don't mind me, I greatly appreciate and respect you, but I have to say that I'm very sensitive when I'm being asked questions from the environment, because I know what we've inherited, and I've had to face everything myself, and to whom everything is justified for what's not done or bad done. That's what I'd like to sit down with you and show you and see it all. I believe there will be some surprises for you, too. Let me remind you. 2,200 unsolved items from the old fund. People, in 2012, we inherited these items. What do we do with these items? Do you know how many people there must be hired and how much resources they have to cover? Not to go into these internationals, because I just mentioned some of them. As for this question that you have asked and which you have not received an adequate answer, I will indeed do so with my associates to check, possibly, it happens, and you are right to say, it happens that sometimes under-read the question or be under-explained, but if it concerns Stara Paz's dump,. (Gordana Comić, from town: Novi Banovci. New Banovci, I have to tell you, it's good to know you and the other viewers to know. The question of dumps is a matter of local self-government. When we talk about Old Paz, New Banovci, then we have before the Ministry and before the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Autonomous Province. Please, then we need to know what is whose jurisdiction, and what we can do and how much responsibility is ours. So the easiest thing to do is, everything that's not done, everything that's a problem is attributed to this government and this ministry, it's simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35708	Thank you. The word is by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic, the authorised representative of the SNS. Here you go, Mrs Stojiljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35709	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is definitely a very serious and important set of laws in the field of environmental protection today, but just before I start talking about it, I would like to refer to the current course of the debate that just, somehow, went from one extreme to another. We touched the woods, parks, contaminants, and traffic, and climate change, waste. It just shows how wide this area is, and certainly none of us can say it's really top expert, because like you said, there's probably no problem. But it was definitely the extremes of those who went that it was good that we were moving in some direction and that there were some changes going on, so maybe we were learning on our own faults, to those who just felt that it was better to stand in place, like it was with this law for six years, so until there was a smarter solution. In any case, on the Committee we talked, I would like to refer it to the Minister, since she was not present at the time, that is probably what the President of the Committee Dr Blazic will say, that we have simply all agreed that your presence was necessary precisely because we have all noticed somewhere that it would be better if, now where there was a mistake, we had some logical lead that the Nature Protection Act first went, and then to coordinate it, that is, this law with him. In any case, I would like you to have a conversation with all of us on the Committee, simply to see together, because we are very interested, we have an institution "Green Chair", we have a green parliamentary group, a Committee on the Protection of the Environment. So there's a lot of us who want to get involved. The fact is, there shouldn't be any difference here, no party or any other, because it's simply an interest to us. So, this law since 2009, this area of the issues of our national parks that we consider our greatest treasure, what we have managed to preserve, and what we have left, has been defined by the Nature Protection Act, and that is the roof law. You said that some of the provisions still apply, although now this law will come into force. This law, which is before us, covers five existing national parks in Serbia, does not establish any new national park, so these are Fruska Gora, Đerdap, Tara, Kopalnik, Char Mountains, so these five national parks. This new law will set out the objectives, values, surfaces, borders, so listed, management protection regimes, sustainable use, means of funding, then the participation of owners, users and other public in the use of national parks. The aim of this law, as it has always been, and always every law that applies to national parks, will be to preserve, improve the values of biodiversity, that is, the diversity of the plant and animal world, the geodiversity and the preservation of cultural and historical values, which is nothing less significant. So what is even more important is the preservation of the traditional lifestyle and the improvement of the quality of life of people who live in these areas where national parks are located. In that sense, on the issue of MP Comic, who wanted her to imagine what a national park looks like in seven years, I would like national parks to change as little as possible. It'd just be my wish, I'd see a national park like that, and I think that's why we're protecting them. That would be the wish of all of us. That nature writes laws and nature changes national parks, that that's where natural laws apply. So the balance between natural processes and people's activities is exactly what needs to be achieved by this law. I'm going to say something very briefly about national parks, just because of the public, that simple people understand how important it is to protect them, and how important it is to change our own awareness of the value of national parks, because it is our natural national treasure. So, the oldest among them Fruska Gora from 1960, was then declared a national park, spreads to 27,000 hectares, has over 1500 plant species and has about 40 naturalities of Serbia. Fruska Gora, as we have already heard, is the only place in Serbia where the active nests of the cruise eagle, the world's most endangered species, are on the world's red list. Also, no less significant, as I said were cultural historical heritage, which is 16 Orthodox monasteries located in this area, built from the 15th to the 18th centuries. The Tara National Park, which was declared a national park in 1981, has so far been the area of about 19,200 hectares, and by applying this law, something is now changing, meaning it will expand by about 6,000 hectares. We heard that a public debate was held mostly in places near these national parks, and I wish we had some public listening. It is now an invitation that all other laws related to environmental protection, we would simply like all of us to participate, to give a word of our own. So, this decision has caused some of the most controversy, why is it spreading to the Catastrian Land of Zavina? Yesterday we talked about it and there really is an excuse, it's an autochthonous species, a Pancic Uranium that really covers a small area and we have to preserve it. Basically there's an excuse for that, it's about 150 to 200 acres, I don't know exactly, you'll correct me. Everything else, of these 6000 hectares, is in third category, third degree of protection, which still allows to be built, which still allows for some human activity, but now it will be with the permission of the Ministry, which is certainly necessary. Here in Tara Canyons we have over 1,000 plant species. I said Pancic's omoric as endemic character and 20 more similar. As a natural rarity in Tara canyons, we have ancient, Byzantine, Roman and ancient cultures. The Kopalnik National Park is from 1981, at 12,000 hectares it is available and here it is described about 1500 different plant species. We have as much as 91 endemic and 82 subdemic plant species. That would mean rare species that settle very small areas. In the highest habitats of the Kopalnik, there are very rare birds such as the raw eagle, mountain seams, a crossbow. I note again, very briefly I will look back, there could be a lot of talk about our national parks and I simply appeal to the public to inform ourselves that we really see what kind of Serbia has national treasures. The largest national park in Serbia is Djerdap, declared in 1974. It's also called River National Park, because it's mostly crossed by the Danube River. The Đerdapsko settlements more than 1100 plant species, 150 species of birds and very interesting, there we can find otters, bears, lynx, jackals, giants, deer. The cultural historical heritage specifically mentions the City of Golubba, Lepenski Vir, Trajan's tablet and numerous mentions of the markings. Last national park, I put it as the last because it was the youngest, last declared national park in 1993. It's a Char Mountain at 39,000 acres. There are about 2,000 plant species, of which about 20 endemic, local. There are also monasterys of the medieval Serbian state, numerous mentions of the markings, and what I would like to point out is that there are as many as 32% of the total area under the first degree of protection on the Sar Mountain. It's just saying how valuable this area is. Once again I will mention that protected areas, I have found information that about 6.3% of our territory belongs in protected areas. It's really not a big area. It is a small area and we need to keep it and our tendencies are, or the competent ministry to at least double it to about 12% to start, and then we will also go to European standards. As far as the law itself is concerned, there are still three levels of protection. So the values of the limits, the surfaces will be clearly determined. They are replaced in principle by the border of the ‘Tara’ National Park. In particular, it is proposed that the National Park "Fruška Gora" have a protection zone with restrictions on works and activities of a certain measure. Then, they will continue to be managed by public enterprises, as they have done so so far, by the same names of public enterprises and by the right of founders of government, which is also very important, and what is now being introduced and what I personally hope will make a move, so maybe even then we will go towards a better solution, are what the governance plan and the management programme are being introduced. So the management plan will be created on a ten-year level, and through the annual level, the one-year plan will be implemented through the management programme. These two programmes will be agreed by the ministry, which means that abuse in principle will not be possible, because it will be, it will simply be control from the top of the ministry, and also through the bodies that I will later mention, i.e. advice, means with the lowest instances. And somewhere I hope it gives us the solutions that we've seen that this law can meet again. As far as the security service is concerned, it is organized by the manager and by the decisions, by last year's decisions, about the fact that clothes must be one-brave, that it must be recognised who is the guardian of the protected area and because of visibility and because of the promotion of the past, the guard will have official status. So, he won't be able to do the job of a fisherman and a hunter anymore, which was the situation so far. It is very important what we have heard that, by applying this law, abandoned permanent facilities in the area now will be subject to charges for taking up space, so probably all of them and that will be an incentive to get rid of these objects, or their owners will have to remove them, because they will not be worth it. And then here's the decision, and there's probably going to be an amendment, and I've talked about it, and that's this decision that the driver himself can change the traffic regime. It just might take a little more detail in the provision, and that's what we were saying yesterday, of course, with the consent of the Public Enterprise Roads and everything else, so we don't simply get into a situation to put two barricades on the law and say, well, now we've changed the way. But we'll do well to discuss the details. As far as the planning documentation is concerned, we have a spatial plan of the area of special purpose, and further urban plans will be made with the consent of the Ministry. Then the two bodies I mentioned, which will be formed after the adoption of this law, which is an expert advice that will be a professional and consulting body. It will consist of five members who have to be presented with their scientific and professional work and one will be a representative of the manager. These members and the president himself will appoint the ministry for four years and it will be one body that will simply control the work and management and sustainable development of the national park itself. What I hope will make a great contribution is precisely the advice of the user that should be the interests of the local population and the users of the national park itself. There will also be five members of the municipality, a representative of the fishing organisation, a hunting chamber, a representative of agriculture, a tourist organisation and an NGO operating in the area of the national park. The task of this advice will be to bring recommendations, ideas, to propose, but it will in some way be likely to have some control function, if we consider that both the adoption of the plan and the programme will be brought with the agreement of these two advices and expert advices and user advice. So, the supervision of the work on sustainable use will be done by the ministry and the obligation of the manager, in the end, just to say -- to bring these provisions into line 12 months after the adoption, the entry into force of this law. I will take a very short look at the other law that is before us, which is the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Prevention of Water Contamination Caused by Navigation under the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin. And the importance of the Sava River is exceptional for us both because of transit, transport, economic co-operation, and because of a very valuable water eco system. This proves the withdrawal of the Sava River, an abandoned trough which today represents a natural reserve, or Obedska Bar. So our Sava is really a valuable eco system and needs to be kept and used sustainablely. The most important thing for us is maybe this protocol to be confirmed because we're downriver so simply, if we don't protect, everything would somehow come to us and still pour itself into the Danube. That is why this protocol is very important for us and in 2002 the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin was signed, and in 2004 it came into force. Our country has become a signator, a signatories state, but there was simply a need to introduce a Protocol on the Prevention of Contaminants as a result of the need for cross-border co-operation. So four countries are signatories. Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia have already ratified it, and now it remains a task for us and Slovenia, which is ongoing, and should then come into force. What is very important and this is a pretty big requirement for our country at the moment, especially as many environmental expenditures await us, but it is really important, because the aim of this protocol is to prevent, control and reduce pollution from the vessel, then, to determine technical requirements for port equipment, as well as information, measures of response in case of spilling, or pollution, water quality monitoring. So, what does this protocol require? This Protocol will simply require that all vessels have an obligation to collect, store and deliver waste at reception stations, and on the other hand, the ports will be obliged to be technically equipped to be able to carry out the reception of that waste, whether in solid or in liquid condition. Basically, there's a five-year deadline here to bring it all together, so we have time and I think it's really going to come back to life. The Sava Commission will have an obligation to monitor water quality and implement the provisions of this stream. Another law is related to the area of environmental protection. This is the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the timely exchange of information in the event of radiological danger. This agreement was signed last year in July and I'm simply somewhere thinking that that nuclear incident in Japan, the Fokushima definitely drew attention to what could and could be the consequences of nuclear dangers. In principle, proper nuclear power plants and plants are not a danger, but what can threaten are handicrafts and the problem exists with waste disposal, nuclear waste. Because of the public, it is necessary to say that radioactive material has an extremely pervasive ionizing radiation that damages living tissue. It can cause death in some large quantities. That is why the agreement addresses issues – co-operation in the area of radiation and nuclear security, then protection of the population and the environment, the co-operation of the competent authorities, and that is what the objective is. The goal is to implement two 1986 conventions. This is the Convention on Early Notification and the Convention on Nuclear Emergency Assistance, which is the subject of the exchange of information between our country and Hungary, the exchange of results obtained by measuring ionising radiation and the determination of radionuclide content in the environment. I would just point out that it is very important that the Agency for the Protection against Ionian radiation and nuclear security of Serbia has already started in some sense activities on these measurements and this is one very important information that maybe all the citizens have not met, which is that it has started a national campaign of measuring and mapping radons in Serbia. Radon is a natural radioactive gas that can have an extremely bad effect on our health. We're taking it in the respiratory pathways. It can occur by decomposing rocks in other ways, and unfortunately causes cancer. She's in second place after she's had a cigarette. So far, about six thousand detectors have been prepared. People can, fellow citizens can ask questions if this isn't over, if the detectors aren't divided. Who is in the ground floor houses can be measured by radon, which is very important, i.e. radiant radiation, in order to map the radon and see if we are in danger. So, at the end of the year, a chapter is expected to be opened. We expect, of course, that chapter 27 will be opened soon to protect the environment. I think that, no matter how important all the other chapters at this point seem to be, we must be aware that this is one of the most extensive chapters, since about one third of the EU legislation is currently relevant to the legislation in this area. So, I really want to give all the credit for the Ministry, and I want to commend all those who are involved in protecting the environment. I am sorry that State Secretary Stana Bozovic is not with us today, because I think he's really struggling this whole time to make this area live and to manage to follow the pace of the EU. I just wanted to say that we are so looking forward to opening Chapter 27 and we will support all these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35710	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35711	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished minister, the guests, today we are opening a debate on really four important points, four extremely important topics that we can undertake under a set of environmental issues, since we have a very important and very high-quality law, and we have one protocol that also deals with ecology, and we have two agreements that, in part, touch environmental areas. We have heard from previous exhibitors that practically one-third of our commitments to join the EU will be contained in Chapter 27, which practically solves the environment, as it is addressed. I think we'll have a lot of work to do. What we're doing today is adopting, that is, discussing a really quality law, and I'm going to commend the minister's work. We've seen her energy here, and we want to change this situation for the better, and I'm convinced we'll do it. It really is today about, well, I'm talking first about the National Parks Act, one comprehensive law, which primarily wants to regulate a certain situation in those zones. Today, we have about 6% of the area in the state of Serbia that is protected by a certain form and protected and sought to raise practical protection of nature and natural resources. Of course, I would also like to commend that introduction of yours, Minister, in which we have heard and learned a lot, and also that historical part, where we have seen that there is a serious tradition in the country of Serbia, which goes to the 14th century. But we also learned that the pioneers of the real definitions of the law on national parks were Americans, the Western world, and that since the 19th century in Yellowstone, they have moved to Sweden and Switzerland, and that we have also accepted those obligations. Then, in 1923, Triglav was accepted in the old Yugoslavia as a national park zone, and then we in the Republic of Serbia did so with Fruško Gora in the 1960s. Today there are about 7,000 people in the world, this is a new piece of information, and the 90's data was that there are about a thousand and a half national parks, which means that the number has increased and the tendency is to increase the number of national parks. It is also probably a desire to protect practically the areas in which nature, flora and fauna will be preserved and some rare plants, some rare animal funds that are ahead of extinction. That's very good. I said this law treats the topic of national parks primarily through the protection of nature and natural resources. There are a lot of good things, and I really have to say that this is one of the better laws we've had in this House, given its importance above all, but also some solutions. Weaknesses exist in a dictionary zone, a dictionary expression, which is evident, and you will probably adopt amendments quite a change, but globally it is indeed one of the best laws that we have in this assembly. We see, it spreads practical territory, determines, restricts territories and even expands them, which is also commendable. Then, he talks about protection regimes, about the rules of conduct, and he edits funding. Then, the role and participation of the public in the functioning, i.e. local population in the functioning of national parks, etc. Two are the very good measures passed by this law. The first is the adoption of practically one new body, which is the expert advice, which means the establishment of expert consultations by one such expert body. We have seen that it has five members, that it is elected for four years and that even the manager proposes one of those members. It is indeed a way for the profession to have a more concrete share on the ground, since it analyzes projects, gives plans, looks at the state of nature and natural resources on that ground. Another very important thing is to establish the advice of the users of the national park. This enables people from localities, people from local environments, people who live and work practically there, formerly in the region of the national park, to have concrete participation through local self-government, through various NGOs, etc. But for me, it is an extremely important point that, in accordance with the management plan, it gives the government the opportunity to transfer to local self-governments whose territory is practically these reserves, to place certain funds in order to raise the level of quality life of the population in co-existence with these natural conditions, to even finance various activities, activities that will not be at the expense of the national park, and will be in favour of the people living on that ground. Because we need to know that there are a lot of people in the region of national parks and that we can't just protect nature, but we need to find some model, some consensus to allow these people to develop and deal with certain economic affairs, not just growing, for example. healthy food, etc., already one level of economic activity or perhaps tourism. We've had it said today and there really is a problem, Madam Minister, with lack of inspection, Inspector. That's clear and it's not your fault. But I want to be affirmative to say that we understand, since we know some on the ground, I often contact, how many people work overtime and change shifts over the summer, etc., to please and try to complete this gap with their engagement. However, I want you to see our criticism in this regard as our wish and, of course, giving some authority to try to increase the number of these people, because it's really not only a problem with national parks with inspectors, but also outside. I've been sending you a few questions about the preservation of forest land and the preservation of forests in the Sandzak region, Novi Pazar. You gave me a good answer. However, there is indeed great suspicion of abuse in the region of the forest, cutting. Well, you know, there's been a lot of stories in the paper about some forest mob, etc., as well as a number of other topics that could jeopardize our biodiversity, as you say. I'd have one request, since I'm from Sandzak. You know that the cave high has the possibility and has almost all the criteria to declare itself another of these national parks, that it has both its territory and its specialities. You know that over a hundred different plants, which are nowhere else you can find, exist and grow on the Caves, that we have even indigenous animal species, from a special kind of sheep to an extremely rare Indian buffalo, from which is made the so-quality mascarpone cheese, etc. So, there are conditions that the cave highlands are declared a national park and that we don't only have that natural tank Uvac, but that we once have a wide and stronger lever to protect that zone that I really think should be protected and there should be the future of that region in development, in agriculture, and in tourism and in each other. We still have, I said, several significant points today. That's the second point we mentioned, which is, in practice, the signing of that protocol that's very important, about the purity of water, is meant by the Sava River. Waters are now the main resource in the world, they are being guarded and this is an extremely good thing that we sign this protocol after Bosnia and Croatia. Also, I would also like to commend the work of veterinary services, precisely because there was criticism here, because I know people who work at the bar and I know people who work on the Cave and I know how hard they work and I know how hard they work, and even today the contract we have with Morocco is proof of it because Morocco is one of the biggest countries in Magreba. I've talked here many times about halal food and certification and the possibility of us exploiting that market. This agreement that we are adopting today is a real prerequisite, because this is about quality co-operation, exchange of experts, exchange of knowledge, and, of course, one trust that will come between us and Morocco, as a market in which we want to export our meat products. In the end, we also have what is mentioned here, an agreement with Hungary on co-operation in the so-called zone. communication of radio-nuclear hazards. It's another piece of evidence that works well in that cooperation. However, I have to use here for a few more minutes for one question, specifically for you. There have been a lot of people from the Sjenica area who have one serious problem, I will refer it to you as a parliamentary question, that their accounts have been stopped, as they say, because of certain machinations, 260 landlords have blocked accounts, and that's a big deal for them, to give those special bonuses you give to milk. In 2014 there was a problem, as they say, that someone was giving them, since we don't have many herbal pharmacies, people were bringing them some material and resources and giving them false accounts, some of them. Others even say they legitimately bought the goods and that they were getting legitimate bills, but they also blocked the accounts they put in the vault. I would, on this occasion, with no knowledge other than the knowledge that they would be harmed and threatened by their existence...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35712	Your time is up. Thank you. (Muamer Bacevic, from town: Just a minute.) I can't for a minute because we have limited time for everyone. Thank you very much. (Muamer Bacevac, from place: 30 seconds.) Just to ask the minister to reconsider and instruct a certain commission to resolve this issue. Thank you very much. We have to respect the weather so we can take the session properly. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. He's not here. The word is Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35713	Thank you. Dear Minister, the esteemed representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are sometimes laws that we bring here in the National Assembly, when we can expect some positive energy in advance. Just the presence of today's National Parks Act, and when we remember what kind of beauty they are, and what kind of something this Serbia has most valuable in nature, that feeling itself should already produce one positive energy, one debate that cannot contain in itself any demagogy, no politicisation, no foreigners, or anything else that could endanger such a single debate. What we heard here today was also criticism that was in place, and there was something that wasn't. I will first say that this country had the National Parks Act, an extraordinary law, at the end of the 1990s, a law that got all the positive views of all of Europe and that then in 2009, this law would be abolished and the Nature Protection Act, which should, as a roof law, cover everything. We then showed how we think and how we view something that is most valuable in Serbia's nature. Those who then, in 2009, abolished the National Parks Act, are here today speaking and criticising the law that is being set up. I'm not saying he's ideal, he can be much better, but he's better at any law than he's got none. This law has conducted a broad public debate and it is not disputed, but what we have spoken on the board and what I think should be our practice is that these public debates before this law should also be in this Assembly with the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and with the Green Parliamentary Group. The public debate between locals is good, but this country must protect its future, unrelated to what an individual is and what the interest of a local population is. Also, public debate in the Chamber of Commerce, etc. It has its positive side, but the most important thing is that we here, before we come to the bill, we still agree on some concept, essential things, because we get on the committee of the law two days before we discuss it here, a law that we can totally not like. So what do we do? If we try to change it with amendments, often it's impossible because it's the essence of a different understanding and approach to this problem. Then we come into one situation, to keep the peace in the house, we accept some things we may not be able to accept. The fact is, here we're saying that we're passing a law that's a de facto leks specialises in nature protection before the Nature Protection Act, which we're going to be changing in a month, through changes and additions, and we're adapting this law to the one that we're going to change, and we don't know what it's going to look like. He's the one who wrote it, but we don't know. And we'll bring it or we won't bring it. We'll change it for better or worse, for more or less. That's the order of moves. I understand the need of the Ministry to give before some laws that have been waiting for them since 2009, I understand that it may be the Parliament's mistake, that it is in the procedure, when they give all these laws, that something has been put first and something else. But it just proves how much coordination there is in all of this. We had to do it that way and say one of our own opinions. For me it is personal protection of this area in the first place, and secondly there are conditions of use, management, etc. It's the most valuable thing we have, we have to protect it at all costs. It can't be a ski resort without being a national park. No one can explain that to me. This was all about everything and everything. There were words about the fund, so, like, the green fund, now we don't have the green fund, so we lost the green fund. He'll be back, we heard from the minister. But if we get him back so he works from 2002 to 2012, then we better not bring him back, because he used to buy T-shirts and hats, buy buckets, buy carts, shovels. It was all used by this green fund, to print some publications, to advertise through newspapers, but it did not serve in the interest of protecting the environment. Nothing, we had a green fund, and in ten years it wasn't done capitalically in the environment. No dump, no quality thing we could show tomorrow that we've left behind for generations to come. They did some municipalities that only through knowledge or great engagement did it without the help of the state. So, what's the point and what else I want to say. I know there's been a lot of effort here. This is still one shift. Are we and what we're going to do, strategically, when it comes to the environment, we just need to talk about it now. In my opinion, personally, I think we should draw a line and make new laws, and protect the environment and about waste and nature, and then bring this together about national parks, and we have something to start with, so we don't always patch things up. To us, Chapter 27 opens, we are bound, as a country, to show one seriousness, a universal approach, a complete strategy, in an operational way to show that we can through laws and apply that strategy. What I think is good in the law is these tips, expert advice and advice from local users. The expert advice I think is a good thing, it should have been predicted that in this expert council of five people, one must necessarily be from the Nature Protection Office, and the other to be from the ministry, while the other three can already be proposed by the ministry. We can't afford to make expert advice to host some party personnel. Coordination and monitoring must be established, and the Institute of Nature Protection and the consequences of their conditions and everything that follows, if we want this advice to do something of quality. There were stories of volunteering. I'd like to ask that advice not volunteering, because if it does volunteer work, it's nothing. They will come one day, one day people will say what they think, want to help, give their expert opinions, and next time they will not come because they have no interest. We simply have to understand, if we rely on professional people, if we rely on knowledge, it has to be paid. There is no hesitation, no demagogy, no political talk – we pay for the knowledge if we want to keep it the way we have to keep it. The other thing that matters is the advice of the user. I totally support that idea. The user's advice should be in that space that exists and it's a new idea, very good. Because it takes people who live there, who do, to really get involved, because by working and hiring, they might make the biggest contribution to the development of it. This would be what I wanted to say. Anyway, the law is presented, it's something new. There are shortcomings, there are mistakes, as if it were quick, but it's all less important than what is the essence, that we pass one law on national parks that was shut down in 2009 and that in this way, however, through one approach we show our desire as countries to preserve our most valuable possessions in nature, which are national parks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35714	Thank you. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. He's not here. The word has a folk emissary, Marjana Maraš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35715	I would like to point out at the very beginning that the SPS Group will support the proposed National Parks Act, as well as other laws from the second joint principle and uniform search. In my presentation, I will refer to the proposed Law on National Parks and the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Morocco. I would point out that the National Parks Law must be adopted in order to fully regulate the area of protection and development of national parks. In addition, the strategic objective of the Republic of Serbia in the area of agriculture and environmental protection in the EU accession process is to bring domestic regulations into line with EU rules and to ensure a system for the application of adopted laws. Of course, to talk about this law today, we must have a wider picture of what the Ministry has been doing over the last two years. With a strategic approach, an exceptional knowledge of the field of action, as well as continuous work on the ground, the Ministry achieved its annual plan, changed the existing and adopted a completely new legislative regulation, trying to remove all inherited problems, but also to improve the position of our farmers. Just thanks to this work and dedication, first of all to you, Minister, as well as to your team at the Ministry, but also to the entire government, we are now in a position to talk about the National Parks Act, and soon, I believe, we will also talk about the Law on Forests and other laws, the laws that you said were being prepared. In particular, the National Parks Bill more precisely defines protection regimes in the national park, by taxing out activities and works that cannot be carried out in certain stages of protection, which creates greater legal certainty. The obligations of managers are more clearly defined through the implementation of the protection regimes in the national park and the management of natural values, building land, buildings and other immovableities entrusted to management. The development and management, the rules of conduct, sustainable development and funding of the national park are more clearly defined, contributes to strengthening social consensus and the dissemination of awareness about the public interest in nature protection. The bill also provides for institutional and organisational measures, as well as technical and operational measures. Institutional and organisational measures include the establishment of cooperation and responsibilities of all nature protection entities in the process of adopting plans, the basis of programmes, as well as the implementation of projects, works and activities in the national park. The technical measures provide for the establishment and management of the database, natural and other values of the national park. In particular, I would point out that when this law was drawn up, the Ministry consulted representatives of state authorities and organisations, public undertakings for the management of national parks, representatives of nature protection organisations and the non-governmental sector, the scientific and professional public, as well as other stakeholders. Public debates were also held in Belgrade, Donji Milanovac, Sremski Kamenica, Bruce and Baja Basta. As part of my presentation, I would pay particular attention to the National Park of Fruska Gora, because it is the only one in Vojvodina, from which I, as a Member, come. By 1948, the forests of Fruska above were nestled as with economic forests. In the coming year, in 1949, due to the particular importance of the Fruska Mountain area in the Pannonian region, the Government of the National Republic of Serbia established the organisation of the Fruska Gora National Resort, with the task of promoting the complex as a resort and resort. In 1960. The Socialist Republic of Serbia Assembly, a special law, gives the National Expansion a higher rank and puts it under special protection by declaring it National Park. The National Park of Fruska Mountains stretches between the Danube and Sava. In the parallel direction in the south, it has a length of about 80 km and a maximum width of 15 km, while it is 26,672 hectares. It extends to parts of the territory of the town of Novi Sad, the municipality of Petrovaradin, the town of Sremska Mitrovica, the municipality of Bačka Palanka, Beocin, Indji, Irig, Sremski Karlovci and Šid, within 45 catastrian municipalities, the total area, as I said, 26672 hectares, of which 19,308 hectares are in state property, and in private and other forms of property of 7,364 hectares. The first degree of protection covers 3%, the second degree of protection was 67%, and the third was 30% of the area. The Fruška gora National Park was founded for the maintenance of steppe and forest-step habitats, maintenance of forest eco-systems with various types of oak forests, in particular the relative thermophilic oak forest with predators, conservation of habitats and the population of wild flora of national and European importance, conservation of habitats over 200 species of birds, including an eagle cruise, as noted today, the preservation of globally endangered liquid species, preservation of fossil sites, the origin of water and wet habitats, preservation of cultural and historical development of litospheres, preservation of a unique mountainous area with reefs under the forest and slopes, preservation of the Danube River, the origin of water and wet habitats, preservation of cultural and historical monuments with 17 Serbian Orthodox monasteries, preservation and preservation of monuments. Lower parts of the National Park are rich in pastures and fertile land, vineyards and orchards. Due to all the above, Fruška gora is an ideal place for rest and recreation. The main activities of the National Park Fruška Gora are the protection, preservation and improvement of bio-geographical features of the area, eco-systems and diversity of the original flora, fauna and fungi, as well as the prevention of activities that can disrupt the basic features and other properties of the National Park, scientific and research activity, cultural and educational activity, presentation and popularisation of the value of the National Park, design and settlement of the area, as well as the rehabilitation and revitalisation of endangered parts of the National Park. The secondary activities of the national park include breeding, protection, forest exploitation, game farming, hunting organization, fishing on lakes and ponds, tourist intervention, sale of various food game, fish, mushrooms, medicinal plants and forest fruits, not food products, construction, heating and cellulose trees. For this reason, I believe that the adoption of a new law will improve and improve the position and preservation of the National Park of Fruska Gora, not only for us, but for future generations to which we are obliged to preserve such a natural pearl, such as Fruska Gora. As for the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco in co-operation in the veterinary field. It was signed to facilitate the transport of animals and products of animal origin, at the same time to prevent the introduction of infectious diseases and the health of harmful products of animal origin, and to develop cooperation in the veterinary field. It is of paramount importance that the import and export of animals and products of animal origin may be carried out only if the prescribed veterinary sanitary conditions are met and where prior approval of the competent authority of the importing country, or the country through which the consignment is transported, and that information on the occurrence of infectious diseases and any other information relating to the measures and results of the control of infectious animal diseases is exchanged immediately. By confirming the two countries' cooperation agreement in the veterinary field, it should receive a legal framework, creating conditions for facilitating transport and increasing the volume of the exchange of agricultural food products of animal origin. I would like to point out that the confirmation of this agreement is significant above all, for the purpose of enabling traffic control. In order to ensure quality and smooth work of veterinary and customs authorities, to ensure traffic control, we also need continued co-operation of competent authorities in both countries. Therefore, the application of this Agreement should contribute to a safer and easier placement of our product on the Moroccan market and vice versa, as well as to allow traffic control and greater access, i.e. Exports, foreign markets and certainly improving Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco's economic and trade relations. Morocco is one of the strongest economies of Africa and this agreement is one of the opportunities for closer economic co-operation. It is our interest to restore and strengthen our traditionally good reputation in African countries, where co-operation with Morocco is of particular importance, as well as a significant factor in regional and African development. The Kingdom of Morocco, in the 1980s, was one of the most stable and significant business partners in our country. Bilateral economic co-operation has not been developed, except for trade in goods, but lags behind traditionally good political relations. Since 2004, Serbia has recorded a permanent deficit in exchange with Morocco. In 2012, an exchange of $9.5 million was made, of which exports were 1.6 million and imports were 7.9 million. Serbia's interest is in realising investment projects, exporting our products, carrying out work in the fields of agriculture, water industry, construction, infrastructure and new technologies. I expect that the development and stability of mutual economic relations and greater legal certainty in the business contacts of businessmen will contribute greatly to the agreement on cooperation in the veterinary field. The Socialist Party of Serbia will support the adoption of the National Parks Bill, the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco, as well as other laws that are today the subject of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35716	Thank you, Miss Marash. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. He's not here. Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. He's not in the O.R. The People's Messenger Aleksandar Radojevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Antic. Here you go, Mr. Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35717	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members and colleagues. I'll try to be brief. We've heard a lot of opinions about and against this law, I think this law is good, because it's an extorted solution between the founding state and what is development, between what is really and possible in these conditions to do. In fact, the law comes to terms at a time when for many years the carelessness of those who before this law was passed did as they knew, wanted and could, and did certain damages to the vast spaces of what is called protected areas, national parks, so it was practically impossible to start from the beginning to regulate this matter from the beginning, as if nothing had happened before and as if nothing around us existed that should be regarded as a practical state which had already been done, done harm or benefit could be judged. Why do I think that? Because in Article 19. There is something in the law that is said to bring business plans of these parks, i.e. protected special purposes, space with special protection regimes. Yes, Article 22 provides for the establishment of the expert council of the national park, therefore, of a body that will monitor and analyse what is happening and what is most important in Article 24 of the most important, an active role of local self-government, local population, associations of citizens and other persons, especially in terms of the adoption of plans, development and what is on the ground. Namely, I can't imagine that now someone is going to pass a law by which, as my esteemed colleague said half an hour ago, something may or may not be allowed. When you already have a zone of protection built and houses and villas and cottages and various convenient, let's say, temporary objects that people use for recreation, for recreation, I think it's very hard to take down all of that now, because it's a huge number of these objects. After all, if we analyze it, let's take it because my lake is closest to Međačršje, with Cačka, there are built objects that look like palaces, but which are simple skeletons and boats that people use for recreation, and they've made an effort to perform their sewers and wastewaters, pretty good security, so they don't pollute their own space where they spend most of their time. If 300 or 500 of them were to be removed from there, what should we do with the entire town of Užice, Požega, Arile, Ivanica, who directly pour out their sewers without any collector in the West Morava River, which brings this lake to complete sewerage and wastewater where they are as recreationals. That's why I think this is a good balance between what's found, what's inherited, and what needs to be done in regulation, making standards and regulations that need to be respected, in order to keep what's left for our children in the future. What is also mentioned in the debate during the day, it is that there are a significant number of businesses or those in the service of the economy, which do not meet some ecological conditions. I will remind only that a few months ago here on the subject of signing a contract with Tennessee or Tennessee that should be here in Vojvodina to raise a million tollers, he did not say that they would pollute the environment terribly, further pollute the environment because there is no adequate deposit of nitrite from their feces. I'll remind you that a much more important economic component of this project and all other projects is, because I'm going to use one comparison with my local Cachanical Self-Government, where I know exact data. By the time they were 90, there was a lot of bulls there and they had about 30,000 bulls that were exported for eight months. It was a net inflow from exports of 30 million then marks. Now there are two, three thousand. So, we can't expect now to first create some spectacular ecological conditions for growing or pigs in Vojvodina or bulls in Chačka, but we need to find some balance between what has been destroyed so far and what is imperative for us, and I think it's imperative to think of economic development and the creation of new values, so that we can finance from this new value and environmental projects that are extremely expensive and that require it to invest, for the sake of the future and not for profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35718	Thank you, Mr. Radojevic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Antic, and let the MP Irena Alexic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35719	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the fact that the National Parks Act does not seem to be too much at first sight, at least by the number of members, and perhaps this would have been a superficial impression that it is not so significant, but it seems to me that the institutes proposed in this law are of great importance, that the government has recognised the importance of national parks, in itself, when it comes to the protection of the environment, but as well as the economic potential of the Republic of Serbia, and that it is fully aware that the tasks of national parks are quite complex, in the protection of biodiversity, the protection of endangered specimens of flora and fauna, that it is very important that the balance between people and nature is protected, but also to ensure a sustainable development in national parks, because a large number of more accurate municipalities that are not sufficiently developed, relying on national parks themselves and national parks themselves have a significant impact on the economy of these areas. I would say that what's most important, therefore, is the government's determination to take responsibility for national parks. Therefore, the active role of the government is primarily seen through a ten-year management plan, through plans that are one year old and through annual reports delivered by national parks, through which all activities in the previous period can be considered, to see if what is planned and respected are respected. This is very important because in the previous period, it seems to me that we haven't fully used all the opportunities that national parks provide and that in the national parks themselves, there are a lot of wandering and a lot of not getting along. What's very good also in the law, it's the existence of two tips. One expert advice that should not be suspiciously designed to follow the work of national parks, but it is also very important to this other advice, the user council, because as I said, local environments are heavily based on national parks. This interaction between national parks and local environments can also provide serious benefits in the economy of these local environments. I would like to say that even if I were to ask the government, the ministry, of course, that in this previous period, in the short term, first of all, take care of the Tara National Park, which, in my knowledge, has significantly increased its territory by about 6,000 miles. This causes in part a little bit of discomfort among citizens who fear that in some ways their economy will be threatened, but the financial transfer funds prepared in the government should primarily enable those people to cope with this period and to provide more serious funds to Baji's Basta municipality at first moment to improve the quality and quality of the economy of those areas entering the national park. So, one application for the ministry, for the government, that however Bajina Basta has priority at the moment, and of the good things that are still important and that are important for the government, I think it is very important that the government has made it clear that wild construction in national parks cannot survive, that everything that was built must be removed because it has an important impact on business and national parks themselves. As for, in general, the opportunities of economic national parks, I think they are very large, that services play a very important segment in the economy of each society, in the economy of developed countries reach even a percentage of about 60-70%, that services offered are not only commercial, they are primarily visible, but they are also in the areas of eco-systems and strengthening, the preservation of national parks themselves, and that this should not be avoided when considering opportunities to create new jobs and strengthen the economy in areas where national parks are located. So far, unfortunately, we've had one, I'd say, the philosophical development of national parks, above all because the government didn't take active participation. Like I said, things change this time. I think there's room opening up for direct investment, and we need to coordinate when it comes to national parks. I am sure that the Government will provide this coordination, that we need to have one investment guide for all national parks that will be under strict control and that, I believe, it is important that entrepreneurs who operate in national parks through some business forums are also joining, giving their proposals and expressions of their interest in certain activities, which would have an important impact on the business of the national parks themselves. So there's a lot to be done. The tourist offer can change significantly. I don't see any problem in that, of course, if environmental protection, which has priority, complies with all the requirements put in front of national parks. What perhaps in this law, according to me, is missing, although I have heard something that the minister has said will be a stricter criminal policy in some of the laws that are coming in some future period. Right now, criminal policy in this law is pretty vague. I think that there should be a significant difference between the violations that appear outside the protected zones and in the national parks themselves and protected zones, and that sanctions must be significantly more severe than they are currently under some applicable laws. I would also say that it may be that the Council of Users should be partially completed, because interest in the field of the environment and the number of members of the Council found in the user council is not enough to fully reflect the different interests, interests primarily of the NGO sector, but also the interests of entrepreneurs, although it is very important and very important that local self-government representatives were found in it. So, one law that will significantly change the business of national parks, importantly to strengthen the tourist offer, that through possibly and foreign direct investment we have quality accommodation facilities that we lack, that we have one more serious offer, of course to the extent that national parks can accept, that we have a larger number of visitors, which through one financial effect would certainly mean that national parks will fully achieve their social role in some future period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35720	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35721	Thank you. Dear chairman, distinguished guests from the ministry, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are discussing four draft laws, including three agreements. When it comes to agreements, I always like to stress and underline that they are really good for all states of signatories, that they always open new doors and that they always create new opportunities, some new potentials for mutual cooperation, exchange of experiences, information between states, and that as such they are very good and that as such they should always be supported. The agreement that we talked about today may be the least possible agreement in the veterinary field, signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco. This agreement, which I would like to point out, covers all areas when it comes to veterinary, as covered by the exchange of experiences, knowledge, as I have already mentioned. Also, nothing less important, exchange of experts when it comes to veterinary, which is very significant, especially considering that this is not some static area, but that it is an area where different types of research are constantly happening. So, in crossing different species, experts would know it much better of course to explain, but what's evident is that it's a living process, that there are constantly different experiences and different inventions, so of course exactly the exchange in the field of knowledge means a lot. Of course, this agreement between our countries will also allow easier transport of goods, which is quite significant, so that once again such and similar agreements should always be supported. The next two agreements, one agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Hungary on timely exchange of information on the case of radiological danger. Of course it's more than evident that this is about protection, which is what this agreement is about, that it's about protecting the environment, that it's about protecting people's health and, of course, it's clear that when this area is about no inaccuracies, it's not supposed to be, because if we take into account the matter that the agreement is covering, it's not even harmless and they can't be small and insignificant, but that it's always about the harariums, even which are least, have a significant impact on people's health, so that there's every precaution more than welcome. When this agreement is, and the next thing I'm going to talk about, what I would particularly point out is that regional co-operation, which is very important in this way, is that good neighbourly relations are nurtured and, of course, where happiness for such and similar agreements to be as much as possible, because in the past time we have seen the importance of having good, quality relations with countries in the immediate environment. So, this is practically the only way, and the state of Serbia and our government has so far shown that it is very valuable, hardworking and committed to work on why it of course has received recognition from the European Union as well. Once again when environmental protection is involved in improving regional co-operation, there is also a more accurate agreement on preventing water pollution caused by navigation under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement. So it's just up to us and the Slovenians to ratify this agreement. That is what Croatia and BiH have already done. When it comes to this agreement, what is particularly focused on, which is common to all of us, it is to keep the Sava River maximum, to preserve it from all forms of pollution, especially when it comes to waste. In particular, what we all know would not be too bad to stress, but it is not bad to repeat ourselves because of both Serbia's citizens, above all, is that the state of Serbia that does not allow the import of dangerous waste, which means, if vessels are found to carry dangerous waste with it, would not be able to do the same waste, so the state of Serbia would not accept such vessels in its own country. When it comes to waste disposal, what I would especially like to praise, which is very detailed, very precisely defined by this agreement, is: it is defined that this waste should be delayed, i.e. what technical possibilities the vessels must have, but also the ports, in order to get the proper disposal of waste, which I think is very good, this preventive action and thus best to protect the environment. Then, this proposal for an agreement, i.e. the Protocol, provides for black and white books, meaning, something more concrete about this agreement, which I think is very good that there is this written record which these vessels adhere to and respect the same legislation, and yet, which are vessels to which particular attention should be paid because they have, either once or even more, violated the legislation. Also, what I think is very important is that there is this legal possibility to react urgently in case a vessel is found to be potentially environmentally dangerous, in which case the possibility of an emergency reaction is allowed, i.e. it is allowed to disable such vessel from further sailing, which I think is very good. At the very end, since there was really a lot of talk about the National Parks Bill, I will take a very short look at the law. There were very different opinions when it came to him. I personally consider this law to be good and high-quality for a number of reasons, firstly, because it is very detailed and because it is very precise, especially when it comes to establishing the borders of national parks. Then, nothing less detailed and precise is and when they are determined which are exactly the mechanisms that will protect these national parks, and also, which are principles, or repressive measures if it comes to it, control measures, that these same legal principles are not respected, which I think is very good, that the state of Serbia, which is very rich in national parks, is very good to have one, to say, strict policy, which I believe is being introduced by this law and that at least by its generations, if anything else, we owe it to preserve national parks as they are. I am just thinking that it will be a real success, to preserve national practices as they are, natural beauty, to save them from ourselves, that we and our generations can continue to enjoy them, to preserve them from all the potential dangers that a modern life provides. I think it'll be a real success. Also, all these agreements that I have mentioned, as well as the importance of regional co-operation, I am very pleased that we are also growing awareness that there is no more individual action on any issue, but that there is a need for co-ordinated co-operation, and especially coordinated co-operation when it comes to such a serious area as environmental protection. I believe that all these are very good and very valid reasons why the proposed agreements and the bill should be supported, which, of course, will be supported by the SNS in the voting day and will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35722	Thank you. Alexandra's not here. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35723	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, Svrljig municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis with its surroundings. Normally, Serbia is the most beautiful country in the world. I will fully support all of my previous colleagues who have talked about problems and agriculture, these new bill proposals concerning national parks, but I will look more closely at this proposal for a veterinary agreement between Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco. Since I am a representative of the United Peasant Party, and I think agriculture is one of the most important industries without which we cannot succeed, and Serbia will, I'm sure, take much faster and stronger steps when much more aid is given to that part of our economy, that is, agriculture. A moment ago, the minister also said that last year we had good results on the export of agricultural products. The Authority for Veterinary Safety, Veterinary Professionals, Veterinary Services as a free public good urgently requires support in infrastructure, resources and capacity, in order to fully meet international standards and thus achieve greater protection of animal and human health. Putting the state in the protection of animal health and preparedness of the veterinary service for rapid diagnostics and radicalisation of particularly dangerous infectious areas of animals, such as foot-and-mouth disease, bluetongue, classical swine fever, and diseases which are transmitted to humans and to humans, zoonoses, brucellosis, rabies, salmonella, bird and swine flu and others, is one of the more long-term priorities of the public investment of the Republic of Serbia. These are of particular importance, as only well-organised and strong veterinary services and well-financed control programmes can also lead to a reduction in the direct costs of the state, resulting from compensation for the damage caused by the loss of productivity of animals, as well as the costs incurred by the treatment of humans. Good co-operation with countries in the environment and the world, exchange of information, experience, is of great importance for the work of the Department of Veterinary and Veterinary Services. So thanks to the excellent co-operation of the Veterinary Authority with countries in the region and the Veterinary-Special Institute Nis with the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, and then with a responsible response to the field veterinary service, in just two hours there is a suspicion of bluetongue in Medvedja, a diagnosed disease and measures have been taken to ensure that this disease can cause minimal damage and are at least in the region. I note that to this end, the veterinary service has visited every agricultural household and has given maximum support to all people on very difficult and unaccessible terrains, without any compensation. Note, without any compensation, veterinary workers visited every household and in some way helped to stop this dangerous disease, as far as sheep are concerned. The long-standing struggle between experts from the Nis Veterinary Institute and the southern Serbian veterinarian with brucellosis brought down the insidious animal disease and humans to the ultimate minimum in the endemic region of southeastern Serbia. This work of the veterinary service reduced the threat of animal health and human health for countries in the environment, as well as for other countries in which our products are exported, as recognised by the EU and highly assessed for those activities. I must conclude that the veterinary service, in addition to these results, which are primarily based on veterinary ethics, is in a very difficult position and therefore I insist on much greater support for veterinary services and veterinarians throughout Serbia, especially the competent agriculture ministry. For all this reason, I believe that the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco in cooperation in the veterinary field will be another link in the chain that will contribute to the easier transport of animals and products of animal origin, while at the same time preventing the introduction of infectious diseases of animals and humans, as well as to the health of harmful products of animal origin, as well as improving cooperation in the veterinary field. As for veterinary services and field veterinary work, I've been on the ground for many years, I've worked as a field veterinary worker, there's another colleague here in the Assembly, he's a doctor of veterinary medicine, and maybe there's another veterinarian who did the job, and maybe he didn't finish high school, he did it in some previous period, but in the end, the veterinary service is very important for our country of Serbia. As a representative of the United Peasant Party, I supported our prime minister, Mr. Vukic, precisely because he puts a great accent on agriculture, on the countryside and, most importantly, puts an accent on livestock. We all know that without a strong veterinary service, we don't have much livestock, because animal health is very important because of human health. That's why I'm going to call once more on the competent agriculture ministry to put on a much higher accent than it is so far for veterinary services, and I'm especially talking about field veterinary workers. We all know that the privatisation that was done in the veterinary service in the previous period was very bad, and I can say, we are witnesses, how much of these privatisations have been annulled. One big support, once again, for the government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Vukic, the competent ministry and ministers, Mrs Boskovic, for the next steps concerning all these laws, as far as agriculture is concerned, because I am sure we will have the opportunity to resolve these problems, which have arisen from some unwork in some previous period. As People's MP in front of the United Peasant Party, I will vote for a set of all these laws. Once again, I support the full policy of the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, precisely because he puts a great accent on agriculture and livestock.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35724	The word is from MP Dusan Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35725	Dear chairman, distinguished guests from the ministry, esteemed fellow MPs and dear citizens, as much has already been said, not to mention, I will be commenting on the National Parks Bill in short lines. In my opinion, any law should be brief and clear and unequivocal, if the area to which it applies. That's exactly the case with this law. This law contains introductory provisions, objective, value, area, borders and regimes of protection, management, sustainable use of the national park, supervision and transitional and final provisions, and all with the ultimate aim of preserving the environment. So in all these segments there is a detailed and precise writing of what this law covers. One more thing is that this bill on national parks is good and that only a negligible number of amendments have been tabled on it. This law covers five national parks in the Republic of Serbia, although by biodiversity, geodiversity, flora and fauna, cultural and historical heritage, Serbia as a whole can freely be declared a national park. Since I come from the municipality of Irig, which is just located in Frusca Gora, which was declared the National Park of 1960, I would say a few words about this beauty and pearl of the Pannonian String. Fruska Gora National Park is an area with exceptional natural and cultural values, variety of vegetation, flora, fauna and numerous geomorphological, geological, hydrological phenomena give this area national significance. The area of Fruska Gora National Park now covers 26,672 hectares. The basic activities of the park are, among other things, the protection, preservation and improvement of bio-geographical features, areas, ecosystems and diversity of nature, as well as the prevention of activities that may disrupt the markings of this extremely valuable space. The Fruška Gora National Park also gives great importance to scientific and cultural and educational activities, then presentations and popularisation of the value of the planning of the area, as well as the rehabilitation of the endangered parts. In addition to these basics, the Fruška Gora National Park deals with growing, protecting, exploiting forests, fishing, hunting, tourism intervention, the production of fruit material, healthy food, medicinal plants, forest fruits, as well as other products. In addition to all of this, it is important to note that there are 17 Orthodox monasteries in Frusca Gora from different periods of Serbian history. In view of the little noise, especially in Vojvodina, I will quote the words of our famous poet, Uncle Jova Jovanovic Dragon – wherever you find a nice place, that tree is a noble tree and can reward. So much for that. I would now focus on, also in short lines, a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco in the veterinary field. This agreement is very important when it comes to the export, import or transport of animals and products of animal origin between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco. The aim is to recognise and exchange veterinary certificates, certificates, exchange of reports on the status of infectious diseases, measures taken to prevent their occurrence, spread, treatment and eradication. It is common knowledge that the causes of the disease, whether plants, animals or humans, do not know the state, or geographical boundaries, as well as constitutional arrangements. It therefore takes as many of these agreements as possible to exchange experiences in preventing the spread of the disease, thus providing healthy and safe food for people. This Agreement covers the most important elements in the field of veterinary legislation relating to transport, import, export and transport of animals and products of animal origin, as well as the taking of measures and the monitoring of infectious diseases, exchange of expert opinions and control of the traffic of the goods concerned. In addition to everything mentioned, we must primarily have our production so that we can count on the export of animals and products of animal origin. For us in the Republic of Serbia, livestock production is in stagnation and even in decline, which is not good. We have 0.6 constitutional throats per hectare, and it is generally known that cattle farming is a higher stage of wartime production. So we also need to increase the stock fund, build processing facilities, educate producers, and especially younger populations, to meet them with more stimulating measures both in the lease of land and in the purchase of livestock. This would be one way for young people to stay in the country and work, to make the best use of meadows and pastures that are now abandoned. Our country has huge potential for food production, and we need to take advantage of that. So let's make meat, milk, eggs, honey, etc. We make products out of the same, and then we take them out to a foreign market like our brand. In that case, such agreements would get even more on their own. Another message, agriculture and tourism can speed up Serbia's development and prosperity as soon as possible. So, in voting day, I call on all the wise and mindful heads of this house, and there are, to support all the proposed agenda points. With your permission as chairman, to take advantage of the opportunity, I'd like to ask a question to the distinguished secretary about the blue language, if possible. What's been done and how long has it been with the vaccination? Is the strain of the virus that caused the disease, the vaccine obtained, that the strains contain and the time limit of use of the vaccine? It's one depression, I apologize if it can, if not another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35726	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35727	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm a little damaged today. My colleague's gone. He's not on the duel, he's not on the polygraph. He's not here now either, and I really thought we were talking about Fruska Gora National Park and the impact and raising of new wines so far on the environment of Fruska Gora National Park, but since the gentleman isn't here, I won't be wasting my time, and I won't even compare our military biographys, which he tried yesterday. I will, of course, support these four proposals, but I will talk about an agreement with Morocco from the vet. So, a former colleague has already said something about bluetongue, it's just one of the infectious diseases that can be transferred from certain areas to our country. It is very important to co-operate with other countries that have to warn you about the occurrence of infectious diseases in the environment, that is, with the countries with which we have an agreement, for the simple reason to know that we are following the situation of what the trials should be conducted? Should we examine, for example, the bluetongue mentioned in other infectious diseases, and, in addition, determine the strain of vaccines We must co-operate with close neighbors, but also with countries where, unfortunately, diseases are transmitted in trade, transport of animals, food of animal origin, etc. can also be transferred from countries that are not on the European continent. I'm particularly concerned about the diseases that appear in the part of Africa right now, where there's no idea who the government is, where most likely state appliances don't work and where there's probably no control. That's why these agreements are precious. This time it's about Morocco, I believe they're following someone around. It's very important that our country, the administration that's following it, knows at an appropriate time what's going on in the territory of the states with which we have agreements in the veterinary field. I will dare say that we must reform the proper administrations, as well as the Veterinary Administration. I think it's an intrinsic administrative apparatus that, together with the Plant Protection Department, we need to reform it urgently, because we cannot fully implement reforms. Of course, the minister is not responsible for anything, I must say, because the situation is inherited. The services that work deep in ministries must be reformed, as reforms cannot be implemented fundamentally, if they are the ones for which reforms are being carried out. So, if you change the system, you have to remove from the parts of the system all those who are a barrier to changing the system, those who in themselves are a brake because they have produced such a situation which, I say again, is an inherited philosophy that currently governments in Serbia in these two areas, the Veterinary and Plant Protection Administration is inherited and that philosophy is about to say – better introduced than produced. For example, water, etc. As far as veterinary matters are concerned, I need to draw attention to the fact that this is related, the Veterinary Administration is closely linked to the Plant Protection Administration and the Ministry of Agriculture will be at risk, since this has been a dry year due to aflatoxin that it may have consequences. Because of one administration's concern, the other administration can suffer consequences, and in the end, only the government itself can have damage to it. We knew that there was a dry year, the Plant Protection Administration had to warn us, first of all the Ministry and the Government to carry out protection, say sow corn, which is a corn dance producer, and the corn dance is causing aflatoxin. We have already had the consequences of an over-inflated affair, as the case of aflatoxin is, in fact, outside the EU customs measure, where they have hyper-production of milk and protect their market from all other countries. By means of this measure, they have succeeded through members of the former regime's party to create an affair and take part in our market by foreign milk producers. That's why it's a very sensitive area, and that's why I dared advise the Minister of Agriculture once again, underlining that she had nothing to do with it. So, to try to get that red taped bureaucratic apparatus, especially at the Plant Protection and Veterinary Administration, it's moving today. In this dry year, it wouldn't surprise another affair of aflatoxin that is also related to the production of cereals, also related to the Veterinary Administration, and we have to monitor it daily, since various lobbies are trying to take advantage of their chance and enter the market with their milk, their products and throw out domestic production. I repeat again for the sake of our citizens that there is no harm to health, because in the United States 10 times the dose, but what is allowed in our country, there is no danger, but we need to make sure that someone does not take advantage of what there is no real danger, that the marketing case does not abuse, that some of our milk producers do not throw out in favour of some foreign ones, which would be devastating for our cattlemen. That's why I'm obliged to draw attention to it. I'm also obliged to draw attention to bluetongue as far as veterinary matters are concerned. I was opposed to importing the vaccine, imported by the Veterinary Administration this year, given that the strain has not been sufficiently tested. He hasn't been questioned at all by what the institutes say. We haven't exactly figured out what this year's vaccine strain is, they say it's a four, it was last year, it can change. What worries me is that from Croatia, the president of the Committee on Agriculture told me that two treatments with this vaccine recently imported and with us, two treatments for bluetongue did not result. So they were in vain, and what worries me is that we, that is, the Department of Veterinary, are a certain part of that service, to be even more precise, which is not enough this year to examine the strain of bluetongue, or vaccine strain that can be applied. But what's done is done, we'll discuss it further on the Committee on Agriculture. I believe that this service is to be improved and must be re-produced, I say again, in the depth of the service itself, all small, large clerks who, apart from what they do for our country, work for certain lobbies, for the manufacturers of the preparations, for the manufacturers of certain medicines, etc. We need to be extremely careful, because our farmers are suffering damage and this is the dry year. I think that we had to be warned that corn in the dry year should be treated with appropriate chemical preparations and that it was the obligation of the Plant Protection Authority to signal to us that it must be done, to reduce the risk of the occurrence of dance, and thus also of aflatoxin. As far as other matters are concerned, from that administration, it is not clear to me that I've been through this matter a little bit, as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, that when someone publishes a list of authorised preparations, instead of publishing a list of domestic preparations under the rules, he publishes foreign preparations, and he doesn't publish domestically at all, and therefore later on, a registration of preparations is made after 10 years. Domestic producers should have appropriate advantages. However, there are approximately 700 foreign preparations registered there, and I think we are obliged as much as we can and all other countries to treat and use all of our mechanisms to support in one domestic game of competition, because they guarantee, except that besides paying, taxes they guarantee that we will have the right number of workers to work in these industries and it is a miracle that we have the opposite things happening to us. In doing so, I have to say again that I don't mean government or ministers. We must simply all pay attention together to these negative phenomena that occur, as much as possible, as they do damage, not only to the Republic of Serbia's budget, but to domestic meat and milk producers. It's especially sensitive to livestock. Once you lose the stock fund, it's very hard to rebuild it. That's why this deal with Morocco is precious. The agreements we previously signed with some other countries are precious. Some are affected by war fires and therefore we must be very sensitive to every kind of shipment from these countries. We need to be sensitive even when we're tracking this refugee wave, because some diseases are being transmitted through humans. I believe that every day we will look better and better in that area. Progress as chairman of the Agriculture Committee has to say I do, but maybe I'm a megalomaniac. I am not quite satisfied, not with the work of the minister, not even with the work of the secretary of state, nor with those chosen by the government. I am dissatisfied, about some middle and lower level of civil service, which is trying to make part of its service independent trade organisations, and that is why I will be self-critical, regardless of any political will, regardless of what officials in the government or officials in the ministry are concerned with. So, two things to pay attention to at this point, this is the vaccine to bluetongue, given that no sufficient strain has been examined, the previous colleague has spoken of it, and that maximum attention is paid to aflatoxin, and that in future and rusted wheat when it appears, we are temporarily, as it is said, phyto-sanitaryly alerted, as a government, as a society we can react to these diseases, because last year rust wheat was taken away from us, believed or not, 100 million euros through a minor breed, because the peasants, em did not have enough money, em were not well enough to be warned that they had to carry out protection from this disease. On the other hand, this year it appears because of the dry year, it appears because of a worm called Sovica, a dance that is caused by aflatoxin appears. It is especially this year because it has been possible and I call on the ministry to try and comply with all these regulations together with the committee and to put on, because we are not the EU country and we do not have to follow their extra customs measures and put our own production into danger, I call on the Ministry to establish some limit value that will follow us to close to the EU, so when we enter the EU, then we will fully follow those limits. Since I underline that citizens know that there is no danger of human health, that it is one extra-carinal measure, where Europe is trying to protect its market, and that the surrounding markets, if they are not careful enough, threaten and find places for its producers, to preserve its production, and in doing so, I say that I do not like it, but of course they as great producers are looking to home as much of their production to our own, because we have to try to preserve our own. At the very end, I want the Minister of Agriculture to come up with all these subsidies for which the peasants daily call us to start paying off and by the end of the year, I believe, to come up with some positive zero, and if there is any help from the Committee on Agriculture, I am willing to co-operate. I believe that if some of the funds are missing, the government will go out to meet the Ministry of Agriculture and pay off, as far as I know, about 200,000 landowners with six thousand dinars per hectare, to finally solve that problem. No matter how many years ago there have been delays, I believe that together we will get the strength to solve this problem and that at the end of the year we farmers can look into our eyes and they will look at us, and that we can all stand in front of the mirror together and say, this year we have done everything in our power, and everything else has been nature. We were not powerful enough to change nature's temper. This year was dry. She took away some of her income, but all in all, I believe that agriculture gave what was expected of her, since unfortunately, there is not enough resources for her. This is a poor country now. That's what we inherited. There's not enough money to invest in it, given the situation, the situation of the robbed state, the house of the naked walls, there's not enough resources unlike other countries, and it's not big enough budget. We stand out 5% like everyone else, 4.5 to 5%, but we don't have a budget big enough. We don't have enough industry to pull agriculture, and our farmers believe that they appreciate ours, as some call it, debilitation, and I think we need to share this little bit together, and that agriculture has given some result a relatively, even better than what's been invested in it, and I'm in favour of investing as much as possible because in this way not only farmers, but also the processing industry to be competitive and to be able to deal with countries in the environment. I thank you all for your attention. It's not convenient to talk about agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35728	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Dr Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice-President of the National Assembly and Chairman of today's session and the largest number of sessions we have in this session, Mr. Bečić, respected Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic and distinguished guests and guests from the ministry, Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic, you often come to the National Assembly to defend the bill's proposals, to defend a certain system of ideas, beliefs and values you believe in, and I think that's a very good approach. Today, the right to tell you, I liked one of the combatants you showed in this kind of political dialogue, even if we assume that maybe because of the lack of information sometimes you're wrong, that struggle points to faith, commitment, and it's good that such people here, in that way, I think, perform. Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, you say the aim of this National Parks Act is to preserve and improve the values of biodiversity, geodiversity, as well as cultural historical values. To hear all the MPs, we agree with you, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic. You also say in point 3 of Article 1(2) that the objective is to preserve and improve geonasal objects. We agree on that too, for example. We also agree on point 5 where you say the goal is to preserve and improve the adequate quality of life of people in the national park through the development of social, cultural and economic activity. So far, Mrs Bogosavljević Boskovic, we have one agreement on this side of the executive authority and on this side of people who are mainly critical of this executive power, and then we reach point 6 in Article 2 of Article 1 where it says that the objective is to preserve cultural historical heritage. We agree on that too, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, but here we come to a dilemma, to a question that I have to tell you. As far as our experiences are concerned, the dialogue with you is repeated as part of the experience of these discussions in the National Assembly. The question of language, honored gentlemen, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, can also be treated as part of this point 6 here. Why is the question of language important? Because when we write laws, gentlemen, then we must, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, write very clearly, very precisely. I mean, we don't have to agree on that, but I think when a bill comes to the National Assembly, it has to go through a final correction, even in a editorial sense, in terms of text. We were forced, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, to submit six amendments to Articles 7 and 22 and two amendments to Articles 21 and 23. Here, let me tell you what kind of mistakes have been subdued. If you don't agree it's a mistake, you tell me. But if you agree to tell us right now, we've made a mistake, we'll accept the amendments. Here, for example, in Article 7, this happened yesterday in a debate with Mr. Ljajic and other ministers, but I don't understand, it is said like this – the National Park "Shar-Mountain" was founded for preservation, so it states what everything, and then says – forest and high mountain vegetation. Is that what you say? Maybe I'm not an expert. It is here today, for example, and it has been resented by some MPs who may be discussing this, who are not directed to it. As far as I'm concerned, it's called vegetation or vegetation. For example, we had the same thing here about one law whether it's detergent or detergent. I've made sure it's right to write a detergent, for example, but I don't think there's a vegation here right now. Or, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, in Article 22, be careful what we lack, a sign of interpretation. Here, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, says – the president and members of the expert council appoint the ministry, no point, no point, so the next row and the big letter, the sentence begins – members of the expert council are elected, etc. Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, I believe that just because you are often in the Assembly it is not good to repeat the same mistakes, because the last time we met here we had the same kind of instruction and remarks, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic. It is not good, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, that a minister learns from his mistakes and that a government learns from its mistakes. There are other people's mistakes to be taught by the government, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35730	Time. I thank you, Dr. Pavicevic. By old custom, a little bit about the subject, and a little more about principles. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35731	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Bogosavljevic and his associates, it is always nice to speak after my colleague Pavicevic from the New Party, because he brings a little spirit into the debate, and it is necessary for this time that does not grace many smiling faces on the streets of Serbia and certainly not here in the Assembly. Dear Mrs Bogosavljevic, a member of one of the most inefficient governments in the world, I must admit that you are making a contribution to this inefficientness, and I will watch that today we are talking about the National Parks Act from one point from which the approach was made by fellow Pavicevic. So we can agree with your general evaluations. I listened to your presentation this morning, you said – the dramatic state of the environment. You didn't just talk about Serbia, you talked about it in a broader context, and it's not a question to anyone. The turnaround movement and I personally advocate sustainable development. Without sustainable development, there is no development, no agriculture, no tourism, no numerous other branches in that chain. We say - biodiversity, national parks are important to sustain the diversity of the plant and animal world, etc. Now we come to that part of relativity, Mrs. Bogosavljevic. What have we all done together, and above all, for the past three years when it comes to maintaining, or creating an environment that would have conditions for sustainable development? So sustainable development means that the environment remains for both our children and our children, etc., that it does not collapse. What did we do, talk about it the other day when we talked about the Tourism Act with the wild dumps? What did we do when it came to water and stream pollution? Many of them, Mrs Bogosavljevic, are in national parks or on the edge of national parks. What happens to the implementation of a sustainable development strategy, or rural development that does not exist without this sphere? I ask you on behalf of the Turnover Movement, so what happens to building central regional dumps without which there is no sustainable development? What happens to supporting rural environments in infrastructure development, Mrs. Bogosavljevic? Also, what's going on, which a colleague of mine from my position just asked when it comes to subsidies? Not to mention subsidies for, say, rural tourism, for which there are no even subsidies. But what happens for subsidies for the primary part of agriculture, which is livestock and warfare, or plant production? Do they pay off in time and so low as they are? Is agriculture that branch where we're supposed to realize our savings? Is there certain elements in this law, Mrs Bogosavljevic, that will help solve these problems? I'd say there's neither any benefits nor damage to this law. If you do not implement national strategies, if you do not form a regional, ultimately and rural strategy and action plans for sustainable development, there will be none of these papers that we adopt. It's no problem for me to raise my hand in voting day for this law. It's not a problem. The problem is, the provision I've proposed as an amendment, that you come in a year and tell me what you've done. What was done, for example, for the infrastructure for here mentioned "Fruška Gora" National Park, in which trails are about 90 years ago when this park somehow became what it is today?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35732	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35733	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just yesterday I commended the respected previous speaker that he had finally begun to stick to what was the point of the agenda, but here, today he had the opportunity to discourage me and discourage me in that regard. I've caused, unfortunately, a counterproduct. Today, important points are on the agenda, and one of the most important is certainly the bill on national parks, which in my opinion treats a very important area, which is the protection of nature, natural goods and natural wealth that our country undoubtedly has. But from the presentation of the previous speaker, we heard again about some government's effectiveness, smiling faces, some dumps, etc. Now, as he has asked a few questions to the honourable minister, I have to ask him a few questions. When it comes to cleaning up dumps, what did they do, or the government during whose authority the previous speaker was a perian or a prominent member, or MP, what did they do to clean up those dumps they were talking about? What did they do with "Let's Clean Serbia", whose promoter was Mr Oliver Dulic? Did they clean it up, or did you just clear the budget? In addition to the billboards you've been setting up and wasted in a frenzy of money by budget users, what exactly did you do? Why didn't you ask those questions you're asking today? I see that today in a statement, i.e. in addressing the previous speaker, the main topic is employment in public enterprises, so there were some concrete data, some figures, nine thousand, 12 thousand, I don't even know how much more, which is, of course, all notorous untrue. I have to ask, why didn't he worry so deeply about the state and number of employees while he was chairman of the JKP Management Board "The Road" in Novi Sad? We heard the other day that 100 people in one day were able to be employed by New Sad public enterprises. Where was that worry then? But to get back to the law. What is most important to point out today is that by adopting this law, we achieve positive effects in the domain of the objectives identified by the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, then, with strategic documents in the field of nature protection, the environment, as well as sustainable development, and finally - an increase in the area that will be part of the Natura 2000 ecological network as one of the conditions of EU accession. As we have heard, and I personally believe that these proposed solutions are fully governed by the area of protection and development of the national park and establishing the basis for the regulation of the rights and obligations of all nature protection entities, in order to achieve the objectives already set. It should be pointed out that the bill lays down measures to protect nature and natural values in national parks, to establish a system of monitoring of natural values, to establish the conditions and measures for nature protection and the processing in natural resource management programmes and to: mining, energy, transport, water economy, agriculture, forestry, hunting, fishing, as well as all other activities affecting nature. I support the adoption of this law because of the more precise definition of procedures and procedures for plans, programmes, projects, works and activities in the territory of national parks, all in order to create a safer legal environment for all entities. What I find very significant is part of the bill that gives the national park manager greater rights and powers, but also obligations and further strengthens responsibility in the design and application of management plans, as well as all rules on internal order, organisation, training and equipment of guard services. In order not to be obliged to repeat everything that has already been pointed out several times so far, we can say that the proposed solutions are achieved, as we have heard, identification, conservation and sustainable use of natural resources, but also enlargement, what I personally consider to be the most important part, social or public awareness in relation to the protection of nature, natural resources and the environment, as well as the security of the interests of ecologically responsible developmentists in national parks. For all these reasons, I call on us to adopt such proposed solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35734	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35735	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When we talk about the territory of our country that enjoys some form of protection, the warning fact indeed is that only 6% of our country's territory is under some form of protection. Although the government says it has a plan, both this and the previous government, that it has a plan that will increase the area of protected goods to 12%, the question arises – are we as a state doing this because we are aware of the facts and importance of the environment, or because it asks the EU to do so? As far as this law is concerned, our particular grudge is a lack of sanctions for those who violate this law, but it is also such a grudge against other laws, because we believe that this lack of sanctions actually loses the meaning of the law and is left to people whether they want to obey a rule or not. The spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia was designed to increase the percentage of our country's protected territory to 10% by 2015 and then to make the percentage 12% by 2021. I'm using a source from the Serbia Nature Protection Institute. National parks in Serbia were placed under protection between the 1960s and the 1980s, and they are of great importance for the improvement of the environment. However, the trend in protecting the area in our country does indeed have a negative reputation, since it allegedly prevents other actions from developing. This is a direct consequence of insufficient information, but this opinion comes also because of the fact that the laws, regulations and other acts concerning the protection of an area are brought untransparently and often, while ignoring recommendations from the professional public, relevant factors and local communities and proposals they make. This bad trend can be changed by applying European norms and procedures, but above all, by changing the way we think and understand environmental protection and when we talk about it at all. Protected good must be seen as something of great importance for future generations and something that creates preconditions for the development of other activities, and thus increases opportunities and profits, self-employment in small family activities. For example, Serbia is rich in natural goods, extremely valuable localities, but they are not adequately protected. There are national parks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, 69 nature reserves and 17 parks, or, as I said, a little more than 6% of protected nature. The environmental buffer in the former governments of the Republic of Serbia has often changed its place, but has mostly been joined by other resorts. Currently, this resort was under the authority of the Ministry of Agriculture, in the previous government it was under the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection. Serbia is not yet part of the Natura 2000 ecological network, which is a central part of the EU's nature and biodiversity policy. It is a network for nature protection across the EU, which was established in accordance with the 1992 Habitats Directive. This network, unfortunately, is very little known in Serbia, and so far it is only the work of NGOs and citizens' associations. Official institutions, unfortunately, still do not have enough capacity to engage in implementing the Natura 2000 environmental network policy in Serbia's space. For the protection of one area, there is a rigid path towards the route of the Institute for the Protection of Nature of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The route consists of several segments, starting with the opinion of the Institute to put a particular area under protection, and on the basis of this opinion, the Government of the Republic of Serbia declares the same area protected. Local factors and other relevant factors have been excluded in most cases during the production of documentation by the Office. In fact, in the whole process of passing laws in the field of environmental protection, civil society organisations and local self-government units do not have the opportunity to participate. The laws are passed by one non-transparent means, in addition to making it difficult and disabling the application of the law, there is also a discrepancy of documents due to the neglect of all relevant facts. Based on a brief view, it can be concluded that environmental protection in Serbia is not a priority and that this is why citizens' awareness of the same is extremely low. I will take this opportunity and say something about the Special Reserve of Nature "Uvac" and about the Cave High, since it has been mentioned here before. So, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of documentation from the Institute for Nature Protection in 2006, established a Special Nature Reserve "Uvac", on a total area of 8,703 hectares, which stretches across the territory of the municipalities of Nova Varoš and Sjenica. The reservation is set up to protect and improve the living conditions of white-headed soup, rare and endangered bird species, as well as a series of other rare species of plants and animals from this area. The direct consequence of the non-transparent and rigid protection mechanism set up by the Serbian government through the regulations is the neglect of one group of relevant entities. Namely, as the space of this reservation extends to two municipalities, Sjenica and Nova Varoš, it would be logical for individuals and institutions from these municipalities to take adequate participation. The area of Uvac is not only the habitat of the white-headed soup there is a whole series of other values that have conditioned that this area enters the security regime. There are caves, pits, coves, pits. The climate especially characterizes vegetation, but the hydrographics made up of three hydro-accumulations, most of the words and tributaries of the Uvac. The government of the Republic of Serbia, after research and on the basis of documentation, as I said, established this special reservation within the limits we said. However, in the formation of the managing authority of this reserve, a system which was active until 2006, but also policies from this period from Sjenica, in the broadest context, the Municipality of Sjenica, has in the widest context a truly subordinated position or no position in the management of this reserve. As a consequence, we have a case of certain traditional geographical concepts from the territory of the Municipality of Sjenica being called and promoted by some fictional names, such as the Uvačka lake instead of the Sjenječko, Markov ravna or Nemnjeća town instead of Jerina, etc. Now the question is, why is that? Although the meanings of Uvac, as the main tourist attraction, are mainly in the territory of the Municipality of Sjenica, in official presentations and documents, this information cannot be found, but there is information that the meanings are located in Novi Varoša or Zlatar, which is not true. According to this ambience, capital investments consisting of these vision centres, info counters, etc. are on the territory of the municipality of Nova Varoš, while on the territory of the Municipality of Sjenica only sights and access routes have been made, and that is exclusively for the purpose of tourist exploitation, but not for the benefit. This situation strengthens the sense of double standards, so it is entirely justified to dissatisfaction between the association and the individuals in the Sjenica, because examples from practice say there are also double standards for visitors who come from the direction of Novi Varosha and from the direction of Sjenica. Also, according to local associations and individuals in Sjenica, the protection of goods due to poor governance is being destroyed, which is the case with the Ice Cave and the forced relocation of the nests of the beheaded soup, due to harassment and inadequate management. Although Sjenica's perpetrators have a good will for co-operation, the controller does not want to open for co-operation and is hiding behind government regulations. Here is a concrete proposal, in addition to the fact that the complete Pestarnska visorvan, because of all its wealth and biodiversity, from animal diversity, is declared one national park, to achieve a quality and effective management of the protected area of Uvac, changes in the decision and amendment of the founding act are necessary, by enabling the establishment of a working unit of this reserve in the Municipality of Sjenica, with the same activity as at the headquarters of the society. Councils should be set up as a professional advisory body consisting of representatives of local self-government in whose territories the protected area is spread. The work of this council would also include local tourist organisations, environmental and municipal inspectors, representatives of local fishing, hunting, mountaineering societies and associations, reconnaissance squads as well as other entities directly related to the protected area. All accompanying activities concerning tourism, exploitation of raw materials or other activities that can be brought into line with protection activities can also be entrusted to other entities because this way the controller would be reserved only for the job of protection and this way, with a smaller number of people, great results could be achieved as well as numerous, good examples from countries in the region. And to conclude, perhaps the most important thing in all of this is to raise citizens' awareness of the protection of the area and to know what that protection really means. The established opinion that protection actually prevents the development of other actions creates a negative mood, most of which are not directly covered, in this sense raising awareness of citizens and the public about the importance of environmental protection, but also of the opportunities that such protection provides. This can again be achieved by transferring competences to lower levels of governance, to units that would be composed of local factors and people and associations directly involved in the protection of certain localities. Thank you for your attention. I urge you once again to consider all criticisms especially those concerning the lack of sanctions related to violations of the law, because again, every law is unthinkable if there are no sanctions in it that violate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35736	I thank Mr. Imamovic. The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go, Mr. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35737	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected co-workers of the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, so today we have a set of laws on the agenda that are very important in the field of environmental protection. We have one law, law on national parks, ratification of two bilateral agreements and one protocol. When it comes to the protocol, it is a law to confirm the protocol in the prevention of water pollution caused by navigation along the framework agreement in the Sava River Basin. The Protocol aims to prevent, control and reduce pollution for vessels, identify technical requirements for port equipment, notification and response measures in the event of pollution as well as to verify water quality. Another agreement to ratify, or confirm, is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on veterinary co-operation. These agreements specify the types of bilateral co-operation in the veterinary field, which should contribute to the increased safety of products of animal origin which are subject to external trade. The agreement also includes activities on the co-operation of professional and scientific institutions, assistance in the procurement of funds for the control of infectious diseases, to the co-operation of the veterinary services of both countries. The third law on certification is between the government of Hungary and the government of the Republic of Serbia on timely exchange of information in the case of radiological danger, and this agreement is of great importance because it concerns the comprehensive co-operation of the two countries in the area of radiation and nuclear security. When it comes to the Law on National Parks, let me look back on what the current course of discussion has been, and I think on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group that we should be here in our discussions, above all, well-intentioned, and not at all tending to find the words of criticism, predicting the objective circumstances that the minister found in the Ministry of Agriculture. Since 2010, there's been a lot of time for all the ministers who were at the head of this ministry to do more at the National Parks Act, including other laws, so that what has been done today is not the result of the work or the failure of this team that is in the ministry, but is the result of the overall work and previous teams that were in the ministry. As for the Nature Protection Act, which should soon be found in the National Assembly for adoption, the observation that the National Parks Act should be on the agenda after this law is possible. To remind you, the previous National Parks Act was put out of force in 2010, except for Articles 6 and 7, so that, if it has not been done by now, it is now done with the emphasis that, when the Nature Protection Act comes, we can if we need to re-apply this National Parks Act, it would not be the first time. We had in our work in the National Assembly that within a few months we would re-impose two or three times the same law, to re-admission for the purpose of subsequent harmonisation or correction of certain provisions in those laws. So, when it comes to the National Parks Act, I'm going to talk in a wide context about important aspects, especially of environmental protection. In order to understand the importance of protected areas, and very important protected areas are also national parks, it must come from the essence that is woven into the complex interrelations of living beings and their eco systems, as well as the influence of man on them. It has to come from a category called biodiversity, and in translation it would be biological diversity. The term biodiversity is young, was born at a meeting of the National Forum for Biodiversity and was held in 1986 in Washington, organised by the National Academy of Science of the United States. In 1992, the Convention on the Protection of Biological Variety, brought to the Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio De Janeiro, has a central position, not only in the ropes of biological but also in the wider social economic and political sense. The widest accepted definition is that biodiversity or biodiversity is the whole of the gene, the type of eco system and the area on earth, and in the broadest sense, that's life on earth. Today at the beginning of the third millennium, we can conclude that the impact of man on the environment has never been more intense, more comprehensive and far-reaching. The future of the earth's planet, which means the whole living world, as well as the human civilization itself, depends critically on the perception of human beings amongst nature relations. The basic conditions of functioning of biogeochemical cycles, biological diversity, composition of the atmosphere and global climate change at a dizzy rate, the growth of the world population's numbers, with a rapid reduction of natural resources supply, build-up of half-tanates and contaminants, are dramatically warning of the seriousness of the situation. Many of these issues were the subject of debate at the first UN conference in Stockholm in 1972, which is believed to be a moment and marked a turning point in relation to the influence of man and the attitude of humanity towards the environment. The first time on a global scale from a scientific point of view was warned that nature does not possess unexhaustible wealth, then alarm warnings were included, that natural resources could not be further uncontrollably and overexploited, however, the problems of environmental distortions, hence, and biodiversity are increasing from day to day, and among the most significant problems in environmental disturbances and biological balances are certainly global climate change today, then water pollution, soil, air, biodiversity disorder, primarily through the exploitation of biological resources and exponential growth, then water pollution, land, air pollution, biodiversity pollution, primarily through the exploitation of biological resources and the exponential growth of the world's human population. In global actions to preserve biodiversity, it is considered not only its fundamental importance, but also the aesthetic, cultural, ethical and spiritual values of biodiversity for the past, present and future of human populations. A significant number of prominent world scientists and philosophers, including a Harvard professor, Professor Edward Wilson, agree that there is a significant psychological relation to the need, the preservation of diversity in the living world. Professor Wilson, the progenitor of the modern idea of the importance of studying biodiversity, this phenomenon marks the term of biophilia, and explains it as a relationship that a human being subconsciously feels in relation to other living things. So, in the course of his evolution, man came out and stepped up in perfect harmony with biodiversity, which was the perfect environment for the evolutionary range that he achieved today. Otherwise, when we talk about nature protection and environmental protection, many will think this is a problem of a newer date. It has already been mentioned, and the minister mentioned herself, for example, that the first national park in America Jelouston not to talk about it now, and that we have roots of care and protection of the environment even through legislation started in Dusan's code, I would say, as it is said that in the early Middle Ages we ate gold and not hands, the roots of nature protection in Serbia come from that time. Furthermore, when we talk about these roots of environmental protection and nature care, the Despot Stefan Lazarevic passed a law on conditions of use of mineral raw materials and ore. The first regulation on the protection of fauna in Serbia was so-called. "higher command" from 1840 prohibiting hunting for deer, goats, rabbit hunts, wild goats and edible birds. The first area that was put under protection in Serbia is the Obedska Bar in 1874, I think the minister said, I apologize if I repeat, but it is not a pity to mention it again. What's on the agenda today is the National Parks Act. National parks are areas of exceptional natural but also economic and cultural historical importance. These are areas that have maintained a high degree of biological balance between genetic, ecological, biochemical, and each other. These are the kind of oasis of preserved biodiversity in the broadest sense. The previous National Parks Act was passed in 1993. Today when we bring it, it is more precise and modern. Serbia according to new but old law has five national parks -- Kopalnik, Đerdap, Fruska Gora, Tara, Sar-planina. According to the Nature Protection Act, national parks fall into the most significant goods with a number of different natural eco-systems than the national importance of prominent landscapes and cultural heritage in which man lives in harmony with nature, which is the most significant. The aim of this law is precisely to preserve and improve all values of biodiversity, geodiversity, cultural historical values of national parks. In national parks there is real life of people and numerous economic activities are present in them, and it is necessary to balance such actions with what are laws and rules of nature. In almost all our national parks due to the personal nature and beauty of these areas, tourist activity is developing and there are significant tourist facilities in them. All of this needs to be brought into line in one of the best possible ways to bring about a highly balanced harmony between man's actions and the laws of nature. Our national parks and other protected areas are Serbia's own kind of lungs, large forest eco-systems with relics and endemic species where there is a high degree of biological balance, ecological, genetic, biogeochemical, etc. We must preserve, constantly we must insist on the creation of an ecological consciousness which seems to be missing to us, but not only for us in Serbia, but for the whole planet, because our most important priority is to preserve the nature that we inherited and that we must surrender in a healthy form to the generations to come. Unfortunately, today we are witnessing the very frequent destruction of natural resources in national parks, often the illegal cutting of forests. Then, due to the attractiveness of the area, people resort to illegal construction in national parks, jeopardising the national park not only during construction but also during the use of these facilities. Generally, these facilities do not have adequate municipal infrastructure, so uncontrollable waste disposal is threatened. It's already said here that there's a National Parks Council in law, it's a body of expertise from people with certain competences, I wouldn't talk about it. They also counter them, and can be said in some way by the National Park Users' Council, which implies continuous communication and consultation with the Expert Council, and otherwise this User's Council is from the ranks of local self-government, associations, various associations from the local level, etc. In the end, all in all, let me conclude the situation in the sphere of man's influence on biodiversity, it doesn't encourage nature today. It seems that on the global agenda in general, taking action is negligent, often boasting man's relationship to the environment and therefore needs a team sooner to deal with this issue continuously, constantly, as hard as possible and as organized as possible. I think this current government today is ready to act in that direction and also the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment Protection is doing its best to go that way. So, finally, let us be reminded of the words of Professor Harvard Edward Wilson, already mentioned, who says – if planet Earth were to find itself in the research focus of a biologist from another planet, I believe that by observing and analysing us here on earth, there is a dominant one species in the middle of its own destruction. This is indeed a very sharp and significant reminder for all mankind, and we should always be aware of it. In addition to this finding and this quote, I would like to stress that the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of all three laws confirming the agreement, as well as the National Parks Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35738	Thank you, Mr. Mihajlovic. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35739	Thank you. First of all, at the end of today's debate, I would like to thank all the Members who attended the meeting, who showed interest in the proposed laws in the field of environmental protection, in particular I would like to thank the MPs who took part and in the public debate. I want to point out that I am convinced that all the discussions have been well-intentioned and that from these discussions today each of us can draw some lessons for himself. What I pulled out and what I would like to share with you today, and I haven't had the previous few speakers answer to them, that would be soon next. First of all, I agree with the proposals for public debates to be held in the National Assembly in the future, and that in this way we are even more and more broadly motivated by all MPs to take part in the preparation of new legislative proposals. In this regard, I will suggest that the three laws that are just following us be discussed in the congregation procedure be held for the next few days. These are: Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Environment and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Waste Management. In doing so, I would like to say, recalling that practice when I was an MP, it seems to me that it was a good and thematic meeting in the context of public hearings, when I was the Committee on the Environment on certain topics organised and invited participants who would be a working group from the Ministry of Agriculture, and, of course, all other interested bodies, institutions, MPs. So I think this could also be established in the next period as a kind of practice. I would really like all MPs and all those who are interested to know what we have inherited, what we have done, what is waiting for us. The environmental issues are simply very complex, they are very complex, they include protection and water and air and climate change and industrial pollution and waste water treatment. So, there is a very complex environmental problem, and I propose that, together with the chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection, this kind of dialogue and discussion be organised in the coming period. I find it extremely necessary, especially after today's debate, after which I can conclude that many here are not very well informed of what we have, what we inherited, what we have done and what awaits us all. Also, there was a dilemma - whether it is necessary to change laws often in the field of environmental protection or simply wait for them, and to make some systemic solutions, or longer-term laws, that would be in line with the laws in this area in the EU. I must say that this is simply not possible, given that the directives themselves at EU level relating to individual legal solutions to environmental laws are often changed. It is simply a dynamic category that requires continuous monitoring and continuous installation into legislation and monitoring, i.e. implementation in practice. So we can also discuss this at these proposed sessions that would be organised in the next period. It's been said that we currently have, we've mentioned today several times, about 6.3% of the surfaces that are under some kind of protection. What is good and what MPs have pointed out, in addition to all the reasons why we have proposed this law, is that by adopting this law, I hope that it will be supported by the National Assembly, we get another six thousand acres that will be protected. Of these six thousand acres, a hundred kilometers square is the first regime of protection. This is the area of Zavove, as you know, and I think it is a modest but not insignificant contribution to the current state with which, of course, we are not satisfied, given that we have designed our strategic documents to increase this percentage to 12% or 14% by 2020, and that I am not talking about that optimistic belief that we had when we attended the Nagoja Conference on Biological Diversity and when we thought that we would succeed, like other countries, to raise this percentage to 17% in 2020. I believe that the contribution to protected areas will also be the issue of the Cave High, which has been mentioned by several MPs. As for the proposal that this area, in view of its biodiversity, geonasity, etc., of the particularly preserved population of wild flora and fauna, be subject to protection, I must say that appropriate studies have been prepared in the previous period and we expect that the cave highlands will be declared nature park by the end of this year. We, of course, didn't stop at that. It's simple, we analyze other possibilities, and it's in the perspective that with Uvc the Caverska visorvan is another of our national parks. That's what studies are about. We are very committed to this job, precisely for these reasons that I have cited, the desire to protect as many areas of Serbia as possible, to preserve them and to hand them over to generations to come. As for the ecological network, someone mentioned it, and it was a dilemma whether and how much the state deals with the ecological network, not the state, but the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, since we are part of the state, means both the state and the Ministry. I have to say, it's not true that the environmental network deals only with NGOs, deals with the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment, deals with both nature protection offices, so both republican and regional. Proposals for the establishment of the ecological network have been prepared and established. This year we've allocated considerable funds, about 17 million dinars to establish it on the ground. The plan is to also allocate funds over the next two years with the aim of bringing up the project as soon as possible and implemented in practice. Also, questions whether we will be able to protect national parks with proposed legal solutions have been based on other grounds. One of those basics is the issue of infrastructure. Someone expressed concern, or said that it was better to deal with infrastructure than with these issues defined by law, which someone thinks will not be realised in practice. I mean, that's not true. We've dealt with all the issues of national parks. We have been working to determine the nature protection measure, the nature value protection measure through the establishment of a monitoring system, through the establishment of a system of management of natural values. When it comes to infrastructure in particular, first of all, the infrastructure is in the jurisdiction of local self-government, but you can see and read Article 24, it is intended to provide additional funds through the dedicated transfer to local self-governments that they could use to improve the current state of infrastructure in the area of national parks. The government will establish the amount of dedicated funds, criteria and criteria for their distribution at the expense of local self-government, which will then be required to invest those funds where they are intended. They were heard from the last speakers of questions in the area of agriculture. Some questions have been repeated, i.e. questions that have been heard before and which I have already given an answer to. I wouldn't answer that again. Let me just say briefly that MPs who were interested in issues of bluetongue, what is the current situation and what has been done in the previous period, that we will give them a written answer, which will prepare professional services, in line with what they have said is important to them. It's also about getting vaccines and taking vaccinations and everything that followed the previous year when this disease was diagnosed and there was an alarming condition. We acted responsibly at that point in fact on the ground. I simply want professional services to provide accurate and accurate information to our MPs who are interested in it. Another question from agriculture that I have not answered, which concerns putting certain agricultural holdings in passive status. It's some 250 agricultural holdings. The question is, what is it, what are they now in passive status for? What I'm saying is that passive status was determined as a result of inspection supervision, when inspection checks established that the accounts, which these holdings tried to exercise their rights to subsidies, were initiated by a company that has long since existed, that we're not saying that the accounts weren't valid. Thus, of course, they cannot exercise the right to grant, and inspection according to legal norms and with what the law requires them to resort to this measure, means putting land in passive status. I singled it out as something that was different from what you had heard in the first part of the session and what I had already responded to. Once again, I thank you warmest, most sincerely for your interest, for your attention, for your discussion, and continue on Monday with the amendments. Of course, we will carefully analyse all your amendments and all that is in the spirit of the law, and the content of the amendments will, of course, be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-02-0.u35740	Thank you, Madam Minister. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 6 to 9 of the agenda. I, Madam Minister, thank you and your associates for participating in today's session, and we can move on. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to suspend the functioning of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds by the President of the Committee on Finance. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Veroljub Arsic, chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Balint Pastor, president of the parliamentary group of the Duke Hungarian Union, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE CONTAINING OF THE PARLAMENTAL COMMITTEE FOR SSTALISATION AND ASSOCIATION You have adopted a proposal for a decision taken by the President of the National Assembly, Maja Gojković. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. I thank the messengers for their participation in today's session. Continuing Monday at 10:00 p.m.
