ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40520	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the session. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 119 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that they have justifiably been prevented from attending the sittings of the next MPs -- Olga Batic and Zoran Zivkovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in points 3 to 6 of the agenda. I would like to inform you that Prime Minister Aleksandar Antić is attending the session today, as well as acting as assistant foreign minister, Ambassador Dragan Momčilović, Ambassador Dragan Župavac, Ambassador Slavoljub Caric, Ljiljana Zarubica, Lidija Lakčević Zivlaković, Marina Lozar and Jasmina Pekmezovic, authorised to attend today's session. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the operation of paid jobs of members of the family of diplomatic or consular representative offices, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on the Elimination of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports and the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on Succession and the consolidation of bilateral contracts. Minister, do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40521	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, allow me in the shortest possible, since this is objectively not a matter which is subject to the examination of the ministry's resolution that I am dealing with, but as an authorised representative of the Government, to try to pass as soon as possible these four draft laws on the validation of agreements or international conventions on the agenda of today's Assembly. I will start, of course, from the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Finance and Training of Mercenaries. The SFRY Convention was signed on 12 December 1990. In March 2001, the SRJ, as a legal principal, confirmed it remains a signatories of the convention. What is important is to point out that 33 countries have ratified this Convention so far, four of which are members of the EU – Belgium, Croatia, Italy and Cyprus. Also, Germany, Poland and Romania signed the convention, but did not ratify it. By confirming this International Convention, the Republic of Serbia would be classified as a group of countries that are recruiting, using, financing and training mercenaries sanctioning a criminal act and as a morally unacceptable form of war. What is important is to point out that in October 2014 in addition to the Criminal Code, this parliament prescribed two new crimes related to the participation of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in war or armed conflict in a foreign country or the organisation of participation of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in war and armed conflict in a foreign country. These amendments to the Criminal Code de facto, the Republic of Serbia has adapted its legislation to the key elements of this Convention, which means that by ratifying this Convention itself, Serbia would not be in a position to change its legislative framework and to change its criminal justice system, i.e. this Convention, in itself, represents a logical trail of events and to confirm what is already part of our criminal law. The implementation of such a legal project does not require additional resources and, of course, this law would come into effect on the eighth day since its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". When it comes to the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the conduct of paid jobs of family members of diplomatic or consular representations in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would first of all like to point out that the agreement with the Government of the Republic of Romania was concluded on 14 July 2015, that the notes between the foreign ministries were exchanged and that these two notes consist of the agreement in question, that the agreement was based on a reciprocal basis and allowed employment with the compensation of members of the family of the diplomatic and other staff of the State and the appointment in accordance with the internal regulations of the State of reception. De facto, it's something that has become international practice. Such agreements are increasingly signed between states because they primarily come from the fact that, in practice, diplomatic and consular representations have been observed and it has been known that the spouses in the DKP do not want to "track" their partners from the inability to make themselves professionally effective because of their obligation to lose their jobs in their homeland, that they do not have that kind of socialisation. All of this, of course, is being maintained negatively on employees of the DKPs, so that these agreements, I repeat, become a practice. The Republic of Serbia has so far signed such agreements with 14 other countries -- with Canada, the United States, the Netherlands, Spain, Belgium, Argentina, Slovenia, Israel, Macedonia, Turkey, Portugal, Switzerland, Finland and finally Romania. With Albania, Germany, Italy, Brazil, Australia, France and Ukraine negotiations are under way to conclude these agreements. When it comes to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic official passports, I would first of all like to point out that Serbia has diplomatic relations with Georgia since 1995, that these political relations with Georgia are good, that Georgia has not recognised the independence of the southern Serbian province, that they have not done so in addition to numerous international pressures. The reasons for this are, of course, in addition to the friendly relations that exist and the fact that Georgia has similar problems with Apcasia and South Ossetia, that relations with Georgia are traditionally good, friendly, not sufficiently developed, that with Georgia we do not have a large number of internationally signed contracts, that the level of economic co-operation and potentials can be improved and that this is one of the steps that goes in this direction. What is the fact that we and Georgia had a full visa regime, that the Georgian Government made a unilateral decision in 2011 to lift visas for our citizens for a stay of 365 days. Because of the visa regime, the Schengen Agreement, we were not able to respond reciprocally to such a measure, that the negotiations were under way, to say, certain types of liberalisation since 2013. Finally, an agreement has been reached concerning diplomatic and official passports of a reciprocal nature, which are exempt from the visa regime by holders of the applicable diplomatic and official passports of Serbia and Georgia until they obtain visas for entry, transit and stay on the territory of the other side for 90 days from the date of first entry. Finally, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the succession and consolidation of bilateral contracts was concluded by exchanging diplomatic notes between the Embassy of the Republic of Finland in Belgrade and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 15 April 2015. The two countries' agreement found which contract concluded between the SFRJ, SRJ and Serbia-Montenegro, on the one hand, and the Republic of Finland on the other, remains in force in relations between the two countries. In this way, the terms of the contract were also resolved after 1992, and before the independence of the Republic of Serbia was achieved in 2006, and a basis was created for the conclusion of new bilateral agreements in areas of interest for both countries. It is a contract between the SFRY and the Republic of Finland on the avoidance of double taxation, an agreement between the SFRJ government and the Government of the Republic of Finland on transport in international road transport, an agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and Fin Vera on behalf of the Republic of Finland on certain commercial loans. The law stipulates that the competent authority for the implementation of the Agreement is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that, of course, the Agreement enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger. I thank you for the attention and great interest you've shown for these four laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40522	Thank you, Minister. You made me laugh, so I can't go on. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Do the presidents, or do they want a word? The word has a master's degree, Djordje Kosanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40523	I hope to have a little more attention when I talk about this. We have a number of draft laws before us and this proposal for a law on the approval of the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Finance and Training of Mercenaries. Then, the draft legislation confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania, the Government of Georgia, the Government of the Republic of Finland and two decisions on granting consent to the financial plan of the electronic media regulator for 2015 and the financial plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. My presentation today will focus on the proposal for a law confirming the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Finance and Training of Mercenaries. I will talk about this topic at the very beginning and I will return in time to the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and to the severe war conflicts at its premises, certainly opened the door to all radical doctrines, especially nationalism and radical Islamism. The conflict in the Middle East when it comes to the Balkans has been the most involved by people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Metohija, Albania, and for the arrival of dozens of citizens from Macedonia, Montenegro and certainly Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is still not considered a larger recruiting base, although we have increasingly frequent cases of departure and attempts to recruit our citizens. What is important is to point out, unfortunately, the increasingly frequent participation of women in war conflicts. The reason it's common is more. The primary rely on the surprise factor. Children's abuses in war conflicts are becoming more and more common. This requires that through a system of education, discussion of potential dangers and drastic consequences for their safety and certainly life. This problem must be seen from a number of angles and it is not enough to sign sanctions, but it is important that we act preventively to combat this trend that does not lead to anything good. I will return to the convention itself, it should be said that it prohibits recruitment, use of funding and training of mercenaries who only act as mercenaries and should be considered a criminal offense as well as recruiting international co-operation in order to prevent those crimes, their prosecution and certainly, once again, I say prevention. Otherwise, the convention itself was adopted in New York in 1989. For the UN member states, the convention has been opened since December 1990, as did the former SFRY, and it came into force in October 2001, and at the time the SRJs whose legal instructions were the Republic of Serbia have confirmed that it remains a signator of the mentioned convention. Otherwise, the convention itself was signed by 33 states. All Member States which ratified this Convention shall adopt legal frameworks in which they will systemise criminal offences involving the legal acts of all perpetrators to which this legal framework applies. Serbia did so by adopting the Code on Creature Code Supplements in October 2014 and thus contributed to the prevention of terrorism and terrorist acts as a result of the organisation of recruitment, funding, various multinational extremist nationalist and fundamentalist groups and certainly individuals. I'm here to say that JS fully supports the fight against terrorism. It's terrible what happened in Paris, but I want to say that we want to call what happened in Paris the same name as what happens in Kosovo and Metohija. Finally, I would like to say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support both the bill I spoke about and the other draft laws in this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40524	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40525	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Assembly, respected Ministers Antić, as the authorised representative of the SDPS parliamentary group, out of four draft laws that ratify international agreements, pay special attention and I will speak exclusively about this first proposal, and this is the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention against Recruitment, Use of Funding and Training of Mercenaries. I will say immodestly that the SDPS parliamentary group has even more responsibility for discussing this issue because, less than a year ago, on October 10, 2014, precisely on the SDPS proposal, we have carried out amendments and additions to the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, which introduced two new crimes, against humanity and other goods protected by international law and this criminal act of participation in war or armed conflict in a foreign country and the criminal act of organisation and participation in war or armed conflict in a foreign country. Thus, through these amendments and additions to the law, the state of Serbia ranks in the ranks of those countries that increase their international credibility and respect the international commitments undertaken. With these changes and additions, we have improved our criminal and legal legislation. I think it is important that, as a responsible society, as a state with its legal mechanisms and instruments, we act on an increasingly pronounced security phenomenon of radicalisation and recruitment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia for participation in foreign conflicts. We have been witnessing for the past few years, unfortunately, the participation of citizens of the Republic of Serbia on foreign battlefields, and most importantly are Syria and Ukraine. It's important that in just over a year's time, we have managed to achieve what was our original goal. So we discouraged and put into the same plane all those who intended or were already on one of these battlefields that what they did was a crime. Unfortunately, I still have no record of how many of those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who participated in some wars have returned to Serbia and have been processed, whether they have been subject to indictments in accordance with new criminal legislation, or whether the prosecution has responded and at what stage, but we are likely to discuss it in one of the coming days. This Law on Confirmation of the International Convention should be sincere, late, when it comes to being a state, because in 1999 the international community ratified and adopted this Convention, more precisely on 12 December, since 12 March 2001, the Republic of Serbia as a Successor of the former SFRY has confirmed that it remains a signator of this Convention and only today, at the end of 2015, it is in front of us, the MPs and we, I am confident, confident in the day of voting and ratification, and thus confirm what I said about the credibility of our country and when it comes to the problem of our citizens going to foreign wars, because these legal solutions and confirmation of this Convention, we will also demotify the departure of foreign citizens in crisis areas. What I want to point out, I think, when it comes to terrorism, when it comes to the greatest challenge facing the modern world, and therefore our country and region, because I will remind you, right from the countries of the former Yugoslavia, of our region, of dozens and hundreds of people, are somehow engaged in some of the foreign wars. That is why it is impossible, to be honest until the end to define by regulation and I would say, to prescribe and predict all possible situations, especially not in this area, and I will remind you, in this area, neither scientific theory nor practice have yet managed to define all this that we are talking about, which is the problem of the modern world, clearly and precisely define, because there are no generally accepted nor criteria in terms of armed conflict, in terms of how one armed conflict is defined in a particular part of the territory of any country in the world. We are also witnesses, after all, reading the newspaper, listening and watching radio and television, participating in various, various international gatherings, attended by both the most relevant and the largest countries in the world, that one of the relevant actors on the international scene is committed to something that happens in one part of the world, as a liberating struggle, and others sanction it either by means of terrorism or separatism. Unfortunately, in Serbia, too, the best we felt in our own case was the lack of generally accepted criteria, what I want to highlight, and what I think through the ratification of this Convention and through the full application of the laws we adopted a year ago and in Serbia, those shortcomings that are present in the daily press will be eliminated. We need to clearly and precisely define who these people are. Don't let some of us fight that they're volunteers, and some of us call them terrorists. Some are mercenaries, some are war dogs, some are separatists. So when it comes to the law that we have adopted and applied, they are all breakers of the law. So, for the state of Serbia, for the legal instruments, for the prosecution and for all of us, those are the breakers of the law. They are breaking the law that we have passed, and you can call them one way or another, they are committing a criminal act that we have introduced into our criminal legislation, and I think that in this way Serbia has shown itself to but also to the world, that through this ratification that is now on the agenda, after 33 countries, only four EU countries, Serbia is entering the line of those countries that understand the dangers, all the coincidences, understand all the monsters, evils and problems, what is called participation in foreign wars. I would like to remind myself of another UN Resolution, which is Resolution 2178, which stresses that terrorism cannot, nor should it be linked to any religion, to any nationality or any civilization. The same resolution confirms that members must ensure that all measures taken in the fight against terrorism are in accordance with international law provisions. It is also seen through resolutions and through this Convention, which we will adopt, that terrorism cannot be overcome only by military action and legal provisions, but rather by intelligence and therefore by comprehensive coordination and co-operation of security services. Member States are invited, of course, through both these resolutions and conventions to co-operate to prevent terrorists from using modern technology, and at the very end, of course, that the Security Council condemns all types of extremism and requires terrorists to disarm and suspend all terrorist actions of participation in these conflicts. I think that through the law that I was talking about, we've already made a big step, we've shown the modern world, and those countries that have ratified this Convention long before us, that Serbia is ready to deal with this great evil and with the pestilence that has hit us. We still don't have accurate data on the number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, citizens who are on the battlefields, neither in Syria, nor in Ukraine, but what we can argue is that after the adoption of this law, after defining the new two crimes, the number of those who went to that side of the battlefield is negligible, or can be put on the fingers of one hand. Of course, I expect our judiciary, first of all, to think about the prosecution, to react in good time when those citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who participated in these foreign wars, re-emerge in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and they must be prosecuted, must be responsible for the criminal act of participating in a war on other territory, and they must be sanctioned for what they have done and they must ultimately answer before the law and the state of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, I will not talk about other conventions, and the SDPS will vote in the day, not only support this Convention, but will support other international agreements that will be on the agenda and which we will vote on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40526	The word has been given by MP Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40527	Dear Mrs. Gojkovic, distinguished Minister Antić with his associates, although from the second ministry, but also from you, fellow Members and fellow MPs, with all due respect for the events that are ahead of us, the OSCE ministerial summit, I think that the timing of these points should have been adjusted so that the minister should finally be with us, that he can defend these laws, although you have read it very well. As far as the laws are concerned, I think it's something that needs to be adopted, which fits into everything we've discussed before and talked about. When it comes to this first law, the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention against Recruitment, etc., this should be adopted, regardless of the circumstances, and there is no Ukrainian crisis, that there has been no Arab Spring and all events in the Western Balkans, this should have been adopted. But we are now in an additional specific situation, because there is a real possibility that even from Serbia's space they are recruiting, and according to some information and training, soldiers, mercenaries, as already called, for the war in Syria. As for the second law, on confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Romania in dealing with the paid jobs of family members, I think this is a very important law. I had this particular problem as an ambassador to Sweden, when my first secretary's wife got a job, and there was a problem, so she had to change diplomatic passports with a regular passport, etc., etc. Of course, this is fine. This is what many countries have, and countries that don't have, say, Sweden, where I've served, there's nothing like this, then families get separated. Because, given the receipts that are there, it's not worth getting down to a quarter or half. In any case, this should be accepted, but I think that the additional regulation of Serbia, i.e. through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, should regulate the conditions when, however, some kind of consent of the ministry should exist for this type of employment while marriage mates, spouses or husbands are serving at diplomatic and consular representations. Next law -- an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. If I'm not mistaken, we had a problem. The problem was also met by some members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delegations, that we had abolished visas for regular passport holders and when they were there at the airport with diplomatic passports, they were asked for a visa. I think that's where Moldova belonged, if I'm not mistaken, and Georgia. I don't know why this is so late, as well as this last one, about the succession and consolidation of bilateral contracts with Finland? These are all agreements that need to be confirmed. But I have to realize that a lot of things are coming to the Serbian Parliament, and when it's all settled, prepared, with a great delay, I don't see any reason why the Foreign Ministry is so late about many things. Here's, let's say, this visa waiver bill, which we decided six, seven months ago, maybe more, on the Foreign Affairs Committee. Generally, I don't think that co-operation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the National Assembly of Serbia is great. I'm just going to give you one last example. All those who were ambassadors, bearers of these functions, and defend the thesis, know how it went in the past, for 20-30 years. For the first time this year, when we had thesis defence, or a conversation with ambassadors appointed for Germany and Norway, all the materials were marked "confidential", the session was closed to the public for the first time. Of course, when such things happen, it automatically comes to the public, it's thought that something is hiding, something's wrong. I must commend this Committee president and the other members of the ruling coalition who had understanding and opposed this, so that the next session was organised in another way. The foreign ministry, specifically Minister Dacic, owes us a report on the work. The last one was a long time ago. I say again, with all due respect for what's going on, with all the problems and activities our country's been having, it should be done by the end of the year. It's usually done in a larger room and it's very good quality discussions. I'd like to point to other ministry failures. It's not convenient to discuss what's happening in Libya, but I think there are major gaps made, as well as material violations of the rules, and that we are one of the few countries that has an embassy in Tripoli. It's a disaster. Not to mention the events at the consulate in Milan. The new law on foreign affairs will need one clause, one member to contain. It's not just about calling diplomatic activity, we need to look at all aspects of the candidates, and we can't have people having problems, who are crucified between various problems, family, financial, etc., going and embarrassing our country abroad. The competition for assistants, as far as I know, has not been completed and nonstop since the formation of the government, the assistants are in "vd" condition. This should be done urgently, and I think it's also a very important thing. Finally, there is a shift in the appointment of ambassadors and general consulars, because we haven't had in very important countries for years, I mentioned Germany already, and now Greece is the next one that has not recognised Kosovo, some of which exist, but I appeal that the ministry is engaged to speed it up a little bit, so that all important destinations have ambassadors. There's also a fellow Parisian, who performed this function very successfully in Athens, and we know how important it is. In the context of the event, Kosovo's request for admission to UNESCO, etc., it is very important that we have ambassadors in these key places and that it does not happen to us, let's say, that Greece be restrained, that some country we expected there, that we do not specify which countries it is, be against or leave the hall before the vote. To conclude, our SDS-ZZS-ZS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group will support these laws because they are in line with all movements of international, international practice, diplomatic practice, but we suggest that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be much more agile and that many start-ups, as well as those that have not even started in the shortest time. I was only talking about diplomatic activity here. Unfortunately, there are internal organizations, happening within the house itself. I will not mention the words "oldlet" and what I know, for which to use Vujaklia and look for definitions. There are a lot of problems inside the house, and I think the interior organization of the ministry also deserves a lot of attention and that should be done in the coming period. I finally thank you for letting me say all this, even though I'm a little bit, I admit, out of the picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40528	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40529	I feel at least the need to react a little to what the honourable MP Mr. Constantinović said, with the agreement that these laws, i.e. the confirmation of agreements and conventions, are long waiting both in the government and in parliament, but I ask that it be understood that this is not an emergency but simply procedural reasons. I want to say two things about these issues of internal organization and work at the Foreign Ministry. There are representatives of the Foreign Ministry who will, of course, pass it on to both the minister and their colleagues, but I think at the end of the day, even at the moment, we shouldn't be too critical of the Foreign Ministry. At the end of 2015, the year in which de facto Serbian diplomacy was indeed at the height of the task, facing different challenges and different situations in which it was in place, began with the OSCE presidency, which by all estimates, all international factors, was done in an absolutely professional, politically measured way, through all those struggles that, in the name of the Republic of Serbia, our diplomacy, together with the state summit, led and ultimately achieved good results. I have to remind both UNESCO, and all of the one activity that I repeat, the state leadership, the foreign minister, the entire foreign ministry, have realised in order to achieve this result that we have all assessed together as important to our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40530	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Stojadinović, you have no right to replica at this time. You can only be at the end of the debate. [[Ninoslav Stojadinović, from the place: It is not a replica.]] The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40531	Thank you. The convention against recruitment, use of financing and training of mercenaries and three ratifications of the Agreement with Romania, Georgia and Finland are good news for the legislator for at least three reasons. The first is that the texts of the proposal and the ratification of the agreement are clear and undeniable. The second is that by deciding on this, we are promoting our bilateral, multilateral co-operation with countries that are either the subject of an agreement that we ratify or already signatories of the Convention against Recruitment, Use of Funding and Training of Mercenaries. Thirdly, it is possible to talk about the application of these agreements and conventions with good skill that we have already amended Criminal Law on the proposal of the SDPS MPs. By ratifying this Convention, we fully round all the necessary instruments to apply the law and the Convention. It's just a dyspression. We have conventions signed, ratified, that require amendments to the law. That's the way she is, for example. Istanbul's Convention on Combating Violence Against Women, which requires amendments to criminal laws or the European Court of Human Rights manual on baby theft, which also requires changes to criminal laws. This kind of parallel work that has already been done at the Convention against Recruitment, Use of Funding and Training of Mercenaries gives hope that we will do these other two serious jobs and raise the credibility of our country that we are not only on the words for ratification of conventions, but on amendments to domestic legislation, and then on application, regardless of which convention we have internationally referred to by domestic legislation. So first, quite briefly, on three agreements that sound routinely, but which solve many problems with both Finland and Romania and Georgia, not only for members of the foreign ministry or for families of those who, according to the ministry's decision, are in diplomatic and consular representations in Romania or travelling to Georgia or rounding up previous co-operation with Finland. And now the second crackdown, it is conveniently time-consuming that today, apart from two other documents, we round up ratifications of co-operation with Finland, given that the OSCE Council of Ministers is currently being held, that Finland, which hosted the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in June of this year and someone who proposed the Helsinki 40 Plus document together with Serbia and Switzerland, is in order to mark 40 years since 1995 and the famous third basket on the Helsinki Charter of Human Rights. I will return to human rights when I try to explain to all of us what the application of this Convention means, because I believe that both today, tomorrow's and the day-to-day meetings with seven OSCE foreign ministers in Belgrade should be dedicated to raising the human rights issue on the list of priorities and returning to the first place they require, in itself, as recommended by Helsinki 40 plus, and that during the chairmanship of Serbia, the OSCE was created, investing energy, knowledge and skills in dialogue with Ukraine and investing energy, knowledge and skills in better management of the migrant and refugee crisis, which, not as a wave, spit on Europe, but as a river. This is why it is good that, as soon as possible, on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we do ratifications of all bilaterals that concern or inherit agreements that we said, after a succession, that we accept them or new agreements with countries, not only the OSCE, the region or the EU, but countries at all. The experience I have in the OSCE and in collaboration with the representatives of the DKP through the OSCE, the region, in this country, is that you rarely find people like members of the Foreign Ministry who, in impossible circumstances, have actually done their jobs professionally, and that is the third crackdown. By 2006, it was incredibly difficult to be a representative of the foreign ministry, whether you come from Montenegro or Serbia and what kind of policy you represent, and only of the skills of the people who were there was the reputation of the then state community and later Serbia grew. Not to mention 10 terrible years when our diplomacy was completely excluded from European and worldly flows, and when, with the skills of knowledge and the will of members, it returned to the world by proving every day that it was in this world and its place. It's not a small thing, not because it's said by someone who belongs to the opposition, but because there's very little to talk about and because it's meant to be a routine thing. If you look at other countries and their members of the Foreign Ministry, you will see that it is not so often that someone manages to block them completely, without any dialogue, return to a lot of light, to the international foreign policy scene. And I'm going to add another digression here, given that I'm going to have amendments to the upcoming budget that are increasing funds for the Foreign Ministry for a lot of good reasons, and that I'm going to announce that every kind of savings obligation for the Foreign Ministry to refuse by arguing that for 10 years, when we've been eliminated from foreign policy, we haven't traveled anywhere, we haven't spent anything on foreign policy, and we've saved a lot of money, we've saved a lot of money. In 2001, we saw how much we've saved, so I can't tell if it's going to be successful, but I think the amount of funds and the budget's attention at the Foreign Ministry is not adequately small and that dialogue has to be conducted, so if it works right now, great, if not, here I am next year on the budget. And these are general places for the ratification of agreements that we sign with countries like Georgia, Romania and Finland, and I hope with other countries to conclude one part as the contents of inherited contracts, commitments and all that our diplomacy has suffered during the 1990s and beyond. The Convention against Recruitment, Use, Funding and Training of Mercenaries, an important convention, and it is important that all those involved in this illegal work, all those who claim to be a mercenary, and all those who for various reasons popularise paydays, say what this Convention and the criminal law of Serbia means as punishment for these illegal acts. So, the definition of what's a mercenary? The payer is a person, A - specifically recruited in a country or abroad for the fight in armed conflict, B - who is motivated to participate in hostilities for the purpose of achieving personal benefit and who is, in fact, in the name of or by a participant in the conflict, promised material compensation which is significantly greater than the compensation promised or paid to fighters of a similar rank or position in the armed forces of that party, C - which is not a citizen in the conflict or has a place of residence in the territory that controls the conflict, D - which is not a member of the armed forces, parties to the conflict and E - who did not refer to a state that is not party to the official duty or as members of its armed forces and members of 2. It is also defined that any person who recruits the use of finance to train the mercenaries defined in Article 1 of this Convention to commit a criminal act in the sense of this Convention and makes the criminal act of the Republic. What is my accent and contribution to informing the people who listen to us during this debate, and especially the executive authorities that are supposed to apply this law? Some colleagues like Meho Omerovic have already mentioned that the subject of mercenaries regardless of being regulated by criminal law, and will now be this convention for which I will vote, of course, as well as agreements. It is not treated that way in public, and that is why it is important to remind me that for all the press and all the media other than the Internet, the Public Information and Media Act applies, and that every promotion of mercenaries, every cheerleader, and so-called analytical writing about being a mercenary somewhere, also implies a criminal act, and this must be done not by this law, not by this convention, but by the Law on Public Media and Information. We have the delusion that only public services are obliged to comply with the provisions of the Public Information Act and the media. It says very clearly in the laws relating to public information and media, what is laughing, and what is not allowed during the programme, whether it is electronic media or printed media. The Internet is an exception, whether fortunately or unfortunately, is probably ahead of us to see, but the Internet is not excluded from cyber crime, and since we now have a confirmed convention, that is, we will have it today for the vote and the Criminal Law then it would be very good to be all very careful to root for those who are mercenaries, and called volunteers, because they are likable, ideologically close to them or anyone who is trying to recruit, to popularise, to drive anyone crazy, to join a payer's fight, to know that the Internet is the area to which the cyber crime sector can access. What is our problem with the topic that we are talking about and why is this a relatively new topic in diplomacy and ratification, for diplomacy it is 10-15 years, a relatively short period and how it differs from otherwise international conventions, contracts and laws that treat war conflicts, armed conflicts, crime bans, war prisoners treatment and all that is detailed in international law? We live a time when it stopped being clear both in foreign policy and in mutual bilateral, multilateral relations with whom is the enemy, who is not? It used to be called chivalrous time, it's known who wants to take the land, the treasure or the daughter, and they fight, and they stab the flags, and they kill so many people, and they know who's black, who's white, who's winding for whom. I'll give you an example of how right I am with the question - who's good and who's bad in Syria? What we don't know or do not deal with, it's less of a problem than that that doesn't even know about international foreign policy, which you have different shades of gray in what I call all the bad guys who participate as mercenaries in causing a conflict in the illegal use of some country's resources in war crimes whose list for the Middle and Middle East will just appear in a few years, they're now happening and now they're recording. So what for now in diplomacy, in foreign policy, is called a non state actor, therefore, participants in armed conflicts that are not state representatives, will be growing. How, then, as a country bound by other international agreements, international law, how do you fight against a non state actor? This convention and the serious application of this convention, as well as the criminal law where you clearly prescribe what a crime is. But I repeat, by speaking to the public where other laws are forbidden that you, because of your fans' passion for a system of values, you're crediting someone who's paid for one war with a positive value, and someone who's paid for another war, you value negatively or you have a negative campaign for one by calling them freedom fighters, and sometimes you call them terrorists the same. There are very serious topics, the way in which work is interpreted, or participation in armed conflicts of mercenaries for one society, and regardless of how I agree that our society is like a post-conflict, post-crisis society, one terrible conflict in the 1990s, which left tragic rates for those who considered it good, who surprised Europe and made world actors make many mistakes. So it's not just about us who have a close memory, it's about foreign policy in general, relations between states, where it's allowed to call the same thing a freedom fighter, and then it's not supposed to refer to him as a mercenary, or that someone who does it for personal benefit because he's part of that non-state actor group, and that's called the same one, the terrorist when he does the same thing. The particular problem is that we in the world have private mercenaries, so we have private institutions that are perfectly legal in your countries where you have members of armed formations of various species that exist in the most legitimate way in countries. They shouldn't be part of this law. That's why I'm not gonna keep my names straight. They're famous, registered, they're public, but they should be bound by the state, and that's what we essentially did in Criminal Law, that every relationship between someone who's a mercenary, with institutions that make a living, earning from renting fighters for various war zones, is also a felony. What is the ultimate goal of applying this Convention and the Law? The ultimate goal is to be a dialogue on why some people go to be mercenaries in wars, the ultimate goal is to open up debates on violence – what makes you happy, making you rich by making acts of violence that you are aware are illegal and what it is that we can do as a country in our foreign policy, that all the risks, that such behaviour be popular, widespread, qualified, valuable in our public life are reduced to a minimum and what it is that we can do in the context of foreign policy, that we can also ensure that our region in cooperation with other countries in the region from the entry of mercenaries of any kind and how to ensure that the International Community, which is often not clear by its content, who and what, indeed, deals with this problem. Now I'm going back to the promise that I'll end up talking about the third basket of Helsinki Act, about human rights. That's why the OSCE and here in Belgrade, which is being held, should talk about human rights, because states can enter conflicts, countries can enter arms on each other's territory, they can war, countries can pay secret channels to pay "non-stean sectors" to commit violence in other territories for a state account, hidden or not, semi-private or private institutions that recruit, train and pay people who are hired to be mercenaries can deal with the pay and finance of those who, for the sake of institutions, works of institutions, informal centres in countries, go to war zones and war zones, but the centre of this law is the one that is being committed to violence. It's a subject of human rights. So someone who's unarmed lives in a war zone in the Middle East, someone who's unarmed lives on the territory of a frozen, now fortunately, conflict in Ukraine or in frozen conflict from the Caucasus through Central Asia or with us. So it's important that we understand that security is indeterminate from human rights and that all this description of the crimes of anyone in the end comes down to the defense of the human rights of one woman, one man, to make sure that they're safe from the fact that the mercenaries are unpunished in her or his neighborhood, and they're committing violence, crimes, whatever. As a result, human rights cannot be applied by reducing them to the core of the general security system. It's the greatest danger of foreign policy in the 21st century to give in to walls, barbed wires, to give in to that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40532	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40533	... that the security guaranteed by the state is possible only if it is realised at the expense of my human rights as members or members of that state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40534	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? The word has a folk MP Stefana Miladanovic, an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia. Here you go, Mrs. Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40535	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, there are four international documents in front of us today that we are discussing, and I will, as an authorised representative of the SPS in my discussion, pay the utmost attention to the UN Convention against Recruitment, Use, Finance and Training of Mercenaries. The last few years have seen the appearance of a number of our citizens organised or self-participated in military and paramilitary formations abroad, and most of them were also a recruiter on their return. It was this phenomenon that led to a group of 199 MPs in the National Assembly to act normally by intervention in the area of criminal law. Last year, in December, we introduced two new crimes - a criminal act of participation in war and armed conflict in a foreign country, without the person being a citizen of that foreign state, as well as a member of an official mission of an international organisation whose Serbia is a member and self-organised and involved in war and armed conflict in a foreign country, which is why we foresaw the punishment of prison from one to eight years. Also, we have predicted that anyone, in order to carry out this crime in Serbia's territory, recruits and encourages, organises a group or trains another person or a group to carry out this crime, equipment or to make equipment available, or gives, or collects funds for the execution of the crime, a sentence of two to 10 years in prison is foreseen. With this law of the state, we can say, it was clearly determined according to this problem. The UN Convention against Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries, which is on the agenda today, has signed the SFRY in 1990, and Serbia as a legal supersect gave a surplus statement on signature in 2001 when this Convention came into force, and we hope to ratify this Convention on Friday and Friday. The Convention gives us the definition of mercenaries and incriminates exactly the acts that we have entered into our Criminal Code and then, as today, we still use the opportunity to address this global problem, I can say, look at it with special attention. History has shown that no century in human civilization has passed without conflict, and different motives have been in the history of these conflicts, but there have always been paid warriors. Yet, the reasons for the situation of the conflict that we are witnessing today have far more extensive consequences. We are aware of the daily destruction of states, mass migration and tragic human destiny. Many silent conflicts may say, the waves of national and religious awakenings as fronts for the realization of some geostrategic projects of control and use, in fact, the need to control and use natural resources in the world trigger daily wars and create markets for mercenaries, or paid warriors known as war dogs. Globalisation has led to mass mobilization of social activities, i.e. mass exchange of ideas. All the benefits of the modern world are being used and encouraged, but the spread of monsters help us to make it just globally difficult to stop. Today's availability of ideas to masses, the widest audience is a channel for manipulation, and it's the very channel that's hardest to control and control. We have a large spectrum of motives for participation in conflicts. They used to be economics. Most often religious or racial and national and self-mobilization ways to participate in these wars are increasing. It is precisely this convention that is one of the tools for countering recruitment. The convention, which was actually signed over 25 years ago, shows us that the international community had and recognized, in fact, that this phenomenon that we're talking about today can release its roots and practically become a global problem. Unfortunately, there are few UN member states that have ratified this Convention. Until today 33 and its ratification, Serbia is classified as a group of those countries that want to meet the problem and prevent the possible consequences of these activities. The harmonisation of domestic legislation with this Convention will not be necessary. We heard this precisely because of last year's changes to the Criminal Law, and that is precisely what confirms the willingness to face modern challenges, and I can also say the risks to which we are exposed as a state, which are not the result of internal opportunities, but global turbulence. The Republic of Serbia is still not considered a recruiting base. We have recorded cases of departure and attempts to recruit our citizens in conflicts in Libya and the Middle East, including Ukraine. In this regard, our neighbours reacted as Serbia in legislation and this suggests further regional co-operation and the whole region's attitude towards this problem. I want to take this opportunity to repeat what I said a year ago when we had on the agenda changes and additions to the Criminal Code. I want to point out the increasingly frequent participation of women in war conflicts that are, to the most extent, victims of manipulation themselves. Women often become co-workers, but also members of militant organisations because of their lack of inflammation, as well as the fact that they are subject to smaller control measures infrequently relying on the element of surprise they become only weapons. However, the most susceptible manipulation is children, and in this sense the state needs special attention and that through the system of education and education, we get to know our youth with all the potential dangers and drastic consequences that can be for their safety and life. By amending the Criminal Law, we have managed to stop the trend of recruiting and seducing and sending our citizens into radical groups, such as ISIS and similar to them. By ratifying this Convention, we send another clear message to the international community, which is that the reputation of the RS cannot be undermined and discredited by the phenomena that this Convention covers and, in this sense, the SPS will vote for this Convention. In addition to this convention, there are three agreements on the agenda today. I will refer briefly to the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the handling of paid jobs of family members, members of diplomatic and consular representations. The area of employment of family members, members of diplomatic missions in relations between the two countries so far has not been legally regulated and there is a mutual interest in regulating this issue, because we can certainly call this a life issue. It is known that the position of diplomatic and consular representatives is based on the 1961 Vienna Conventions, but they are not being resolved by the position of family members in case of paid employment in the country of reception. That's exactly why agreements like this are used. Otherwise, Serbia and Romania have traditionally had a good relationship, especially considering that we established diplomatic relations more than 135 years ago. This agreement is certainly something that will improve the relations of the two states. Of course, we will also support this agreement and the other two bilateral agreements with Finland and Georgia as a parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40536	Thank you, Mrs. Miladanovic. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS, MP Aleksandra Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40537	Thank you. We have four ratifications today, one international convention and three bilateral agreements with Georgia, Romania and Finland. At the very beginning, I would like to refer first to the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Finance and Training of Mercenaries, which was adopted in New York on 4 December 1989 and opened a year to the signing of UN members, which the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia did at the time and signed in December 1990. The convention came into force on 20 October 2001, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, whose legal principal is the Republic of Serbia, issued a succesorous statement on 12 March 2001, confirming that it remains the signatories of the convention. The convention has been ratified by 33 countries so far, so Serbia will certainly be the 34th country in the world to ratify this convention. By confirming this international convention, Serbia will be classified as a group of countries that are recruiting, funding, using and training mercenaries are considered a criminal offense. Also, this Convention falls within the area of international humanitarian and criminal law, so by ratifying it, the Republic of Serbia will contribute to the harmonisation of national legislation with international humanitarian law processes initiated by the International Committee of the Red Cross and Switzerland. This will certainly not be the first time Serbia has shown its full commitment to combating terrorism, as last year as co-sponsors of UN Resolution 2178 in the fight against the Islamic State, Iraq and Levanta, and immediately thereafter, at the initiative of 199 MPs, there has been a change of criminal legislation in two members, who have envisioned a criminal act of participation in foreign wars and the organisation of foreign wartime departures. The amendments to this criminal law were adopted on 10 October 2014, which, within the scope of the 34th crime against humanity and other goods protected by international law, has been characterised as criminal offences. Article 386a. The criminal code says that all persons who are individually involved in armed conflicts, as members of military or paramilitary formations on the territory of another country, whose people are not citizens and are not members of any international mission, international organisations, can receive a sentence of six months to five years, and if they go to wars within the group, the sentence is scheduled from one to eight years in prison. The criminal act of organising participation in the war, in the form of group departures, was regulated by Article 386b of the Criminal Code, where a sentence of two to 10 years for those who organise departures to the side of the war and who also encourage other people to participate in foreign wars. Prescription of incrimination in domestic legislation for these offences, which are provided for by incriminations and Articles 2 and 3. The convention we are discussing today shows that it is not necessary to bring domestic legislation into line in order for the provisions of this Convention to be applicable in the Republic of Serbia as well. What I'm trying to say is that today, when we have an increased global threat to terrorism, because we are witnesses and recent attacks in Paris, where 130 victims of this terrorist act are, and we also have an example of the shooting of a Russian passenger plane over Sinai, where there were 224 victims, of which even 17 children, we show that the threat to terrorism has taken a serious situation globally worldwide. If we look at the situation in our region, the countries surrounding us, we can say that terrorist acts have also happened in some of our neighbouring countries. Let's just remember what happened in Kumanovo, Macedonia recently, and also in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Zvornik and Rajlovac. We can say there were no threats in Serbia. I would like to say that the primary credit for this is a member of the Serbian Ministry of Interior, because they are keeping an eye on the situation and have a stronger control of the borders, as well as measures to monitor returnees from foreign wars that come to the Republic of Serbia. It should be borne in mind that from the beginning of the year until the end of November this year, about half a million migrants have passed through the Republic of Serbia on their roads to Western European countries and no incident has occurred. I would certainly like to commend the work of Prime Minister of the Interior Nebojja Stefanovic, who, by his personal engagement, has contributed greatly to improving police work during this period and making Serbia's citizens feel safe. We also saw some public opinion research, which says that even after the terrorist attacks that took place in Europe, Serbian citizens still feel safe. That shows they trust the police and the M.O.P. When we look at participation in foreign battlefields in the region that are happening, we can see that Macedonian President Gjorge Ivanov said that about 70 Macedonian citizens are in the Syrian battlefields, a spokesman for the police of Kosovo and Metohija said that around 120 members of Kosovo and Metohija returned after participating in the war in Syria, returned to their homes. So these are all potential threats to the security of the entire region. The situation in Serbia is that 26 members, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are at the Syrian battlefields. It should also be said that seven of them have returned and it is estimated that eight have lost their lives. I think the amendments to the legislation that we had last year, and regarding that we characterised as a criminal act of participation in foreign wars, contributed that this figure regarding Serbia was not greater and that under full supervision the police carried out surveillance measures on the persons who returned. That is certainly good, which we can say that now the citizens of Serbia can feel safe and that there is no threat of any terrorist act in Serbia. It is also important to co-operate with the region's countries because fighting terrorism is not possible without co-operation with other countries, and primarily with countries in the region. The Convention also foresees the obligations of the state to co-operate with each other in preventing the crimes established by this Convention and also the obligation to arrest and extradite mercenaries on their territory. I would now refer to the bilateral agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the work of paid members of families of diplomatic and consular representatives. This agreement was concluded with an exchange of notes on July 14th this year. For the last decade, the conclusion of this type of bilateral agreement has become a practice in bilateral relations between countries, because it has been seen that the situation is happening that spouses do not decide to follow their spouses during their duties abroad in our diplomatic and consular representations, for reasons they want to continue to pursue their work, by imposing themselves as a need to assist members of diplomatic staff, not only Serbia but also in other countries. So, the main goal, in fact, of these bilateral agreements is to preserve normal family life and also to meet the needs and marriage partners so that they can do well and work in the country they are in. Also, Article 2, the other thing that is important and the purpose of this agreement is to limit the privileges and immunities for that spouse in respect of certain matters, the scope of the dealings, which are paid in the country in which they are located, and the immunity of the civil and legal and administrative proceedings. This immunity is not applicable to criminals, no immunity from criminal justice is denied. Also, spouses who decide to work in the countries of reception are obliged to pay taxes arising from such income. So far, agreements with 14 countries have been concluded, and nine of them have come into effect, so we can say that there are indeed a large number of our diplomatic and consular representations that have not yet concluded these types of bilateral agreements. This is an opportunity to appeal to the Foreign Ministry to have as many bilateral agreements as possible to make life easier for our representatives abroad. The next proposal is a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. Foreign Minister Mr. Dacic signed this agreement on his visit to Tbilisi on June 2nd here. The aim of such visa waiver agreements is to strengthen overall bilateral co-operation, of course, with expectations that economic co-operation will be improved in particular, which is certainly most important for us. We can say, in connection with Georgia itself, that the level of economic co-operation does not meet the potential and needs of the two states. However, if we look at how this level of trade has gone in recent years, we still see some improvements, as the exchange was 5.3m euros in 2013, and between January and July 2015 about 17m euros. So we already see certain improvements, but there are also potentials in many areas, such as black and colored metallurgy, textile and food industries, construction, tourism, and we hope that this kind of agreement will contribute primarily to co-operation with Georgia's economic plan. The agreement with Georgia is in line with the provisions of the typical visa waiver agreements and the visa liberalisation process with those countries that require a visa to join EU countries. The reason why this happened was that at one point there was a situation for members of Serbia, for citizens of Serbia who have civilian passports did not need a visa to enter Georgia, and for those who have official and diplomatic ones it was necessary, and the reason why the Government of Georgia adopted a unilateral act that abolished visas for Serbian citizens until 15 June 2011 for a stay of 365 days. However, this current agreement that our two governments have actually made shows that the reciprocal character agreement, therefore, applies to all holders of the diplomatic and official passports of both countries for up to 90 days. In the end, I would also like to mention the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the succession and consolidation of bilateral contracts. It is very important to establish which of the contracts concluded on the one hand by the SFRY, SRJ, the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro and the other side of the Republic of Finland, which were concluded after 1992, and before the independence of the Republic of Serbia remains in force. Certainly, here we can see that there are three important agreements that continue to apply before obtaining independence from the Republic of Serbia, so the agreements on avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, the Agreement on Transport in International Road Transport and the Agreement on Certain Commercial Loans signed with "Finer" in front of the Republic of Finland, and on our part by the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro in 2004. Also, I can say for Finland that the level of trade in goods is still low, but that it operates in Serbia around 60 Finnish companies and we hope that more companies will find an interest in business in Serbia, and of course companies working in the Republic of Serbia will find their interest to export certain products to Finland. Since I am today as an authorised representative of the SNS, but I am also chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the work of the Foreign Affairs and Co-operation Committee with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already been mentioned, I would just like to say that we have received a report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is an obligation for the Committee's minister to appear twice a year. In March, Minister Dacic visited the Committee on Foreign Affairs and spoke with members. We expect his arrival in December, which will fully respect the legal legislation that says it is the minister's obligation to appear twice. Of course, we would also like to talk to the minister much more often, but it should be borne in mind that in the course of this year, Serbia has indeed had a lot of important diplomatic activities that we can only praise. Globally, Serbia has only been praised for everything it has done this year to improve bilateral relations with many countries, as well as in the framework of international organisations, the OSCE's primary presidency. We can only be proud of the work as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic, but we can certainly have the words of praise for the OSCE presidency by Minister Dacic. The fact that tomorrow and the day after Belgrade will be the diplomatic capital of Europe can make us proud of everything we've done on the outside-political agenda. The success of UNESCO is not to mention because it is not to achieve circumstances or coincidences, but rather to bear the fruit of hard work. So in voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of ratification of the International Convention and all three bilateral agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40538	I thank Mrs. Djurovic. Since we no longer have a word for it, we are moving on to the order of MPs by application. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. He's not in the O.R. National MP Dragan Shormaz has a word. Here you go, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk about the proposal for a law on the approval of the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Finance and Training of Mercenaries. As some of my colleagues have already mentioned in their speeches earlier, we have passed one law, first in this region, regarding the relationship with mercenaries and which practically puts their activities under crime and punish them according to that law as well as any other criminals. Because when someone is punished by criminal law, it means it's people who commit crimes and as such we all have to have a relationship with them. I also agree with those who have expressed their opinion. My opinion is such that in certain situations the public in Serbia or one large part of the media did not so set against those who committed such crimes, but I hope that in the future, even after the ratification of this Convention, our vote of this bill, they will all start to treat mercenaries in the same way as any other criminal. These people, in order to be mercenaries, have to have certain knowledge, certain skills, so that they can do such a job at all. Serbia and the Serbian people have a great deal of experience with the wars, I must say, unfortunately, some other peoples in Europe, the whole of Europe have, it is a thousand-year-old to say more history of Europe, but some European peoples have succeeded after bitter experiences to deny it, in some way, to avoid it. Here, let's say, the Swedishs haven't fought since 1808, and we know what the standard of both the Swedish states and the society and the citizens and the individuals is today, because there's no greater evil in my opinion than the war and no greater harm can be done to any country or nation than there is war. So people who get certain knowledge, skills in these situations, they use it in different ways. Unfortunately, some of them don't do it for patriotic reasons, but for reasons of profit, even excitement, or I don't know the ways of life they like to lead, but it doesn't have to be a reason to accept from our society of such people, justice, peace with that situation. We have two kinds of people like that in Serbia, even in the region. Some of us have been getting confused, and of course I'm going to talk about recent history, about something that's been going on for the past few years. I'll be honest with you, I didn't hear any of your colleagues say that, but those who went to anyone's side to fight in Ukraine, they embarrassed us, and they went on both sides to fight and they were paid from both sides. We support as a state of territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Ukrainian state, which is normal, and they support ours, never recognised the independence of Kosovo and Metohija and there was no need for anyone to go from here and participate in something that is their internal conflict, we can say even civil war, and there was no need in particular that in some media there is a lot of talking about it, writing, and even some of them were celebrating certain mercenaries as some heroes, heroes, they were sending some messages to Serbia from there, and it is deeply wrong and it is good that we have passed such a law and what such people now cannot do and must be sanctioned by law. Others who are very dangerous at this point and for our society, for our citizens, it's our country that went to participate in the struggles and they mostly went. Most of them, not because they believe in some idea of "Daesh" or Islamic state, but because of money and because they would earn certain material resources there, although some have gone for these reasons others, beliefs were wrong and unfortunately both in our region and in our country were a large number of such people. For example, from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, according to all the data we have more than 300 individuals participated and participated in fighting on the part of the Islamic state. More than three hundred. About 50 are known to have died, 80 are known to have returned, and the rest are still there. We don't have the best record of what's going on with those 80 that came back, although the Pristina authorities claim that they're all being punished, that there's a large number of them in prisons, that they're under control, etc. Thank God our services are working well, so it doesn't happen that they're moving on to our territory to threaten us and we have to take care of it. What happened in Paris shocked me by a survey published yesterday in Serbia, where only 12% of Serbian citizens think Serbia is threatened by what was happening in Paris. It wasn't just what happened in Paris. Much greater damage was done to the Russian Federation, much greater damage, now not to measure how much, but let's say the damage was also done to the Russian Federation by knocking down that passenger plane where 270 people died for doing the same people. So, individually not as the same head, but those who support and work for the Islamic state, who are paid to do so, even some at that airport were directly paid to do so. So in the last month, a few hundred people have been out of this evil, and I'll remind you that I've been here at least ten times in the past two years, saying it's the greatest evil that's outdone us. I didn't notice that I got the support of my colleagues and that they were dealing with it, my colleagues in parliament, and that they talked or warned about it, but we saw other things as problems everyday life, but this is also how dangerous it is. The story of migrants in our house, we know exactly 3,000 of them today, 3,000 of them coming out tomorrow, name and last name, no problem at all. However, those who live among us, who come into contact with this Convention, because they are mercenaries, have certain skills of knowledge, I repeat, desires, motives, so they are much, much more dangerous. In Serbia there were less than 30 people there for two of our citizens we know, they came back before the law was passed and they're here among us, but they're under control, there's no danger of them. There are a large number of those who, we saw what happened on one of these realitys. The media is full of it, let's say these days. It's not like we're responding to that danger as a society in the right way, it seems to me we're not responding. We have one among our citizens, and we have a situation in the region. In Sarajevo today, a bomb was planted one, every day something was happening, there was that tunnel, there was an attack on soldiers, it was all happening before, we had that case in Zvornik when the police station was attacked. All that's going on around us is the immediate threat to our safety. I will remind you of one thing, in Paris most of those who have done so, including those who have been arrested in Brussels and as a network are actually citizens of these countries, European citizens with European passports. One found, it was announced today, both the police and the security services of France, one of them who broke into that concert where the most victims were trained to fire personal weapons training at the French police shooting squad. So, you paid a man, went there and learned to shoot at the shooting squad of the French police. We have to judge things like this. We have to protect, we have to protect, we have to protect our citizens and these kinds of phenomena, and to all these people, we have to be as strict as any criminal in our society. Therefore, although we may seem to be late to some, it is never too late, but to be late for ratification of this agreement, I think it is much more important that we pass the law in time. This, today that we are finishing, which is a great thing for Serbia, and I am glad to see that everyone supports it and that it will be unanimous in the voting day this bill is supported by what is very important, but that as a whole society, and that I will end up in future we must, I repeat, have to condemn such phenomena wherever and wherever they happen. So that's the kind of people we have to punish as strictly as possible. Thank you and in the day for voting SNS and SNS MPs will support this bill, as well as other laws that are on the agenda. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40540	I thank you, Mr. Shormaz. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40541	Thank you. Only a few remarks in relation to the opening statement as authorised representatives of the DS, with a request to take the most seriously into account, regardless of the fact that it is not quite clear and precise written in the provisions of the members of the Convention, which we are fighting against recruitment, use, financing and training of mercenaries. Since I've quoted the first part of Article 1 of this Convention that matches the provisions of our Criminal Code. Now in the debate, Article 2 says that every person he recruits is using, financing or training mercenaries defined by Article 1. The Convention shall constitute a criminal offence within the meaning of this Convention. Why do I ask for this article's interpretation? Both here and the Criminal Law that can be recruited by propaganda, it's not just recruiting personal contact. Someone who wants to hire a mercenary however ideologies for mercenaries are, rather than recruiting and creating public opinion where the mercenaries' work of violence and participation in armed conflicts on the territory of other countries or the act of violence itself is considered acceptable and desirable in some society. If we could understand that creating such a public opinion, that propaganda that is recruited for a value system of money-paid violence or paid by delusions that are so sweet in propaganda. If they understood that it wasn't freedom of speech, I think we'd be able to save many lives and those who are unstable, unpredictable, tend to influence propaganda, decide to be mercenaries, as well as those to whom the violent acts of these mercenaries would refer to the violence they would commit. Why don't I put other provisions in this Article 2, given that it's the same as Criminal Law, to fund or train mercenaries, because it can be separated, when it comes to creating public opinion on the need to hire as many young people, women or men as possible to commit violence on the territory of the same, or other countries. Because it doesn't have to be visible, it means neither funding nor training, but the recruitment of propaganda is both visible and we are sensitive to it, and we who are deeply against the violation of this law and the involvement of people for mercenaries for armed fighting, acts of terrorism or violence, but also those who are inclined to believe that this is something high worth dying for, something sublime is worth killing another human being or something so sublime that can be counted with some sum of money, some kind of gold and silver coins. The dispute I heard as an argument when I talked about this and when it came to the adoption of amendments to the Criminal Law last year, it was that any kind of intervention to popularize wages through the evaluation of ideologies worth dying for would be a threat to freedom of speech, which is incorrect. Freedom of speech is always limited by the freedom of that other being you speak to. As freedom of speech, the law, the forbidden spread of hatred, the forbidden spread of impatience, discrimination is forbidden, the popularization of ideology that degrades other human beings by each of his personal qualities is forbidden, so it should be quite clear that it is far from free speech, any popularity of any pay that we like, because we consider them freedom fighters, and we don't consider them terrorists or consider them mercenaries. Freedom of speech is not a place to be considered such things, if the law defines who is paid and for which crimes are paid, and for those who recruit and train him, it is a duty to answer before domestic courts or in international co-operation with other countries, and for our citizens who commit crimes. The Criminal Law did not give particular warning to those who create campaigns in the media, because it cannot enter and I fully agree with it, but it can be in our joint pressure on consistent application, both the Law on Public Information and the media, and laws that define what is allowed and what is not on the Internet. If we stop appreciating our own freedom of speech, which is hard to win, by believing that freedom to spread hate, lies, slander, propaganda, misleading, usually young people and women and men, is also freedom of speech, not only to prevent crimes that can happen, but not only to help young people who are in danger of propaganda – be a mercenary, but to degrade and threaten their own freedom of speech to say what is acceptable by law, which is socially acceptable and not prohibited by law. I know that the campaign for such or such mercenaries' services will still be, but I consider it my parliamentary obligation, the human obligation to ask us all, that when we see such a campaign, we say, no, on our behalf, not on behalf of those we represent in the Serbian Parliament. It may not seem like a strong enough instrument, but it's enough to start delegating ideas of delusion, enthusiasm, lies and promises of money or glory, if you go somewhere and kill a human being, because there is no glory, and the money is cursed. That's the kind of value system we need to defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40542	The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, and let the MP Balša Bozovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40543	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, at the time of the creation and adoption of this International Convention against Recruitment and Use, Funding and Training of Mercenaries, even in 1989, few of us could assume that, as time goes by, the issues that govern this Convention will become more and more relevant and desecrated. Our people say that war has not done anyone good, but time has shown that there are some, let's call them people, who find their interest in other people's torment, and thus earn their blood money. So this isn't about patriotism, or patriotism, or the obligation to defend the country, because it's not here. This is about people who, for money alone, go around a number of world hotspots and spilling other people's blood, earn money. If we used to just listen that this kind of people existed somewhere in the world, and if it was once a far-reaching notion of wage, the time has come to face daily on the news that one of our citizens left Serbia and went to war on a foreign battlefield. Also, we face news, most often in Europe but also in neighbouring countries, that he is arrested and he, who is suspected of recruiting young people and sending them to war affected areas of certain countries, most often young people facing life and the future. Someone, who knows what and whose interests, sends them with a one-way ticket, most often, to be cannon meat, to be killed or killed. In the era of e-communication desalibration, when virtually there are no barriers to learning or offering everything, to inform about everything, to lie and offer both honey and milk, to offer titles and glory, paradise pleasures and immortality, in this and such era, our children who are connected to the Internet most of the day meet individuals who are in an extremely perfiduous way recruiting fighters, or mercenaries, and for whom whoever goes out of Serbia never comes back again. But this isn't the end of the problem. When the recruited person is returned from the white world battlefields back to the country, only then are post-traumatic syndromes, which most often result in either suicide or mass murder or both, or former mercenaries become persons involved in recruiting, selecting and recruiting new mercenaries, and there is no end to it. This must end, for the sake of our children, ourselves, for the sake of innocent citizens who become victims of returnees, and in the end, for the sake of human and civilizational flows and the principles on which our modern society rests. For these reasons, this international convention must be adopted, because it does not have any political marking, but is exclusively human and civilizational fluids, so I will support this international convention in the voting day, as well as agreements on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40544	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Balsa Bozovic, but he is not in the hall. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40545	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, the international convention we are discussing today, specifically against recruitment, use, funding and training of mercenaries, I think it is a good time to discuss it, given that Serbia is the host country of the OSCE Council of Ministers' Council, so this may be the best way to show that Serbia has an active role to play and that it gives its active contribution to the fight against all forms that can violate security and peace. If Serbia were even ahead of it, I would say, perhaps the best words are in favour of the fact that in this convention, only four EU member states have ratified this Convention so far, so I would say it speaks enough of Serbia. I would disagree with my colleagues if there was a delay, especially if we were to consider this information. What is this convention about? In particular, this Convention prohibits the use, recruitment, training of mercenaries, prohibiting their operation, and most importantly, all of these mentioned phenomena are sanctioned, treated as a criminal offence, which I think is really something good that has to be done and what really needs to be devoted to, that it is actually properly implemented. In the time in which we live, if we consider everything, one global situation, a migration crisis, a number of war hotspots, at all global security levels, I'd say that on a serious test, all security organisations. Also, all international principles in the matter of security are seriously compromised, so such and similar conventions, of course, have come well. But what's even more important than anything is that there must be international co-operation when it comes to fighting for security and peace. It really has to exist, because without it there won't be any results. That security has long been a national category but an international category, it is long known, so I really hope that there will be more and more countries that will ratify this Convention specifically and thus contribute to the preservation of peace and security. There are also three agreements between the government of the Republic of Serbia and Finland, Georgia and Romania. In particular, when it comes to Georgia, it is an agreement to lift visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports. We have so far had almost one absurd situation that persons with a civilian passport did not need a visa, and that persons with a diplomatic passport needed a visa, so this agreement corrects it. When it comes to Georgia, I have to make a point. It is a state that has not recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, and more importantly, perhaps because it happened recently, Georgia voted against Kosovo's entry into UNESCO, so it is something that should certainly be pointed out and commended. So, Georgia has shown itself very practically as our friend, and we all know very well that countries that have not recognised Kosovo, we have to admit it, they are all under some pressure, bigger or smaller, but they are all under pressure, so it is certainly up to us to work and to make efforts with countries that have proved to be our friends, to deepen and improve our co-operation in every way possible. This agreement certainly is a kind of thing. There is also an agreement with Romania, specifically dealing with the paid jobs of members of the family of members of diplomatic and consular representations. In recent years, this has become an international practice, because so far this issue has not been politically regulated. These agreements allow persons working in diplomatic and consular representations to be allowed to work for their family members. It is simply something that is very practical, which is very useful and these agreements are always based on the principle of reciprocity and, of course, as such, are always mutually beneficial. What is the ultimate purpose of such agreements? The ultimate goal of these agreements is to keep the family together, which is, of course, a priority, because in today's time we live rarely who would agree to leave his job in the country and follow his partner, his spouse abroad, and lose his job. So I believe, of course, that this agreement should be supported, as well as all other agreements. In my presentations, I always point out that agreements should always be supported and that there should be as many as possible, because they always open the door to some new co-operation, to develop some new forms of co-operation, such as economic co-operation, which is, of course, the most important to us, political co-operation, so that always agreements should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40546	Thank you. The People's Messenger Biljana Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40547	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I believe above all that the convention we should ratify by adopting represents a document that we will all agree on unanimously. This team, before the convention was signed 25 years ago by the then SFRY, as did the SR Yugoslavia, and thus the Republic of Serbia, as its legal supervisor, did 14 years ago, as explained in the proposal. If I understand correctly, by the very act of ratification, the formal-legal procedure of acceptance is rounded up by signing. As we all remember well here, a while ago we amended the provisions of the criminal law, which you are participating in the army of our citizens of other states, declaring it a criminal offense that is very strictly sanctioned, which is why we have already accepted this convention in fact, so this is now an act of its de jure of legitimacy. A phenomenon known as "dogs of war" has been a figure in the international community for decades. In response, among other reasons, the relevant convention in the General Assembly was adopted 26 years ago. In recent years, however, this phenomenon has not only won at the breadth of everything it implies, but also the consequences of everything that implies incomparably greater and more significant in the entire international community, especially in the areas of our country and its close surroundings. Internal mercenaries used to go to battlefields around the world overly materially motivated, not to say belly after bread. Of course, the legitimacy of their bloody craft has always been highly questionable from a moral point of view, and above all from what this Convention has come into existence as an international legal framework to bring the legislation of the signatories countries into line. Lately, we've witnessed metamorphosis in the motivation of mercenaries. They are no longer primarily motivated by money, but by their religious and ideological beliefs. I believe we'll all agree in the assessment that something less dangerous is if it's about money, than if the primary motive is a deep personal belief. It is particularly problematic when religion, whatever its name is, becomes the most important element of the ideological consciousness of individuals, then groups and entire movements that have been particularly in dramatic growth in recent decades. What today's dogs of war, mercenaries, terrorists or whatever we call them is the complete negativity of the most valuable sacred world called human life. When we have an opponent who simply says, not only is he willing to die, but he's looking forward to dying, then it's an additional difficulty to fight him. If the loss of life for him is no problem, on the contrary even brings honor, respect, and reputation to his family, what can be a factor in preventive conversion? Unfortunately, it seems that legal retribution, of course, is legal, is the only way to combat this extremely worrying third-million-dollar phenomenon, which we have to deal with a lot of engagements at specialist levels of knowledge. One of the directions of activity is as many expert opinions and useful information as possible, which should be constantly publicised to the general public. It is, not only the current imperative, but also the task, without any exaggeration, of historical proportions to which we should not fall, especially we should not allow ourselves to be provoked. Although after a bloody pirate in Paris, we are increasingly hearing the opinion that one of the highest values of the European community is multiculturality, I believe that we will also have the strength and wisdom to prove to ourselves and the whole world that we can be a real little Balkan oasis in which citizens of various nationalities, religious communities live peacefully, respecting and respecting ourselves fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40548	Ljiljana Malušić, a folk MP, has the word, and after her, the MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40549	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with the co-workers of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today I will talk about one convention and three agreements. The first is the bill on the approval of the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Finance and Training of Mercenaries. Since we are a country of EU accession and we are in line with the principles of the UN Charter and the Declaration on the principles of international law on friendly relations and co-operation between countries, we believe that the recruitment of mercenaries is a criminal offence in line with the UN Charter. The Charter, i.e. the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Finance and Training of Mercenaries, was adopted in New York in 1989. The convention was signed by the SFRJ, the SRJ and ultimately by the Republic of Serbia, which is extremely good. The law supplementing the Criminal Code of 10 October 2014 prescribed two new crimes, which is exactly recruiting mercenaries and another work is organising the participation of recruiting and sending around the world. In fact, this is a serious crime, and I hope that our country will respond very quickly and sanction this kind of crime. What's good is that this resolution, otherwise number 44/34, warns the peoples, and we just witnessed what happened in Paris, but I don't understand why only 33 countries signed this agreement out of so many countries in the world, and we're constantly talking about pacifism. There are four countries belonging to the EU. These are primarily Italy, Cyprus, Belgium and Croatia. The three countries signed but did not ratify the agreement, which is Germany, Romania and Poland. All countries should sign and ratify this agreement for the safety of all citizens of this world. Our population is constantly growing and we are witnessing how many people, migrants have passed through our country. Thanks to the ministry and Mr Stefanovic, our minister, we are safe, there is no indication of violation of our rights, neither international nor domestic, but should always be on guard. What is the current and burning problem in the world are, of course, wars, terrorism, here now and mercenaries, and there is something else, drug dealers connected with mercenaries, and it's one of the burning problems in the world, because even governments are collapsing because of it. Of course, this agreement does not require any funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is good. There are three other agreements I'm going to talk about for a while. The first agreement is between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Romania on the activities of family members, members of diplomatic or consular representations. The agreement regulates the payment of family members. The point of this agreement is to bring the whole family closer together. We know the family is the basic cell of society. Research has been done in the world and it has been concluded that if the family is compact, the work effects are much better, which is true. The family is an instigator of everything positive in the world, of course, if it's normal, they're mostly normal. It turned out to be a higher percentage of better work. That is why this agreement was signed on the mutual satisfaction of the two countries. Family members are subject to the tax regime, which is normal, as well as the social giving regime. The agreement is signed indefinitely and also does not need to allocate additional funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The second agreement I will discuss is a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. This agreement was signed on 2 June 2015. For all these agreements, bilaterally, it is important to work to bring the two countries together. That's very good. First they do bilateral, then they do multilateral relations. It's good for the merger, for the strengthening of the economy, for everything, for tourism. What should be said here is that there was one illogicality, which is that citizens, ordinary citizens, who I belong to, were able to enter Georgia without a visa, but that is why diplomatic and consular representatives are not. It was removed, so it was simplified that for the first entry into Georgia there should be a visa, but then there should be no visa. In a 90-day continuum, any representative of a diplomatic or consular office can enter as many times as he wants, cross the border crossings without a visa, which is good. The agreement also does not require the allocation of specific funds from the Republika Srpska budget. Also, the third agreement was concluded between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the succession and consolidation of bilateral contracts. In this agreement, the two countries have established which of the contracts concluded between the SFRY, the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia are still in force. Namely, there are three contracts, and that's good. The first contract refers to the avoidance of double taxation. It was signed in 1986, and it's still a day today, which is great. The second contract was also signed during the SFRY and refers to transportation in international road traffic. The third bill refers to certain commercial loans and was signed during the SRJ, meaning when we were in alliance with Montenegro. It's nice to sign contracts, it's nice to get people closer, that's how good relationships are made. I hope this is one of the options for not having a war in the world. Of course, the SNS will vote for three agreements and for the convention in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40550	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40551	Many esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. General Arsenovic, the Honorable Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I thought I'd give up the discussion, but I'll tell you for one single reason only I didn't, and that reason is out of respect for one of our neighbouring countries, and I simply did not repeat what my colleagues and colleagues said to tell you what it was about. Mr. Minister, in a few minutes, I will tell you about the draft law on the signing of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the work of paid members of the family of diplomatic consular offices. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, it is customary when it comes to such laws on the signing of an agreement, especially for us friendly countries, such as Romania, to say in the context of something of this agreement on the basis of which this agreement was created. As you know, Serbia is a country that has traditionally good and friendly relations with Romania. They're also based on historical tradition. I note, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the history of diplomatic relations, they were established yet long ago in 1841, so 174 years ago, which is not a bit in the history of diplomatic relations. Also two Serbian queens, Queen Natalia and Queen Mary, were of Romanian origin. This confirms that two Serbian ruling houses too, no matter how many different policies led, were aware of where they should go in search of reliable friends. Serbia and Romania were allies in the Second Balkan War, but also in World War I. Let me say one sentence that must not remain undetected, which is that during World War I in the fierce battles fought alongside the rest of 1916, both Serbian and Romanian soldiers shared blood. This has cemented the long-standing friendship of the Serbian and Romanian people, probably of which the Members of Parliament, you are very well informed. During World War II, Romania was a member of the "Source Force", but it did not use it for territorial expansion at Serbia's expense. This also testifies that during the German occupation, the Serbian Banat remained part of the Serbian state even though Hitler offered it to Marshall Antonescu what he refused, saying I quote -- that Romania has no other friends in the environment other than Serbia and that it does not want to spoil relations in the region, finished a quote. And added, if I were on Hitler's I'd leave Serbia alone, finished a quote. During the break-up of Yugoslavia, Romania was restrained and did not make the crisis difficult in the region. With SNS coming to power in the Republic of Serbia and the formation of the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Mr. Aleksandar Vukic and the election of the country's president Tomislav Nikolic, these relations are constantly improving. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, Romania is one of the few countries in the world that has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija for the state and thank them. Also, Romania is one of the few countries in the diaspora looking at the region, and the world has resolved the Serb national minority, to say, the best relations in terms of national relations in relation to the environment and also in relation to European countries. Allow me one more sentence to say that Serbia has never had a better status in overall international relations in the past 25 years. Dear ladies and gentlemen, for these and other reasons, this bill on confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania should be supported. I also call on you gentlemen from a weak opposition to support this law, because at least a little while, even so, you will show your commitment to modernising Serbia in the area of foreign affairs, which is so warmly advocated and implemented by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and Foreign Minister Mr Ivica Dacic and all the Government of the Republic of Serbia, most of the MPs in this National Assembly and most of the citizens almost plebitarian Republika Srpska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40552	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40553	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I support these international agreements with Romania and Finland on members of the family of diplomatic representatives on their employment. Of course, the visa agreement with Georgia, confirming the international convention against recruitment, financing and training of foreign mercenaries. The agreement was in 1989, and we were a people who could feel the consequences of such mercenaries working in various territories where our people live. I think this agreement doesn't apply only to mercenaries, I read it, and I think it's for some people who would be trained inside and who could be trained to destroy, overthrow the government and undermine the integrity of the state, and we are certainly witnessing that these attempts in our country have been made. I'm afraid they'll be in the future, and that's why I'm giving the government the right to confirm this kind of agreement, even though it's not respected in 1989 and in some places so far. What bothered me was that some colleagues here were equating volunteers with foreign mercenaries and volunteers with terrorists that were quite different things. For example, volunteers under international conventions are not sanctioned at all if this is done not out of ideological, not party and other things. Just to remind you that the New Year's Eve, and certainly the General knows, was an army composed exclusively of volunteers. So, you don't always have to take on volunteers, because volunteers can be a good thing. It's not good to compare, in absolute terms, to bring volunteers to foreign mercenaries and terrorists. So there's instinct among certain people who think they're fighting for the right thing, and there's certainly a lot of new people here who are present and who, in a certain way, inherit this tradition, are quite clear to them that NOV was composed exclusively of volunteers as the predecessor of that army could be a unit so-called. Spanish fighters, composed of citizens of then-Yugoslavia who fought as a volunteer unit in Spain. I think that's where I can mention Blago Parovic, etc. I believe the General will certainly support me. So, it's not very convenient for me, it's not even humane to compare to, say, Ce Guvar, the Count of Vronski, Nikolaj Nikolaevich Rajevski with, let's say, some Mervid Jasarevic, Nerdin Ibrić, Enis Omeragic. So it's not very convenient for some colleagues in their exhibitions to compare volunteers with foreign mercenaries, terrorists because they're completely different things. Also, I have to say that terrorism isn't just some kind of natural disease, that there are mistakes. That I feel sorry for all the victims, but I have to say that the victims must be equal and the criminals must be equal in front of the laws of the whole world. So one life of a Bedouin in the Sahara is as valuable to me as the life of a citizen in Paris who was lost in the way he was lost, and I condemn every kind of terrorist attack. But I also have to say that certain forms of terrorism were created as a product of hypocritical relations between the West and the great forces towards small countries and when someone set fire to a rocket a few thousand miles away and hit a wedding with civilians somewhere in Africa, somewhere in Asia. So, one who doesn't have that kind of weapon can, for religious reasons, be able to, for patriotism, put a bomb in a backpack and bring it in and make other innocent people die. So, I think it would cure terrorism that first of all we have to match victims, civilians, civilian victims anywhere in the world, whether they're hit by a rocket or hit by a suicide bomber, for me, it's absolutely the same. For me, every life of every civilian is as valuable to me as the life of a terrorist, a mercenary, a dog of war, as people call it, who only goes out of the idea of killing someone, for me, that kind of life of such people is not worth it, compared to those who have been killed by terrorist acts. We must certainly say that certain types of terrorism appear and because of a poor uneven relationship with all the victims, I will dare say, in certain circumstances, that it can be hypocritical. We certainly know about the case of Milica Rakic who was hit with some tomahawk somewhere from some Mediterranean, Adriatic Sea. Our people aren't prone to revenge, the guy to put a bomb in his backpack and take it away, and get revenge that way. There are nations, there are religions that are willing to do so. Of course I don't support it, but we all have to imagine together and value all the victims in the same way and all the criminals in the same way. Then I believe that terrorism will be less and less. I think, too, that in terms of participation in foreign wars, especially our citizens should be extremely careful and that we should not participate in this, for ideological or any other reason. There's a law that this assembly adopted, which I've had amendments to, and that law absolutely needs to be respected. I must also condemn some of our leaders, and we are often witnessing that the leaders of nationalist parties, when they lose their chair and function in the Serbian government, become very radical, to say, even fundamentalists, that their radicalism goes to the point where they lose their chair to declare it a genocide. In such a way, they sow fields of hatred from which some new foreign mercenaries can emerge, and new terrorists can emerge. The responsibility of politicians, especially national parties, is very high, and they need to watch what they say. It's an extremely sensitive area, and I don't think hate can be contained in hate, that evil can't be contained in other evils, and it's a formula. I'm undermining that there are no less valuable and more valuable victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40554	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers Antić and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Antić, welcome to the National Assembly today. Yesterday, I mean, we all know that here, we had a very good debate on the proposal for a law on mining and geological research, and today we are dealing with certain aspects of our foreign policy, as well as security issues. I think, gentlemen, Members of the Parliament and distinguished guests, it is very important that during this debate we all remind ourselves here, but also that citizens and citizens of our Republic hear, what is one country that is signatories, for example. commits these conventions against recruitment, use, financing and training of mercenaries. Article five is clear here, I mean, very. Three dots there exist, and I think it's important here that we emphasize the content of those three points. In point 1, the Member States undertake not to recruit, benefit, fund or train mercenaries and to incriminate such actions in accordance with the provisions of this Convention. I believe that every reasonable man should support this convention, be ratified, and have no dilemma. Point two states, and we commit ourselves to that and we have to commit ourselves, respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, says: the Member States undertake not to recruit, use, fund or train mercenaries to oppose the legitimate exercise of the people's right to self-determination, as provided for by international law, and the undertaking in accordance with international law to prevent the recruitment, use, financing or training of mercenaries for this purpose. I mean, honored gentlemen, of course we should confirm these sentences. The contents of these points, for example. this member of this Convention. Point three, very clear, precise, deserves support, says – Member States are obliged to provide for the appropriate scope of criminal penalties under this Convention, taking into account the difficult nature of these acts. There is no dilemma for us either that this convention should be confirmed by our National Assembly. I mean, dear gentlemen, the distinguished guests of the Foreign Ministry, Mr. Antic, that these words and these sentences of Article 5 be associations to some of the security challenges facing our country as well. I do not believe that there was a MP here who had no association, listening to this debate or reading the contents of these documents, to the threats of terrorism, religious fundamentalism, to the threat of violence. I think, Minister Antic, it's very important that we show here today one consensus, one consensus about that security is basic value and that, on that basis, we should work here in the National Assembly, but all members of the executive branch of the government. In addition, I would add that the security heritage of our Republic is complex and that, in that sense, we should look at these security challenges in a complex way. Therefore, Mr Antic, I have one proposal for this debate, and this is a proposal that I also make to my colleagues, to the MPs, and also to my fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and to all the members of the Government, and please also to pass this proposal on to the Prime Minister. The proposal is that in the Assembly which is our central political institution, we always repeat here, the sanctuary of our political life, that one session is scheduled in our National Assembly, if the government is to be judged to be closed to the public, closed to the public, at which we will discuss all the security challenges facing our country, to inform everyone here about what the situation in this segment is and how much, gentlemen, is possible, to provide finally one basic consensus on our responses to these security challenges. I don't think we should play games. Give it to the Prime Minister. It's not time to act. Time is, I mean, for a modern approach to politics and a relevant good answer to what are threats and security challenges above all. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40556	Thank you. The word is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40557	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the Turnover Movement will support the agreement, i.e. the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Finance and Training of Mercenaries, as we will support two agreements with us friendly countries. At first, I have to make one remark, which is the fact that there is no Prime Minister here today, Vice President. Not only that, but because he's being replaced by a minister from his party who has absolutely nothing to do with this topic. I would understand that Mr Selakovic is here today, even Mr. Gasic, but the energy minister has nothing to do with this topic. I think that division into party, ministerial functions is bad and that's what this country leads to what's called a party state. That's not good, and that's the only objection I can make, Mr. Antic. So, I appreciate your work, the work you're doing, with a lot of criticism, of course, but I'm saying, this is one essential remark. On the other hand, I'll vote for all three of these documents. The turnaround movement believes that security, as my colleague Pavicevic of the New Party said, is the basic value of a society. There's no security in a country without general security. Security is not a question of Serbia's country, security is a question of the security of the world. We see what's going on today, the war is in Syria, and the consequences of the war are felt by us here in Serbia. So, we have asylum seekers, refugees, whatever you want us to call these people who are running from war, we have social problems that I carry with us, we have security problems that I carry with me, problems at borders, conflicts, raising wires, disputes between states, etc. It was in the region of disputes that have not been resolved yet. It's a question that is not a question of one man, one party, one nation, one state. In this regard, I will not say a word today to mention the position or opposition. This, dear colleagues, is the subject of a couple of excellencies, which we must agree on. So the world became insecure. The world is insecure and you today when buying a plane ticket, you have to make sure that the plane line leads across one world capital or another, because you don't know if you might not be able to land at that airport these days. Or, when you want to go on vacation, you don't know whether to buy a tourist arrangement, because you don't know if there's going to be a war there. The least of the problems are the tourist arrangements, the problem is that we are not sure about our children either. In this respect, the confirmation of the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Finance and Training of Mercenaries is welcome. This international law implements it in our legal system. It's important that we apply this convention. counterpart Pavicevic mentioned that the fight against terrorism should not be on the lines. He used a few figures of style that I would agree with, but I don't want to be insinuating to one or the other side of this hall today. I think this is a very serious topic, that this is the topic we might need to discuss on the assembly committees at closed sessions. This job should be dealt with by professional people. I assume the two men sitting next to you are expert on the subject. I guess people like that have a lot in our country and I support them, I support them on behalf of the Turning Movement to do it in a professional way, to protect our country and citizens from these risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40558	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40559	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, I fully understood the discussions and Professor Pavicevic and Professor Veselinović. Of course, it's recorded. It is the idea of possible activities of parliament, either through committees or possibly if some agreement is reached on the assembly session. But, respecting the right of the MP, especially from opposition lines, to try in everything to find some political argument for certain critical tones at the expense of the government, so it finds such an argument because of my presence in today's session and paints it with some party colors, me and the MPs and for the citizens, I just have to point out a few things. First, the proposer of these acts is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia can mandate each of the ministers, vice-president of the government, ministers without portfolios, to defend any legal solution proposed by the government as a proposal to the National Assembly. Under two, Minister Dacic is busy organising the annual OSCE Assembly, which is held in our country, which in itself defines a huge number of government members' obligations. First of all, I think of the interior minister and the defence minister, because of the numerous security challenges we face in the organisation of such a large gathering, with so many important officials from the world's largest states. Finally, my colleague Selakovic today has a number of obligations, as well as most members of the government, so my arrival at today's session is the only and only consequence of the fact that I already have a set of laws in parliament and that I planned these days for parliamentary activities. Therefore, I ask you to understand and to be honest, that we really do not fear political and party and what is necessary and what is not needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40560	Thank you, Minister. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if anyone wants to exercise their right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a joint single search. I would like to thank the Minister and his associates, or Minister Dacic's associates. We move to the following two points of the agenda, and this is a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body for 2015 and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body for 2015 and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. The proposaler's representative is not here. The presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40561	Thank you, Your Honor. My fellow MPs, I must admit that when I saw these two points of the agenda, I was a little confused. So, the session called for on 1 December 2015 is on the agenda of the item – giving consent to the Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and the Energy Agency for 2015. In 2015, it almost passed, here, less than a month, and now we're giving consent to the financial plan. I wanted to see why it happened. Why do we need to have a completely pointless discussion today? We're discussing a financial plan at the end of the year. So we can't say, do, change anything. Then I found a few interesting things, so I'm distracting you. The real deal is the financial plan of the Energy Agency. The legal basis why I had this debate today is Article 61. The Energy Act, item 1 which says – The financial plan is submitted no later than the end of October of the current year for the following year. When we look at when the Energy Agency adopted the financial plan, we will see that it was done on 21 November 2014, it was delivered. So the agency itself broke the law in three weeks. Three weeks later, they sent a financial plan. The only explanation or reason I could find for this violation of the law by the Agency is that they might have waited to adopt a decision on the temporary establishment of the base for determining wages, which was here at the Assembly on the agenda at the end of October last year, so they were probably waiting to see what sort of solutions would be adopted so that they could make their expenditures and file a financial plan for us. And that's good. If that's what they're waiting for, that's the only way I can understand how they broke the law. So the law says - by the end of October. They broke the law, but some understanding has. It's a completely different and more interesting situation with this other financial plan. It's the financial plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Namely, they respected the law and told them that by the end of October they had to deliver, at the latest, a financial plan for next year and they did so. On November 1st, they adopted the plan and delivered it to the Assembly, but, of course, it did not provide for a reduction in wages, or it did not count on the Law on the Provisional Editing of the Baseline for the calculation and payment of salaries. In addition, the government gave an opinion at a session on 8 January this year and said it must comply with this law. Then the Regulatory Authority adopted a new financial plan on March 5th, delivered it to the Assembly and the Finance Committee proposed on March 12th that the assembly adopt the financial plan. So that decision has been in the process here since 12 March. Perhaps there would be an end to the story that, looking at the documentation, I did not find the government's opinion as of 1 June 2015, which was given on this plan which was subsequently, meaning again, adopted, revised on 4 March 2015, which is once again negative. So the government's opinion is that there are some things that need to be changed in this financial plan so that it can be adopted. No one has responded to this view of the Government since 1 June 2015, nor has the Governing Board of the Regulatory Body, nor the Financial Committee. Now I ask MPs of the ruling majority -- will you vote in favour of this financial plan of the Regulatory Body for the Media, contrary to the Government's opinion? So, the government said the plan was wrong, that it had to be aligned in some parts. So, are you going to vote against it? Sure, sure. The assembly has an opinion and the government has an opinion. The assembly can adopt one way or another, but it will be very interesting that the ruling majority vote against the government's opinion and that is one good trend if it continues in the future, because not all that comes from the government is the best. Although, in this case, I think they're right, as I think and speak openly when they're wrong. I think the government in this case is right and it would be bad to adopt this financial plan, because what the government has found in its opinion is in accordance with the law and without it this plan is not good enough. I hope this situation doesn't happen again. I don't know, I couldn't find out if, say, these two bodies had made plans for 2016, financially. I remind you, the legal deadline was the end of October. So they already had to make a financial plan for 2016 and he's already here in parliament. I couldn't find him, but that just means we're gonna break the law again. I ask the question – why do we even bring laws? Why are there deadlines in those laws when those deadlines are not respected? I also asked that question about the budget. Here, today is December 2nd, we have no draft budget in the Assembly yet. He's not even in the government yet. She hasn't adopted him yet. She had to adopt it by November 1st, and we had to adopt it by December 15th, after at least 15 days, as long as it should be in the procedure. None of this is gonna happen. We may adopt it before December 15th, but we certainly won't have 15 days to discuss it here on committees, let's see, not just us, but through us citizens. We are representatives of the citizens here. So, what we're doing here, we're doing on behalf of some citizens. In this way, citizens remain deprived of affecting the budget and the policy to be implemented next year. When you look at this report of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, then some of the things that are happening to us in our daily life about the situation in our media are just becoming less clear. In fact, here they are clear, as a reminder of probably the MPs, the numbered powers of the regulators, it is derived from the law, the 23rd point. It's very interesting to read now what all the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media needs to do. What we all know and what we expect is that it determines closer rules relating to software content, and about protecting the dignity of persons and other personal rights, protecting the rights of minors, banning hate speech and others. So we have months of shows, realitys, as it is called, on national broadcasters all day long, who directly endanger the rights of minors and promote hate speech and threaten the dignity of personality and other personal rights. Not just that. We also have quasi-informative emissions called "state impact", or I don't know how, "hit on Serbia", all day long on broadcasts, where different laws are broken -- and this law, and the Law on the Protection of Personality, and patients' dignity, and I don't know which laws. No one's responding to that. Or, no one, in this case should react to the regulator, the board members, who here, if you look at the report, have monthly fees of about 90,000 dinars. They should react. They are now hiding behind some forms, norms, talking about some public debates, that they will adopt something when some deadlines pass. During that time, we have daily poisoning and harassment of citizens of Serbia through national media, which must use their work, broadcasting, in the public interest because the law says so. So, not in the interest of one party, of an individual, of a personal, private interest to someone, but in the public interest. I was further looking at the competences of the Regulatory Body – it encourages the preservation and protection of Serbian culture and language, as well as the culture of the language of national minorities; it promotes the availability of media services for disabled persons; it promotes the development of creativity in the field of radio and other audio-visual media services in the Republic of Serbia; it promotes the development of professionalism and high-level education of employees in electronic media in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the improvement of editorial independence and autonomy of media service providers. It all sounds very nice. But read this financial plan. To achieve all these roles, the Regulatory Body has to do something. This work requires an injection of funds. You're not going anywhere to see how the regulatory body planned to do some of these things in accordance with the law in 2015. It's nowhere to be found. And then we wonder why the European Commission report on the state of the media is negative. It's said there, they're good laws but they don't apply. Well, here's an example, I've been talking about it for 12 minutes. So where do these items of law apply to the jurisdiction of the regulatory body? How are they applied? With what money? Not at all. There's nothing to do with it, and that's why the picture in the media is what it is. What the regulatory body boasts in this report, i.e. in this financial plan, is that in 2015 it will be paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia as a surplus of 64 million dinars, and says, this is an increase of 344%, as 18.2 million dinars were paid in 2014. But it's interesting when you watch what it used to be like. Payment to Serbia's budget in 2007 -- 298 million dinars. Payment 2008 – 236 million, 2009 payment – 139 million, 2010 – 82 million, 2011. – 52 million, 2013. – 27 million and 2014 – 18.2 million. So, every year, less, less and less is paid into the budget. The regulatory body is growing, the number of employees is growing, the role they have under the law don't realize, they spend money, those money they might end up in the budget. If they are not already doing what they are supposed to do under this law, perhaps from the budget, through a programme, if the culture minister can write it, there could be something done to improve the media image in Serbia. It's not all happening, it's all going through. I believe you thought we weren't going to have a practical discussion today. What a debate to have on the 2015 financial plan on 2 December 2015. How much does that make any sense? But I just couldn't help but say these few things about this item on the agenda, to express my dissatisfaction with breaking the law, which we don't respect the deadlines of the law, which we're running, we're trying in some way to fulfill the form, and we're completely missing the essence and we're not talking about the essence. Cose is if parliament here turns into such a body that will not discuss the problems in this society, if the public debate is not being held anywhere or taken outside of this body. Parliament is the place by the Constitution, tradition, in democratic practice where the most important debate on the most important topics is being held. We do not, unfortunately, have the opportunity here, and here are these two proposals for these decisions that we are to adopt today, showing how parliament is experiencing and another confirmation of the disenfranchisement of parliamentaryism in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40562	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40563	The President-in-Office, respected fellow Members, so let's start with the answers and some of the concerns that exist, as regards the financial plan of the Energy Agency, because we have a report from the Energy Agency that practically this institution, as a regulatory body that is very important, especially in terms of European integration, the third package of the EU Directive, the implementation of the new Energy Act, which we adopted on 29 December last year, which lays down simply, its reports and submits to the Committee on Business and Energy of the Serbian Parliament, but the financial plan is in the domain of what the Finance and Budgetal Consumption Committee does. Before that, it has an obligation, based on the Rules of Procedure on Labour and the Law on which it was formed, that the Government should give its opinion. What made the Agency late in that formal sense is, if you remember, that we passed laws relating to the reduction of the salaries of all civil servants. What's even more interesting is that the salaries were even tied to institutions relating to the judicial system. So they asked for a legal interpretation, whether or not their salaries fall under the influence of this law. Only based on such interpretations did they have to make a plan. When they made the plan, then they adopted it, the date is November 21st, and you will remember that since November 1st, it has been the application of that law concerning the reduction of wages and the introduction of public finances in general. This led to the fact that it was only then sent to the government for consideration. At that time, the government submitted its opinion to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 9 April 2015. The government is giving an opinion on the basis of all opinions of the ministries responsible for co-operation with the Energy Agency. So it's not just finance, it's also the Ministry of Energy, and because of that, only then in May of the month, the practical board in charge of finance adopts such a plan, i.e. it gives the opinion that the Serbian Parliament is pleading to it. What is interesting, and should be said and Serbia's citizens should know, the Energy Agency has received great powers in implementing the energy law, especially by adopting the third package of the EU directive, and the EU says neither the government, nor the Assembly, nor the state institutions are allowed to have such an impact on policy-making at all. As a result of this, we get that the Energy Agency directly participates in the electricity price regulation process, participates in the licensing of even business entities that are to be engaged in both sales and distribution and electricity and gas. So, you can no longer just say "Srbigas" to be the institution that will sell gas and distribute. It can't just be an EPS, it's a single market opening and creating a competitive advantage on the market, that a large number of companies will be involved in this business. The agency has indeed come to this job that 16 licenses under very high criteria could have issued those licenses for doing this job, but ultimately these are our European obligations that are not a bit easy, especially for business operators who want to do this job. Finally, it takes certain capacities in terms of personnel working in the agency, given that we have a small number of employees in these agencies because they are relatively young in their existence. That's why it takes more education and working with these people to really bring out all this work. This capacity-building simply is not possible, and that knowledge that needs, after all, people who deal with this work within the agency cannot acquire in colleges, but simply must work with their European colleagues to acquire it. Finally, the Energy Agency has obligations and has been in co-operation and has become a member of the European Association of the Energy Agency. It will have the obligation to follow their directives directly now, in 2016. That's why it's safe, that when a plan is made, at all financially, it's not that simple. In doing so, you see that many things in the market are in general changing, that many legislative proposals are being changed, that the Ministry of Energy has sent an action plan for Chapter 15 concerning energy to the European Commission. So the Agency gives in general through its report to the board, presents us with this financial plan, in terms of an integral part of the overall business report for the previous year. The financial plans, so for this year, are based on the previous ones. So what we're saying is that the overrun has been conditioned for less than a month by other legal solutions. So I don't think this financial plan regarding the agency is at all controversial. What to say is that it's a volume of 198 million 793 thousand 180 dinars. It relates to revenues collected by the agency based on licences, fees and donations. There are many international projects that the agency is doing precisely to raise capacity, but also to raise the level of awareness of business entities it is working with to make them better acquainted with what they need to do in order to obtain certain statuses and be licensed. But the expenditures this agency needs to spend on are primarily salaries and earnings of about 25%, a 19% lease, so-called costs. Intangible costs of 21% and the rest are practically projected for the risks of payment of claims covering that mandatory reserve of about 3.5 million dinars. I think this financial plan really needs to be supported because it will help the agency to for 2016, they simply did in that draft of theirs, but without the adoption of this year they cannot simply appear with the 2016 plan. What's more important is that we say about this financial plan of regulatory bodies. As you can see for the electronic media, as you can see, this institution simply acted according to the law, and that's why it came right back to re-proposing, and that's why it came back to wait again, and the deadlines are re-longing. But what's important is to say that she revised her items, especially when it comes to income and expenditure, and it should be said that there is this surplus that we're talking about between income and expenditure, but it should be said that there are payments from previous periods. That's why there's simply no such plan, but I'm sure and I have a real explanation of the Finance Committee that they took all these factors into account when they sent this plan and really gave the Assembly up for adoption, because without this plan they won't be able to function even next year. So I think you may be right that they are not visible enough in public by their work, but I think about the finance that certainly the Finance Committee where our colleagues are sitting, ultimately and representatives of your party and parties, can simply give their opinions when they come as part of the agenda. So in any case, these two financial plans need to be adopted because we simply cannot block the work of these institutions, of which indeed many factors in society depend and many business activities depend on society. I am so that the SNS should show in any case and show by its vote that it accepts such plans, and I hope that the other parties that are in the opposition will accept these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40564	Thank you. We've got a list of people who've been reported. Among those present is Marijan Rističević. You want to talk? No, it is not, Aleksandra Jerkov is not there, Vladimir Pavicevic is not there, Janko Veselinovic is not there. So, Marian Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40565	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I agree with the criticism of the electronic media regulator. I can agree that their receipts are large, what the opposition claimed. I can agree and they're bad, but I don't understand why they picked them so badly. As far as I can remember, and there are colleagues, I think every colleague knows that better than I do. I don't remember us picking anyone out of that regulatory body. I think we found it chosen by the party of the former regime. If we had replaced them, we would have done political rematchism. Now that we haven't done it, they're worse, and we need to be bad now because they chose bad personnel for that regulatory body. As far as I can tell, they won't forgive us for all our mistakes, not even our own. As far as the Energy Agency is concerned, it is said -- you're not going to vote because the government didn't vote, so you're not going to vote against the government's opinion. Here, I, as far as I know, voted for sure one 30 amendments to the opposition. I voted 20 times against some parts of the law or something proposed by the government, and as soon as you vote against, automatically as the system splits, breakdowns in the parliamentary group, etc., and if you vote for, then they say -- they're like-minded, they're all winded up, etc. So I don't know their objections when they attach that kind of remark to what they mean. Do they ever think that we are members of a democratic society and that the political truth is determined in this House by counting votes, whether or not it was proposed by the Government, the MPs, a group of MPs, whether it was a law, whether it was an agreement, whether it was a decision, whether it was part of the law, whether it was part of the law, the corrections of the law, or a proposal for a correction of the so-called. Amendments. Does it mean if we vote the way the government votes, then we're like-minded, but if we accidentally voted or voted against it, then it's a system breakdown, the government has lost support, etc. None of them are going to realize that this society is moving, I am not saying that it is truly democratic, because it is a young democracy, because we have started since the 1990s, because democracy is created, for it is one process, it is a process of maturation, etc., and I think that democracy should still be considered by counting votes and that, regardless of which side, this political truth is determined, until the moment until another majority opinion is formed and it forms some political truth. And from that I found it appropriate to address these two proposals, with the Energy Agency very important to us. In the next period, if we adopt the Agricultural Land Act, it will be very important to us because of the abandoned land and the licensing of energy licenses for the production of biomass energy and through livestock and all over one megawatt, and this colleague Tomic knows, will be subject to the authorisation of the Energy Agency and is very important to us. As far as I can see in that financial plan, there are no big funds, that's 170 million. During the former regime's party, it was stolen by the president of the local community by noon. So there's nothing to argue about. I think it's all clear here, and this agency deserves support, given that there's an extremely responsible job waiting for us to pass this law and bring the abandoned land to the cause, each hectares the energy value of nine thousand gallons of diesel. So anyone who's on that abandoned land, and it's supposed to have 581 thousand acres, I think most of it, I hope, usurped, is that it hasn't been processed at least 400 thousand. These are huge energy potentials to produce from renewable biomass energy through livestock a series of energy farms, which is why the Energy Agency is very important to us, and that's why I'm going to support both of these things, because the word wouldn't have taken it if there wasn't an unfounded criticism relating to this regulatory body that they chose, and they want to say it's bad and that they attribute it to us even though they chose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40566	Thank you. Since there are no more entries on the lists for the word, may the representatives of the parliamentary groups by article 96 want a word? (Yes) Marko Djurisic, please. You have four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40567	Thank you, President. Of course, I want to look back on this little thing that's been said about this debate. Yes, it is important who he chose in a particular body, but I think it's more important that we talk about how someone works. Just because someone was elected at some point means they got a chance and we're talking about what the results of someone's work are, that's what I was talking about. I don't think they're good. I've listed the exact parts of the law that define the jurisdiction of the electronic media regulator and I asked you a question -- how does this regulatory body accomplish that jurisdiction? What's he doing on that plan? What's he doing to promote professionalism and responsibilities in the media? What's he doing training journalists and editors? What's he doing to protect a minor? What's he doing to protect a personality injury? What's he doing in law enforcement? Does the debate end on who's chosen? Well, here in a few weeks I guess parliament will choose new members and it's not true that you didn't choose anyone. A member of REM has been changed, I think, in the middle of this year. It doesn't end our responsibility for the work of a body on the day that I choose someone in that body, but we should follow what the body does and talk about it here and if we need to replace someone, change what they do wrong, I'm always up to it, whether we choose someone or not. I believe that's what you're thinking, that by the fact that we've chosen someone somewhere, you haven't forgotten and removed responsibility from yourself. I was saying that if we adopt this report in this way, by breaking the laws, we ourselves are undermining the legal order of this country. European integrations that are so much talked about are not just the adoption of certain rules and norms, but the implementation of them into life. I quoted you correctly, the European Commission's press report. Yes, he says, new media laws have been passed, but they are not being implemented. They're not being implemented. Here's one confirmation of that. Second confirmation is where is the media register? On August fourteenth, the deadline expired, one year it was time to create a media register, and today it is not. The minister won't answer that question by MP. So, in order for us to move forward in these European integrations, we must enforce the laws, and we are as the supreme legislative body responsible for how the laws in this country are applied. We're controlling law enforcement, even if we should. If this is how the laws are implemented, then we won't move forward. So it won't be possible for the Agency, the colleague says well, she can't adopt a report for 2016, because no report for 2015. But what are we going to do to improve that, so that things like this don't happen again? If we keep quiet today and say - this is all right, we can adopt a 2015 report in December 2015. Plans, sorry, we're adopting plans. The report is a question of when we're going to adopt, probably when it's three or four years. This way we will not make progress in Eurointegration even though it is our goal, and we should be, we often repeat that everyone in parliament today is Serbia for Serbia's European future, then we have to work more responsibly. That's the essence of my discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40568	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40569	It is indeed the Serbian Progressive Party and Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, if anyone is lenient to the regulatory bodies. We didn't change people at all even when they were proposed to re-election, they were re-elected. It was precisely because we were not transferred to do political rematch because we felt that these two bodies had to deal with the profession and that they were therefore elected to those places and that their independence was very much seen for their work rather than for politics, not for them to become some fourth branch and help of the opposition to attack the Government of Alexander Vukic. So that's why when we talk about the work reports, their reports are adopted by the committees in charge. On boards there are representatives of all parties from this parliament who can say something about it. When we talk about the financial plan of these institutions, they are simply an integral part of these reports and then they go to the government, and the government gives its opinion and they return to parliament and come to the Committee on Finance and to the budget and public spending, and then they come to the feast. So, there are a lot of places where MPs can say what you're saying today and there are plenty of places to criticise these financial reports and their work, but today's topic is to give consent to the financial plan of these institutions. First of all, I see that you have the most objections to REM, meaning the regulatory body that refers to the electronic media. The government of Mr. Vukica does not want to put any pressure on any independent regulatory body or on any institution, especially in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of Serbia, because the Serbian Parliament is simply doing its job. That is why we think that the people representing these institutions have never been controversial and have never been changed. As you can see, the regulatory body hasn't changed its composition. You say that one member has been changed, and that member has probably been changed because his term of office has expired, as have many commissions and agencies changed their members to which the term of office has expired, or they have retired. Therefore, I think that simply criticism on that side does not stand on today's agenda, because today's point should allow for the smooth work of these institutions. Through the financial plan and adoption we will allow these regulatory bodies to do their job and it is certain that all those instances you spoke of have passed. I'm sure those reports weren't delivered overnight, but they've got some of their own historical trail and it's been months. Therefore, it is one of the basics for us to adopt such proposals. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-02-0.u40570	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search on the proposals for decisions. I thank the MPs for their participation in today's session and continues at 10.00 p.m. on Friday to discuss the details.
