ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28970	Dear President, dear colleagues, I would like to ask a question about the construction of the Fuscogorian Corridor. In fact, a few days ago, the minister of traffic, infrastructure and construction, Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic announced that 1,100km of roads in Serbia would be restored over the next four years and 400m euros would be invested. The 2015 plan, according to the media, is to rebuild 260km. The carrier of this job will be "Serbia's Ways". A few days ago, the minister visited the municipality of Irig, and then said the construction of the Fruskogorje corridor was restored to one of the priorities, as the media quoted already, although it was not easy. It is interesting that the Vojvodina government is giving money to "The Ways of Serbia" which will lead to an idea project, and how it will continue to be financed, it is not yet known. I'm only talking about what's said in the media. Prime Minister Vukic said this job does not require a lex specialis, as it is small business values in relation to the construction of "Beograda na Voda" and that we can finance it ourselves. The people of Iriga know how important it is to them this time. At the time of Prime Minister Velimir Ilic, I would like to remind myself that the citizens of Iriga had staged a blockade this time because there is a heavy traffic going through the centre itself, they're collapsing home, they're rarely going to have trucks coming into houses and jeopardising life-places, and then Minister Ilic promised to build a bypass around Iriga, and then they were dragged in and the machines were how the works would begin. But when the cameras went out, construction stopped and the story of construction. So, if this section of the road was difficult to return to priorities, as said by Minister Mihajlovic, are some other shares in Vojvodina foreseen by this plan of reconstruction and if so, how will it be financed? The second question, will the Vojvodina provide funds for them too, and business will be run by "Serbian Roads"? Whether it is planned to form a company called the Voivodine Road, which would take care of the roads in Vojvodina, because due to the poor state of the highways through Vojvodina, the examples work, from Novi Sad to Pančev travels for more than two hours, and to Vrsac even longer and only as a comparison, and we often like to compare with Slovenia, today such distances in Slovenia and do not feel. The second question concerns a wild dump in Novi Banovci. I asked the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure on 29 July 2014, when it would prevent the formation of a wild dump in Novi Banovac by the highway itself. At that time, I received a reply from "The Way of Serbia" who sent it through the ministry, to me in response, MPs, that the dump is within the jurisdiction of the local community of Novi Banovci, and if it extends to the highway, it will be removed. After me, the same question was asked by Parliament Gordana Komic, but the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, but also received a response to the dump at Nova Paza, which is 19 km away from the New Banovci dump, which means they completely missed the topic. It has been almost a year and no one has done anything, nor has the local community of Novi Banovci, nor has it been "Serbian Ways". The dump, meanwhile, is growing, we watch it every day when we travel, occasionally burns and literally reaches the edge of the road. I ask again the question of the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, and this time also the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment, when they will take steps to stop the spread of this dump and clear this area, because it threatens traffic, creates an ugly picture in Serbia that wants to go to Europe and this kind of thing cannot be seen anywhere in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28971	The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28972	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like, through a brief report on the visit to the municipality of Negotin and to the east of Serbia, along with MP Aida Corovic, to announce the problems of the citizens of the municipality of Negotin and to draw attention to some of the problems we have seen as MPs in the middle. In a conversation with the president of the municipality of Negotin, Mr. Jovan Milovanovic, we received information that about 40,000 citizens live in the municipality of Negotin, and that out of that, 12,000 citizens live and work abroad, the average age of citizens of the non-China municipality of care is about 60-61. These are the data that should concern us all as a serious state and make more account for this environment, that is, the east of Serbia. I want to tell you that we have been talking to the president of the municipality, and we have also had a conversation with the management of the health center and home of health, that we have made a conversation with the citizens of Negotin municipality and from these talks, I am asking a common question to the Republic of Serbia, can it fix, improve, infrastructure in eastern Serbia? Or the roads from Književec, Zaječar, towards Negotina and Kladov are in a very bad state and citizens of this environment are asking the Republic government to at least change that layer of asphalt, because many car accidents happen, many people die on this route and that is one request. It wasn't just for this government, it was questions for some of the former governments, but that share of eastern Serbia requires really one concern and attention to fix it. The second question the citizens of the Negatin municipality ask the government is whether a border crossing with Romania can be arranged through Gerdap 2, given that it is almost open and that it is good that it is open, that it connects the two neighbouring friendly countries and facilitates communication between the citizens of Romania and Serbia, but the people of Negotina say that the grass there has grown slightly more, that access to the road on the Gjerdap 2 itself at the border crossing, in a poor state, and that with a small investment it can be improved. That's another question. As a third question, and it goes the same way to the Republic government, we are witnessing large floods that hit our country last year, and in this year it wasn't exactly like that, but this municipality and these citizens have problems with several streams of rivers and it is necessary, that is, to resuscitate the work on the lush water flow of the Sikol River through the village of Mokranje in the municipality of Negotin. The Sikol river is the left tributary of the river Timok and on several occasions the rural households, the agricultural area in this area, and it is necessary to resuscitate the river. There is also a need for the restoration of works on the lush stream of the Stone River through the village of Mala Kamenica from the municipality of Negotin. The stone river and the lush flow of the right tributary of the Danube, which is poured into the settlement of Novi Mihajlovac and on several occasions the rural households and agricultural areas and traffic used to swim. It is necessary to clean up the riverbed from application, growth and glare, in order to achieve a flow profile of the river and improve permeable power. Also, the need for one joint investment and a view of the problem is also in the renaissance work on the river Bulevica, through the village of Urovica and the river Vratna through the village of Vratna in the municipality of Negotin. These are some problems. The last problem is the restoration of work on the regulation of the cleansing of the Paradise stream through the village of Rajac, the Municipality of Negotin. We all know about the Paradise brewery, about the Rajac, but there are some small environments that have problems. The Municipality of Negotin, I also received information from the president of the municipality himself that he is making a lot of efforts and work to repair these consequences of last year's floods, but I think it is necessary that both the republican government and local self-government help as much as they can repair the crusts of these rivers. I would like to conclude by asking these three parliamentary questions through a shorter report that we, Aida Corovic, the People's Parliament and I, have done, with the desire to visit municipalities and cities that do not have MPs, to hear their voice and the needs of citizens of this community in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28973	The word is Dragoljub Zindovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Energy and Mining. What company has an investigative right to the site of mineral raw materials Čadinja in the middle polimlje area? Since when does he have that right and until the licenses have been issued, and does the company fulfil all obligations on this basis? I'm also interested in the fact that all companies have been given investigative rights so far. A number of studies of this site, polymetals, copper, zinc, lead, estimated ore reserves of about 40 million tonnes and all types of ore, gave it a satisfactory rate of exploitation and quality of concentrate. In 1988, this elaborate on mine reserves was also made. A mining study on the possibility of opening the Cadinja bed was also done in 1988. According to a number of experts dealing with the Cadinja site, the conditions for opening beds were acquired 50 years ago. Taking into account the significant reserves of ore, the good concentration of polymetals as well as the favourable location of the site of Čadinja, the opening of the mine would be a great developmental opportunity for the municipality of Prepolje. It is also important to take into account the capacity for processing copper concentrates in Bor where imports of copper concentrates must be made. The import concentrate is certainly more expensive and here we see the reason and chance of exploiting the bed of Čadinja. The location is close to the highway and freight train station. Otherwise, this site was exploited in the days of the ancient Romans as well as during medieval Serbia from the 13th to the 15th centuries. We feel that this question deserves serious attention and proper approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28975	Is anyone else answering to ask a question? Yeah. ) The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28976	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, my question concerns the consequences of the city, the weather that has hit a significant part of Serbia these days and the fact that the Serbian government has done nothing to protect Serbian citizens from the consequences of the city. I ask the Serbian government, why did she withdraw the city's protection law from the procedure? I ask the Prime Minister, why did he not do anything before withdrawing this law from the procedure because it was becoming a sufficient normative basis to protect agricultural ambushes, orchards, fields with plantations from the city, that citizens whose only source of income is the city would not come into the situation that today are helpless and only because the state of Serbia, or the government in which the backbone is made by SNS and local self-governments in which most SNS did nothing, is the same as it was when the floods were applied, when civil protection law was not applied, and when practically again citizens themselves organised to protect their houses. Of course, these consequences have not yet been resolved. When it comes to protection from the city, all the organized countries, but I'd say from the original community to today, they've organized to protect themselves from the city. In Serbia and pre-serious countries, the establishment of the state, there were so-called Human beings who were called "winds", and since there was no state, as there is now no protection from the city, and "winds", they were also called "winding, winds or skyscrapers", these are people with special ability to protect their property, village or the end of weather disasters, such as storm, city and heavy rain. On the other hand, there were villages of parts of Serbia, Pocerina, which has been significant in the production of agricultural products throughout the centuries. There were people, so-called. ‘Builders’. So even when there was no state, there were some institutes of self-organization against the city. Today, we do not have that and those “builders ” in Pocerina served their villages. They say they served in the fight against the city through magic rituals. What were they doing? One of these builders, when the city was prepared, when the city clouds were prepared, took the sickle and the hair, returned the break-up on which the threads of base were wrapped, which one of the twin sisters, a bag of bras and a rose bottle he collected last year. He ran further, and when he was found directly beneath the city cloud, he was scattered with a lump of dew begging the hanger, the drowner, to keep the city from falling. Well...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28977	Thank you. It's been a while, we heard a question. We'll pass on that question. Is anyone else answering to ask a question? (No) We continue to work and move on to a unique review of the proposal for a decision on selecting trustees to protect equality. According to Article 89(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Mrs Branko Jankovic, a candidate for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, and she will soon join us. You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law of the National Assembly. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. According to Businessman Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28978	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I believe that the injured member of 96th Honored Mrs Gojkovic, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which defines and reports MPs for a word and determines the order of MPs by application for a word. Madam President, we now have two kinds of forms that regulate application for word. A kind of form, Mrs Gojkovic, applies only to MP Zoran Zivkovic and myself, and according to instructions from the vice-president of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic. Here, gentlemen, there are MPs who are members of the parliamentary groups and there are independent MPs. Three of them are fellow Members of the people. One of the three independent MPs, Mr Petric, is registered for the word through forms used by MPs who are members and members of the parliamentary groups, and only MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have, Mrs Gojkovic, a special form. I ask you now to explain to us whether this is then some kind of positive discrimination, Mrs Gojkovic, because we are MPs Zoran Zivkovic and I are the most valuable, most dedicated MPs in this assembly of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, or is it something else? I think we should all have equal rights here and use the unique application form for a word, not that some MPs are marked in various ways in our National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic. Please solve this dilemma for me now so we can continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28979	Here's a solution, we'll sign two more lists because this list is for MPs' groups, so they sign the heads of the parliamentary groups. There's three of you, there's no one to sign, and then you show your will on this one where you sign yourself. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Petric? We'll warn him. I'll tell the services to warn him not to sign off on other people's lists, but then it's interesting who owns it and who signs the list down there, whose MP group is now coming as a registered speaker. It's more interesting who signs down to accept his discussion, so we'll see who belongs to an MP who's being led as an independent MP. Thank you. I hope we don't vote, more like an explanation. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: No. Thank you. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Now you can file your application. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposal's representative, MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives want the word? Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28980	Thank you, Madam President. At its session held on 28 April 2015, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives set out a proposal for a decision on the choice of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality under Article 28(1). The law prohibiting discrimination, as well as Article 48(1), indent 1, paragraph 8 and Article 203. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has proposed to Mrs Branko Jankovic, a Belgrade graduate lawyer, on the basis of the proposals collected by most parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Let me briefly take out Mrs. Jankovic's biography. Mrs. Branko Jankovic was born on 18 January 1973. She's married and her mother is two children. She graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. She finished her master's degree at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad and is currently a doctor at the Faculty of Security in Belgrade. He knows computer work, he knows English and Russian and he knows, which is very important for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, sign language. Mrs Brankica Jankovic has a rich working experience in the field of human rights and freedoms, in the area of the ban on discrimination and protection of citizens of the Republic of Serbia from different forms of discrimination. She was the assistant director of the Gerontology Centre of Belgrade. Then she was secretary of state at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. She was the director of the Gerontology Centre of Belgrade. She was the secretary of Ruđer Boskovic High School with the home of students and primary school Ruđer Boskovic in Belgrade. Among other things, she taught a teaching course that is also important for her biography and for the work that Mrs Jankovic will do. She taught the subject "The Constitution and the Rights of Citizens". She co-ordinator for the Republic of Serbia from 2004 to 2006 City University of Sheffield. She was the director of marketing on TV Politics, director of marketing on television Yugoslavia-JU Info Channel, producer of marketing on TV Politics. What is more significant is its activities in the area for which it is proposed, was an IPA official for all IPA assistance programmes in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. She was head of the negotiating group for Chapter 19 – Social Policy and Employment in EU accession negotiations. The President shall be a subcommittee on research, innovation, information society and social policy within the Committee on the Implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. He is the national population ageing coordinator in the population ageing task force. Then, the co-ordinator is the project Improving social and health services at local level. It's a World Bank project. The President of the Management Board is the project funded by the IPA Fund in 2008 – Social Inclusion. President of the Management Board of the IPA Fund-funded Project 2011 – Improving the position of users of residential institutions with intellectual and mental difficulties through creating conditions for their inclusion in society and local community. Head of the government of an inter-resor working group for the development of a programme of employment and social policy reforms. He is a member of the Government's Political Council for the Application of Resolution 1325 – "Wifes, Peace and Security". He is the National Project Director on the project "Fighting Sexual and Gender-based Violence under the UNDP". He is the National Project Director of the Project “Integrated Response to Violence Against Women”. Also, one programme under the UNDP. Director of the project "Instituting and applying the licensing system to the social protection service provider in Serbia". President of the government's Council on Age and Age Affairs. President of the Government Council for Persons with Disabilities. The President of the Government's Council for the Rights of the Child. She was head of a state delegation at the Ministerial Conference on Ageing in Vienna from 18 September to 20 September 2012. She was head of a state delegation at the Ministerial Conference on the completion of the process of deinstitutionalisation of children and support for the biological family in Sofia on 21 and 22 November 2012. She was head of a state delegation at the Second Council of Europe Conference of Ministers in charge of social cohesion and building a safe future for all in Istanbul from 11 October to 12 October 2012. She was head of the state delegation at the presentation of the Second and Third Periodic Report on the Application of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women in Geneva on 18 July 2013, at the 55th regular meeting of the Committee on the Elimination of Women's Discrimination. She was head of a state delegation at the Conference on Ageing and Pension System Reform Challenges in the EU countries in Vienna from 3 April to 5 April 2014. There are several published professional works in the field of labour and social law, security and social protection and ageing of the population. The lecturer is also the president of the Commission for the preparation and submission of exams for the performance of the work of project coordinators and coordinators for the implementation of work at the Directorate for Safety and Health at Work. She has achieved a large number of participations in a large number of conferences, congresses and seminars in the field of marketing, education and standards of students, security and social protection, in particular the protection and position of the old. She has participated in the creation of sublegal acts for the application of the Social Protection Act and numerous sublegal acts in other areas. He is a member of the government's Action Team for the Construction and Implementation of the Strategy and Action Plan against Violence and Disabilities of the Watcher. He is a member of the joint body for the support and coordination of supervision of the work of inter-resor committees to assess the need to provide additional educational, health or social protection to the child and student. He is a member of the Working Party for the implementation of the Career Management and Advisory Strategy. A participant in the development of a number of strategic and legal documents such as the Social Protection Development Strategy, the National Ageing Strategy, the Strategy for improving the situation of persons with disabilities, the Strategy for the Development of Sports, the Law on Salaries in Public Services, the Law on Social Protection, the Law on Labour, the Law on Social Entrepreneurship, the Law on the Use of Sign Language, the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the Law on the Restriction of Certain Rights of Citizens and a number of other legal projects. He is the winner of the Republic Prize for contributing to the development of the social protection system, which is awarded by the Association of Social Protection Professionals of the Republic of Serbia and is the winner of the "Golden Point" to contribute to the protection of the human rights of the Roma national minority, which is assigned by the National Council of Roma. I could read a whole series of pretty impressive details from Mrs. Brankica Jankovic's biography, but I'll leave it for later, if necessary. What I would like to stress is that, as I said at the outset, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives on the basis of the proposal, which almost all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have given a similar letter to the President of the National Assembly since 7 April 2015, set out a proposal for a decision to elect the Commissioner for Protection and Equality. He proposed to Mrs Branko Jankovic and I, as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, invite all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to support Mrs Branko Jankovic's election as Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, because I really think that she deserves it, that her legal education, that her great work and professional experience say that it is the person who will deal with this business in the best possible way in the interests of all Serbian citizens, and especially those so-called. vulnerable social groups. If there's any necessary information, I'm at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28981	The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28982	Thank you. President-in-Office, Madam Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to make our observations regarding the election of a new Commissioner for the Protection of Equality on behalf of the SVM Group. In my presentation, I will most base myself on the background of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which introduced the institution of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Serbia, certain groups of the population are largely vulnerable, discriminated against, and it is good that the Law prohibiting discrimination in a comprehensive way has set the frameworks for the ban on discrimination in the Republic of Serbia. Personal characteristics on the basis of which discrimination may arise are sufficiently broadly set, as the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia mentions, so-called. the 2009 anti-discrimination law. These properties have more than 20, which are: race, skin color, ancestors, citizenship, nationality or ethnic background, language, religious or political beliefs, gender, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, property, birth, genetic personality, health status, disability, marital and family status, condemnation, age, appearance, membership in political, trade union and other organizations. I wanted to remind all of us of all these qualities because I feel that too much attention is being paid to a small part of this law, or only to certain categories. This law is a legal mechanism of protection and it is much more than discrimination only to a person of certain sexual orientation, birth identity, half or just one particular national minority. There is still wide-ranging discrimination between the categories mentioned, but we think and suggest to you, the distinguished candidate, or future Commissioner, that you expand your focus of action in the future. The law prohibiting discrimination prohibits any violation, discrimination, as well as violation of the principle of equal rights, any speech of hate, harassment and humiliating behavior. Unfortunately, in practice, many other forms of discrimination are emerging. They often refer to an age, mostly to elderly people, to sick people, who are sometimes viewed as refusing to provide adequate treatment for certain sick or elderly people. I believe that in the future you will be dealing with this topic, given your experience in your work biography from the past. I will point out several times that the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination or, as many call it, anti-discrimination law covers several groups, regulates the ban on discrimination of many categories. Of course, what we welcomed in 2009 and what I must stress, under this law is forbidden discrimination between national minorities and their members based on nationality, ethnic origin, religious beliefs and languages. It is very good that thanks to this law, five years ago, the first time was elected and the previous Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. The SVM parliamentary group believes that this institution is of paramount importance and that the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination could not have lived in practice without the establishment of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. It is good that the handling of the Trustee is detailed in this law, as well as the competences of the institution itself, or the Trustee, and in this case for the second time, Commissioner. It is also a very good solution that, in the name and with the consent of the person whose right has been injured, the complaint can be filed by organisations dealing with the protection of human rights and other persons. The victims of discrimination, unfortunately, in the past, and even now, sometimes, must not themselves report discrimination for certain reasons, first of all, because of the concern that this is why they will again be discriminated against and it is very good that these organizations can file complaints instead. We believe that the previous Trustee for the Protection of Equality, Honorable Mrs Petrusic, has contributed with her work to the strengthening of the institution of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality that, thanks to her, and even to her entire team, their work, this institution has entered the public life of the Republic of Serbia, and in the sense that citizens themselves recognize the existence of this institution, its importance and address it. They know that this institution is one of the independent state bodies that protects human and minority rights, namely protecting against discrimination against different categories of citizens, as I mentioned. The SVM parliamentary group believes that, of course, it is an extremely important institution of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, but we believe that in relation to other independent regulatory bodies, such as the Citizens' Protector, the Trustee and others, these are very important functions, that these institutions should function and be stable in the future. I would like to stress that we will support Mrs. Branko Jankovic's election in the voting day for this very important function. As is known, it was mentioned here in the opening statement that most parliamentary groups supported the proposal and the head of our parliamentary group signed the proposal to make Mrs Jankovic a Trustee. So it is clear that on our side, on the side of SVM, there is trust in you, Mrs. Jankovic. However, we would like to appeal to you to expand your field of action in the future, to focus on factual rather than just legal discrimination. As far as national minorities are concerned, the legal framework is good, but we need to pay attention to the field, if I may put it that way, to practical discrimination, what happens in real life. Please do not lose sight of discrimination and problems in the practice of members of all national minorities, not just the one we are most concerned with. For example, there has been a real problem in the past few decades, with regard to the employment of members of national minorities in the public sector and not the fulfilment of legal and constitutional rights. Now I would quote two members of the Constitution. One is a 53rd member who speaks of the right to participate in public affairs management: “Citizens have the right to participate in public affairs management and to enter public services and public functions on equal terms. ” The second, in the section relating to members of national minorities, is equality in the conduct of public affairs, Article 77. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, "Members of national minorities have the same conditions as other citizens, the right to participate in the management of public affairs and to enter public functions." What is extremely significant and we have repeatedly talked about: “In the employment of public authorities, public services, autonomous authorities, local self-government units, the national composition of the population and the proper representation of members of national minorities are taken into account. ” Unfortunately, when we talk about the situation, there's still a lot of work to do on this. I have to briefly point out a few more things about the specific law on the prohibition of discrimination. One is the provision of a law under which this respected home of the National Assembly, within three months of the end of the term of office of the Commissioner, elects a new Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. We believe that, the SVM parliamentary group believes that there should be no such thing as a period of functioning of institutions, especially those institutions that care about protecting the promotion of human and minority rights, or the protection of equality. As we know, the previous Commissioner, the esteemed Mrs Petrusic, expired on May 5th. So we've had almost three weeks, or 20 days so-called. Interregnum, as regards the functioning of the trustee institution for the protection of equality. Of course we are within the legal deadline, since the legal deadline is three months, we may have been able to hurry up a bit, but we certainly welcome what this issue is now on the agenda, which we will probably vote on tomorrow. We'll have a new trustee before the regular session is over. I think that we should work in the future and that this significant function is taken more seriously by all the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and those who may not have done so in the past. I would like to remind all of us that the Institute of Protection and Equality of all these years has been constantly functioning in the past and on times when it was difficult, when it seemed to have many technical and material problems in the functioning of this institution. The SVM parliamentary group and all of us in the party believe that we must all fight together against all forms of discrimination in the society that exists and together make efforts to protect all categories of society. The main goal is to improve the living conditions of all and build such a society in which all citizens will really have a chance of progress. Thanks, among other things, to the strong institution of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, we will create even better conditions for all, in line with the guidelines of the modern European society for which we stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28983	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28984	Dear Presidents, distinguished Mrs Jankovic, the MPs, the SDS parliamentary group, will not support this proposal for two reasons for Serbia and Green Serbia. The first reason is that the Rules of Procedure were violated, but in a serious way threatened by the integrity and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, by the fact that the Proposer, which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, or members of that Committee, received the biography of Mrs Jankovic at the sitting, or at the entrance, at the door of the room where the sitting was held. Therefore, the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives had no opportunity to read and learn about Mrs Jankovic's biography or any information Mr Martinovic, as chairman of the Committee, spoke about. At that session, I asked as a member of the Committee for the session to be postponed for 48 hours, for two days, so that MPs could get acquainted with Mrs Jankovic's biography, and so that they could decide on one important issue in a competent way. The colleague before me spoke of the importance of the institution of the Commissioner for Protection and Equality and the fact that it protects all those who are discriminated against and that the Law prohibiting discrimination provides for a series of provisions that empower her to protect both women from violence and children and minorities and all those who are threatened. For such an institution, that is, a man who should lead such an institution, we received a biography at the session itself. I asked you afterwards, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, of the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to repeat the procedure, i.e. to withdraw this proposal and to enter into a regular procedure. For that time, it has been, I don't know, 15-20 days since that session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, so that members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives can make their arguments. I am Mrs. Jankovic then, she was present, for the first time seen and I could not say a single word competent for Mrs. Jankovic, nor against Mrs. Jankovic. And then I'll tell you about the metrics because after that session, when I was supposed to vote, I found out something from those who are more monitoring this area, but for the beginning of a few more things about the procedure. So, the procedure was harshly violated, nor did we get a call as necessary. I got a personal call by texting, read a text message ten minutes before the session. After a call from reporters who asked me if I knew it was at 4:00 p.m., so in ten minutes, the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives will be decided on by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Of course I didn't believe that question of the press, I really thought that such an important question was not possible to consider in ten minutes, which I have no idea about, and I don't have a biography. After all, I don't have the name of the person to be chosen at all. Of course, unfortunately, I made sure it was true and I got a bio on my way in and I couldn't get to know that biography. I ask the members of the Committee, perhaps as one of the two representatives of the opposition on that committee, I was denied that information. Maybe the damage's smaller. It is possible that the members of the majority were the imbiography of Mrs Jankovic, although Mrs Jankovic said on the committee itself that she thanked for her confidence and that she had received information about it that same day. So I doubt anyone knew when she didn't know anything about it herself. So, I ask Mr Veroljub Arsic, a member of the SNS Committee – did he know and read the biography before the session? I ask Besarović Prof. Dr. Vesna from SDPS – did she have a biography, did she read it before the session itself? I refer the same question to Vukmirica Svetislav, a member of the SNS Committee, Jankovic Branki from the SNS, the SNS deputy, Jovanovic Neji from the SPS. I ask Mr Jovanovic – did he have a biography, was he familiar with the candidate before the session? I'm also asking Martinovic, of course. Alexander the President of the Committee – did the biography have before the sitting itself, and why did he not deliver that biography to me and the other members of the Committee, if he had this biography? I ask Micin Zarka also a member of the Committee – did he have a biography from SNS, Nikolic Dragan from SNS – did he have a biography there? Prof. Dr. Zarka from the SPS – is Zarko respected, not here, had this biography? Pantić Biljanu from SNS – did she have this biography? Pastor Balinta – did he have that biography? I also ask Petrovic Petra, seriously this time, Petrovic Petra, did you have Mrs Jankovic's biography before the session? I ask half of Dragan from SNS - did you have a biography? Tomašević Damjanović Tanja from SNS and Chikiriz Mirka- did he have a biography and did they get to know what the distinguished colleague Martinović was saying now, which is that colleague Jankovic knows computer work, that she was a secretary in high school, that she taught high school, I understood that she was a marketing director, that she was a marketing producer, etc? Now you'd go a little bit to the point. So, after that day, when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives decided beyond the prescribed procedures, so we did not have the agenda, we did not have the necessary materials, although it clearly states in the Rules of Procedure, and the session was called but as I said, I am asking now - are some of the information that we have received from networks and coalitions over 200 civil society organisations that have applied for a repeat procedure for establishing the candidate's proposal for the place of trustee for the protection of equality? Here's the letter. The Memorandum includes women against violence, the Roma Women's Network, the Serbia-Circular Network, the Children's Network of Serbia, the Coalition against Discrimination and the Evin Network. So over 200 civil sector organisations have written the following – civil society organisations and networks that have signed this letter require a repetition of the process of establishing a candidate's position as Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. We express our deep dissatisfaction with the way in which the candidate's proposal for the role of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality in whose jurisdiction is the implementation of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. They protest that they are put before a final act, without prior consultations with civil society organisations that have been working for more than 220 years to establish a mechanism to protect human rights and stop discrimination. They are protesting violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No agenda or material was delivered in writing three days before the meeting of the Committee, as ordered by the Rules of Procedure, and that the proposed candidate does not fulfil the conditions laid down in the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. In this regard, they also cite the following – although they do not suspect that the proposed candidate by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, Branko Jankovic, has significant qualifications, we believe that they are not crucial to the area of action of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and cannot be called an experience in legal affairs in the field of protection of human rights. One of the basic conditions is the 10 years of working on legal issues in the field of protection of human rights that Mrs Jankovic does not have. Therefore, they proposed that the procedure be repeated. Of course, they don't, they're not authorized to propose and they can't propose another candidate. However, they basically requested a repeat of the procedure. A colleague who spoke before me said that we should take seriously the function, the importance, the role of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. I don't think it's disputed in this assembly for anyone, nor for MPs, nor for opposition MPs, but it is a questionable fact that we agree to discuss today's plenary debate on the candidate that the proposings found out about at the session itself and get a biography at the session itself. Dear colleagues, dear citizens of Serbia, one of the institutions that should protect your civil rights, the Constitution and the law guaranteed, was proposed by the MPs at the session to receive material, i.e. on their entry into the hall and could not get acquainted with the candidate's name. We don't know if these are party games, whether it's the fact that it's being decided from one place and that the heads of the parliamentary groups, the parliamentary groups, are being put before the final act. We only know the fact that we received the biography in the session itself and that we could not get to know each other nor that colleague Jankovic meets the conditions. From this letter, an NGO from the NGO sector, they say it does not meet. Meanwhile, we also learned that counterpart Jankovic, Mrs Jankovic, is a PUPS candidate. Of course, PUPS has the legitimate right to propose a candidate for the Trustee of Equality, because that is what the Rules of Procedure are meant to do. So, the Commissioner is proposing to the committee on a proposal from the parliamentary groups. Apparently, the initiative for that was given by PUPS. They're colleagues from the PUPS, they probably know if it's their party's proposal and we have nothing against it. However, it was important and important that they submitted the proposal in time to other parliamentary groups, not on the day of the session itself. Is that a substitute for lower pensions? I don't know, the citizens of Serbia know that. Is the fact that the president of the PUPS has been given a directorial post, and Mrs Jankovic is a substitute for lower pensions? Possibly, but also legitimate. We asked only to know, only to know which way, or whom we choose. So does this person have the characteristics that qualify her to be the Trustee for the Protection of Equality? Just that answer, and for that reason, I resigned as vice-president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives yesterday, because I do not want to take part in such a business where such an important institution is demoted, in which the role of members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, which should be placed on the pedestal to have a Constitution and law, is put in that position. That's why, of course, I resigned, my impeachment, because I don't want any part of it. I'm asking questions today. If it is possible to save what can be saved, the Proposer may withdraw this proposal and, in some subsequent period, in two, three, four days, this proposal will again come to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs so that we can make the right decision on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28985	Thank you. In turn, Aleksandar Martinovic is a proponent and then Mira Petrovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28986	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, at the beginning of a collegiate and friendly council for Mr. Veselinović. When asked – what benefits people have from lying, Aristotle said – they benefit from not being trusted even when they are telling the truth. So, Mr. Veselinovic, beware of bringing out lies because even when you're telling the truth, people won't believe you. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What are you talking about?) What did I lie about? You lied less about everything. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What? Let's start over. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What? ) First of all, it is not true that you are merely via text message informed of the session committee. Here, this is a call in the written form of the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law of the National Assembly for Tuesday, 28 April 2015 starting at 16:00. Agenda – one point – setting out a proposal for selecting the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: When did I get it? ) In addition to the call for a session, you received a contribution, a biography... . (Janko Veselinović, from the city: You are lying. All right, all right. Thank you, Mr. Veselinović. I'm lying...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28987	I can try my own discipline to act like I'm telling the MP not to yell - you're lying, but the thing of the concept... (Janko Veselinović, from town: This is what he says. Messenger, you know what you were saying. Please don't. No one was throwing you away. I could've been the first one to say that you got a written answer from me, you kept it quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28988	Thank you, Madam President, but there's really no need to make efforts to defend me. I've suffered far worse than this from DS in all its aggregate states – you're lying, so it doesn't hit me at all. I may be lying, the paper isn't lying. So, with the invitation to the board meeting, you also received the biography of Mrs. Brankica Jankovic. It is very clear from this biography that Mrs Brankica Jankovic absolutely meets all the legal requirements required to be elected Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. What Mr. Vesenovic did not say, among other things, is the fact that Mrs. Maja Gojkovic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 7 April, if I am not mistaken, sent a proposal to all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. an invitation to propose a candidate for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Almost all MP groups in the National Assembly did so. Here, I will now look from left to right to list them: the SDPS Parliamentary Group, the SVM Parliamentary Group, the SPO-DHSS Parliamentary Group, the SPS Parliamentary Group, the JS MP Group, the PUPS Group and the SNS Parliamentary Group. I hope I haven't left any MPs behind. All proposals, i.e. that one proposal by all the parliamentary groups that I have cited, should not be addressed to you, Janko Veseinovic, but those proposals should be addressed to the presidents of the National Assembly. If you wanted to inform yourself who is the candidate of these parliamentary groups for the protection of equality, you would know that it is Mrs Brankica Jankovic, that she is no one's own candidate, that she is not a candidate for any individual party, but that she is a candidate for all the parliamentary groups that I have listed. Also, you could read Mrs. Branko Jankovic's biography long before the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to read it, i.e. to receive it from the president of the National Assembly. What you haven't done, what you, your political party, are making some political martyrs, it's your problem now, it's your political strategy. I personally think your strategy is extremely wrong and it won't take you on a good trip, but I don't want to do it at all. As for the procedure you've been talking about, you've failed Article 203. Rules of Procedure. Article 203(1) deals with the proposal for the selection and resolution of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the council of the Governors of the National Bank of Serbia, the Protector of Citizens, the Commissioner for Information of Public importance and the President, the Vice-President and members of the Council of the State Auditory Institution and other officials of certain laws, by reason of the National Assembly, shall be submitted by authorised applicants. Article 2 – if the law does not lay down an authorised proposing for the selection of officials under Article 1, elected by the National Assembly, the proposal will be submitted by the competent committee of the National Assembly. The committee responsible for the National Assembly in this situation is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. On the basis of the proposal from those parliamentary groups, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has proposed to Mrs Branko Jankovic for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. As chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I insisted that Article 203(3) also be respected. The Rules of Procedure, which he says - before the election of the officials referred to in Article 1, and Mrs Brankica Jankovic is the official to whom the position of the 2nd member relates, but regardless of which, before the election of the officials referred to in Article 1, proposed by the committee responsible of the National Assembly, a discussion is organised with candidates before the National Assembly's committee in charge. Since we had only one candidate, that your parliamentary group, that the DS parliamentary group did not propose a candidate for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, it is their right and I do not touch them in their right. You had an open invitation from the president of the National Assembly to propose a candidate for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. The parliamentary groups I have listed have done so, and your parliamentary group, as well as the DS, has not done so. I respect that, and I have nothing against it. Mrs Brankica Jankovic has been called before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. You also attended the board. Mrs. Branko Jankovic deliberately called for someone not to say tomorrow – and for which you did not invite the candidate for this function to ask him certain questions from his professional work biography and experience, to see if he really met the legal requirements, what kind of person he is, etc. Mrs Branko Jankovic was at that session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and you, Mr Veselinovic, and all other MPs of the former regime could ask any question to Branko Jankovic about what she was doing. As far as these NGOs of yours are concerned, you are contradictory of yourself. If I am not mistaken, you said – over 200 NGOs stood up against Ms. Branko Jankovic, and then you counted them, correct me, six or seven. And then you said, among other things, in this stream of political negative passion that, behold, the objection to the election of Mrs. Brankica Jankovic as Commissioner for the Protection of Equality has some NGO, I'm sorry, I forgot her name, which she has, imagine, is a quote, 220 years in the area of protection against discrimination in the Republic of Serbia. I didn't hear right, I'm a little old, I'm a little bit of a gray head, so I'd ask you, Mr. Veselinovic, to tell me what was the NGO in the Republic of Serbia that has more than 200 years of experience in the area of the ban on discrimination. So, cream on Mr. Janko Veselinovic's case-knowledge cake. Otherwise, Mr. Veselinovic, I'm not a professor. You, I see, is, writes Professor Dr. Janko Veselinović. I know you're a doctor of legal science, but what surprises me is that you don't know the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Janko Veselinovic came to the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law yesterday. We discussed whether these two draft laws on amendments to the Law on Privatisation and Standardisation are in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Mr. Janko Vesenovic suggested that the agenda be added to the agenda, which is to consider the proposal to withdraw Ms. Branko Jankovic's election proposal as Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. I let you say what you had to say. I put your proposal to the vote, completely democratic and in line with the Rules of Procedure. Turns out you didn't have the majority to put into the agenda the point you suggested. You voted for your proposal and, if I am not mistaken, Mrs Gordana Komic voted. All the other board members, I think there were 12 of them, voted against. After that, you took this paper of paper, threw it in front of me and said, "I am resigning as vice president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives." After all, there is Mrs Gordana Komic, there is a record, people could see it through the e-parliament, etc. Then I, as one not exactly ordering a lawyer, gave you one legal lesson, that you could not resign as vice president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to give to me, because I did not choose you, but that you should resign as chairman of the National Assembly, because that is who will be the chairman of the Committee, who will be the deputy board, who will be a member of the Committee, who will be the deputy member of the Committee, it is a matter of political arrangements for all parliamentary groups. When parliamentary groups agree, it is on the agenda of the National Assembly. It has been a practice so far for all parliamentary groups to vote in favour of the proposal of any parliamentary group, if something changes in the composition of a committee, when it comes to this particular parliamentary group. So, you've waited, I'm saying this for the public and for the MPs who did not attend the Committee's meetings, so as not to create the impression that you are some martyrs who have been denied all possible rights, and here you are being forced and discriminated against by some evil assembly majority led by the Serbian Progressive Party. So, when the vote ended and you saw that you only had two votes for your proposal to amend and supplement the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives session that was held yesterday, then you, only after that, removed this paper, threw it in front of me and spoke out loudly – I am resigning to the post of Vice-President of the Committee. I said – okay, thank you, but forward your resignation to the President of the National Assembly and you, I see, did it yesterday, 25 May 2015 and your resignation was filed under the number 118-1440/15. What do I mean? Mrs Brankica Jankovic is a joint candidate for all of those parliamentary groups that I have listed. Mrs Brankica Jankovic is not a member of any political party or of the United Pensioners of Serbia. On behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, and thank God the SNS parliamentary group is so large that it can choose itself Mrs Branko Jankovic, therefore, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I am now telling you that the SNS parliamentary group will vote for Brankica Jankovic's election, because it is a person who is not unknown to the Serbian public, she has performed significant state functions. You saw it was a lady with a very impressive professional and professional biography. Those diabolical comments of yours, she was the director of marketing, she was teaching high school, etc., they're just pieces of her biography. Much more than that are the parts that say that Mrs Branko Jankovic was directly engaged as a graduate lawyer in the affairs of human rights protection and freedom in the ministry, in other state bodies, bodies, international institutions, etc. So, with full satisfaction, pure heart, pure cheek, because we know that we respected the law, because we know that we respected the Rules of Procedure, we will vote for Mrs. Brankica Jankovic's election. I can already congratulate her on that choice because I'm sure she'll be elected tomorrow. I want her to show full commitment to the job. I want her to invest all of her legal, professional and professional qualities to improve the position of so-called. vulnerable social groups, which are not few in Serbia, given the difficult economic and financial situation in which the country is located, which is the legacy of the former regime. I don't think it's going to be easy on her at this function, but the support of the SNS for everything she does, in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Constitution, will have at any moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28989	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Mrs. Petrovic, you want a replica, if I understand correctly, or are you reporting as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group? (Mira Petrovic, from the post: I appear as an authorised representative. ) Then before that, the word has the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, a replica for mentioning the name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28990	Thank you. In essence, what Mr. Martinovic said, I will not react to the part that is pure untrue, in the way he reacted to bring new lies. So, I never got Mrs. Jankovic's biography. The first time I saw her was at the board meeting. So it's not true that I got my biography in addition. I can tell, but I called them to say that, I don't think any of the board members got that biography. It is possible that Mr. Martinovic won, I do not rule out, but I am convinced that none of the members of the Committee have received this biography before. On the other hand, he says, there was a call. When we received the text message, I said that, on the site of Parliament there was a call, there was neither the name nor the last name of Mrs Jankovic nor the biography. On the other hand, how could I have informed Mrs. Jankovic? You say I could have informed myself. How could I tell that Mrs. Jankovic was a candidate? Based on what I could find out that Mrs. Jankovic was a candidate? On the other hand, when I said that 200 organizations had been sent, this letter included coalition signatures and those in the memo say they are gathering 200 organisations. Don't be malpractice, I was correct when I said 220 years, I said - 20 years of experience in protecting human rights. You are well, Mr. Martinovic, heard, you are something even younger than me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28991	Time. Thank you. Perhaps you should check with the MPs at the secretary's office to see if you got that call. Here you go, Dr. Alexander Martinovic. Replica, two minutes, here you go, as a proposing officer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28992	Now, we can start this session and make the track school and learn the rules of procedure, and so on. This is an invitation to the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. The invitation, among other things, was on the notice board of the National Assembly. Tell me, Mr. Vesenovic, one case where a candidate for a state office has been proposed on a committee and the name of the candidate and his biography was held in the invitation for a session of the board. Here, give me one case. That's not the case. Now you're asking me if you're supposed to be divorcing. I doubt that you are endowed with such abilities as to be able to divinate, and after all, divination is not exactly in Christian tradition. I repeat this for the citizens, not for your sake, because it's not worth talking to you, a man can give you a thousand arguments, and you're pushing your way and I have nothing against it again. On 7 April 2015, the president of the National Assembly invited all parliamentary groups to propose candidates for a trustee to protect equality. Your MP group didn't do it. I said - I'm not questioning your right. You had the right to suggest, you didn't use it, I don't mind. The parliamentary groups that I have listed have done so. At any time in the period from 7 April to 28 April, you were able to inform the President of the National Assembly who also invited parliamentary groups to propose candidates, to ask – excuse me, Madam President, and who is the candidate of the parliamentary groups for the protection of equality? Madam President Maja Gojkovic would have, or if you had asked one of the vice presidents, I am convinced, you would have the answer to that question, you would have the biography of Mrs Brankica Jankovic. So, there's absolutely nothing controversial here. The Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has been respected, you have been properly informed. Mrs. Branko Jankovic was invited to the Committee session. You could have asked her everything on your mind, every detail of her biography. As I recall, you didn't do it, and as I recall, you didn't vote against Mrs. Brankica Jankovic. So I am now surprised by this negative argument that suddenly, overnight Mrs. Brankica Jankovic is not exactly like being a candidate for the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, because it is said by some NGOs or coalition of NGOs. I've heard about this expression for the first time now of the coalition of NGOs, but come on, every day I learn something new. Here is a fundamental question, does the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality propose a Committee on Constitutional Affairs and is elected by the National Assembly or do we have an obligation to consult NGOs on who will be the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality? There's my colleague, Vesna Rakonjac. Vesna, how many NGOs do we have in Serbia? Here, we have 15,700 NGOs. Do you think, Mr. Vesenovic, that I am like the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and all of them are experts in protecting human rights, all of them, so they sucked all the minds of the world when it comes to protecting human rights, from Natasa Kandic, and in turn all 15,700. Everyone knows everything about protecting human rights, they're all experts, they all have, I don't know what kind of certificates, etc. Do you think that I, as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, or the President of the National Assembly, should now have a conversation with 15,700 representatives of NGOs, their coalitions, ask God what, so that, on the basis of their opinion, I can create a picture of whether Mrs Brankica Jankovic should be the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality or not? You yourself know that it was simply not possible, but ultimately, the Law does not oblige me or the President of the National Assembly to do so. You know, Mr. Veselinovic, whenever you use that argument to say something to an NGO, believe me, it's a thin argument. Very thin arguments because we have one coloring of different NGOs. Nothing like mushrooms after the rain. Nobody knows how they finance, what they do, what they do. Every day, some of the NGOs report that they salt our minds, and we need it like this, and this government move is good, and this government move is not good, and Brankica Jankovic is good, and Brankica Jankovic is not good, etc. That doesn't happen in any democratic state. Here, you tell me, Mr. Veselinovic, when some state officials are elected in Germany, is someone there asking NGOs, who will be elected? Is anyone asking in France? Is anyone asking in the U.S.? Is anyone asking in Italy, Spain? No, it's become a state-of-the-art in Serbia. Several people, probably for some commercial reasons, are building an NGO, and now they, my God, are asking for everything and everything in the Republic of Serbia for God's sake, from what economic policy will be run, to who will be a candidate for the Trustee for the Protection of Equality. So these arguments about these NGOs and their coalitions are very thin for you, and I didn't understand at all how many there are or how many years they have experience in the area of protection against discrimination, etc. You've all mixed up the number of NGOs and years of experience and my year and your year, etc. So, the procedure is respected nothing is controversial, the citizens of Serbia to be completely calm, the best possible candidate has been proposed at this time and I, Mrs. Branko Jankovic, wish a lot of happiness and success in future work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28993	I thank Mr. Martinovic, I think we've talked enough about the procedure and now we're going to the agenda. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. I end this because I do not allow the candidate and dignity of the National Assembly to be defiled in this way. Here's a word from MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28994	I thank Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, dear Mrs. Jankovic, dear and respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, I must admit that I am sorry that at the beginning of today's debate, when we should choose and discuss the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, we are having such a debate. Why do I say that? Well, because we, the MPs, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have chosen to lead the interests of our citizens, should, above all, rely on our work and seek the highest and greatest allies precisely in independent state bodies. I mean here on the Protector of the Citizens, the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matter and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the laws simply gave very broad work to the institution of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. These are almost all areas of social work and life, as the ban on discrimination and respect for equality has been established as a general constitutional principle. I would remind you that in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, even the first 80 members speak of human rights, respect for human rights and freedom of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, the powers and framework of the work of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality have also been established by law, I would remind you, the Law on the Protection of Equality, since 2000. Our Parliament has a Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure clearly define and regulate the procedure for overseeing the work of state authorities, establishing specific laws and considering their reports. It is also the SDPS parliamentary group, and I, in this capacity and as chairman of the Committee on Human, Minority Rights and Gender Equality, which has in its jurisdiction to discuss issues from work, the competence of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, that we fully support the proposal that the ruling coalition has made when it comes to the choice of a person who will lead this very important institution. It's a proposal that supported about 200 MPs, I think, don't hold my word. So this is a proposal for a large number of MPs, and I would say to all the parliamentary groups of the ruling coalition. I wouldn't want us to bring in here now elements of controversy and debate about what happened, how it was. I don't think we'd want to mix with the civil sector. The Serbian Parliament with independent state institutions, with NGOs, must work permanently in future work, but you know what, some coalitions and some 200 so-called. The coalition of NGOs had the right and opportunity, as well as in some previous periods to consult, to give eventually its proposals, whether through the way, to hold talks with parliamentary groups, with some committees within the Republika Srpska Assembly. They didn't do it. On 7 April, Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic submitted a proposal to all parliamentary groups, all parliamentary groups, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law, if they had a proposal or candidates to deliver them to the office and president of the Assembly, that the parent board, the Committee for Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives would have the opportunity to consider possibly more candidacy. No parliamentary group except for those parliamentary groups I mentioned within the ruling coalition had any candidates. Why is it so, you have to ask them, but let's not talk about the possibility that there was no space, that everything was under the grain and overnight, because it's just not true. As early as January, former Gender Equality Commissioner Ms. Nevena Petrusic and the committee I chair have repeatedly stressed that on May 5th, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia said in several interviews that the Republika Srpska Assembly would elect a new Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. So the entire public in Serbia knew about the process, i.e. the deadlines and dynamics that take place when it comes to the choice of this very important institution. So I would ask all those who possibly have objections to what Mrs Jankovic was doing in her former life, to say so here in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all the peoples of the Republic of Serbia. I, I must be personal, had the pleasure and experience of working with Mrs. Jankovic for many years. She's a person who not only responds to those legal criteria, she's primarily a person who's responsible, a person who's a professional, a person who knows how to do his job. I'd say one thing we in parliament rarely say. We see if everything is legal, and so we have to work, after all, but I would add one segment of human personality and those moral traits that Mrs. Jankovic has, which is commitment to work, commitment to those categories of population that are threatened by our society. She's been dealing with the most endangered categories in our society for a decade. They're old, disabled, Roma, children, etc. So, a whole series of the most endangered categories of our society, a whole series of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have been discriminated against. They were an area of her dealings with and for which she was and how she was dedicated. She had what we often forget, she had this human approach, she had this empathy for exactly that kind of people. I think it's important that we point out that segment as well. So, whether someone performed this function or that function, it's important, but to me it's much more significant and much more important whether that person has a sensitivity to endangered categories, whether this person understands discrimination, whether this person knows that he understands the persons being discriminated against and, above all, whether he has the willingness and the will to help them. In this context, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia as one of Ms. Branko Jankovic's proposals for the role of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality will, of course, support her election in the voting day. I deeply believe that both this Parliament and the committee I chair will have a very good ally in the business ahead of us. Because there are discriminations in our society, we shouldn't be ashamed of it, we shouldn't hide it. We have to solve it, we have to help, and there is no better help than sincere and institutional co-operation between the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and an institution such as the Trustee for the Protection of Equality. In that sense, I thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28995	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group, MP Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28996	The esteemed chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, of what our colleague Meho Omerovic said, I really wouldn't have anything more to add. I think the same thing he did, I mean what Mr. Martinovic said and I think that really Mrs. Jankovic's biography is recommended. We, as the PUPS Parliamentary Group, would not mind standing alone behind such a proposal. Of course, with the ruling majority, we supported the proposal ahead of us. What I have most reported for is actually, and I am sorry that Mr. Vesenović is not here, is a speech that was given by Mr. Vesenović and is very offensive to our parliamentary group. What is characterized by PUPS and our president is honor, morality and honesty. The insinuations Mr. Veselinović has made are indeed for someone with honor and morality very offensive and I think he should be ashamed of it. Nor did Mr Milan Krkobibic get to run the public company because after two years he will have to support the prime minister in the measures he has taken, nor did we support Mrs Jankovic's proposal to stay in place. Mr. Krkobiæ has shown how a public company is run and whether or not Mr. Veselinović liked it, it is the best result that the Post Office has ever had in its history and I think that in recent history it will remain remembered as a man who has promoted a public enterprise and for the first three months we have over a billion gains. On the other hand, the support we provided for the reduction of wages and pensions, the support we gave Prime Minister Vukic's concept, did not bring any new position. She brought us only, Mr. Krkobiæ explained this very precisely here in parliament, and to all MPs and Mr. Veseinović why we stood behind it, precisely behind those millions and 48 thousand people who, in the past, were cared about by Mrs. Jankovic, means, the only benefit of all that, if it can be called someone's recognition that we received from the prime minister that we were the only one willing to give up, unlike all who remembered the pensioner in the last period. Years ago, no one has dealt with them except the United Pensioners of Serbia. I think Mr. Vesenovic needs to think a little bit about the statements he made. I think it's really offensive, and I have to say, once again, he's deeply ashamed of what he said. As for Mrs. Jankovic, we stand behind this proposal and we will always stand behind all people who have such moral qualities and biographies behind them. All I have to do is look back at this non-governmental sector. I don't remember when Mrs Petrusic was elected that she needed the consent of the NGO at the time. But anyway, I know that as many petitions as there are against, there are petitions for Mrs. Jankovic. We as a party that truly deals with the endangered and vulnerable categories of this society, we do not chase ghosts. We are really looking ahead, watching how we can help all these people, and that is why we are behind this proposal and today we will vote for Ms Jankovic as the PUPS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28997	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Aleksandar Jugovic, as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28998	Dear President-in-Office, respected counterparts, Mrs Branko Jankovic, at the beginning of my brief presentation, I will first thank Neveni Petrusic for his dedicated work in his five-year term, as building a trustee institution in this area of action is important for a country that develops its institutional democratic capacities. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is an independent, independent and specialised state body whose responsibility is to protect against discrimination and improve equality. Serbia's constitution guarantees equality between people and prohibits everyone from treating people equally, that is to say, putting people in an unequal position based on any of their personal qualities. So the job of the trustee is to eradicate all forms of discrimination and achieve full equality in all areas of social life. Our past, the time of transition, has ruined moral verticals. We were disoriented from the wars of the '90s. The most drastic were examples of religious and national intolerance and conflict. The general national hysteria has also resulted in an overall collapse and has distanced us from the principles of modern Western civilization. That is why the obligation of this Parliament, and the burden of our and the generations behind us, is even greater, many of the ideas that are best seen in young people, how some right can give you the force or better to say violence, as they wrongly think – have survived wars and remained conscious to this day, and so the complete deviation from that legacy is more than necessary. The creation of a modern society, ready to join the EU, as someone who sincerely believes in the highest standards of democracy, should be the goal. It is also significant that the Commissioner will be a woman again, because of the importance of gender equality. I remember using similar arguments five years ago, individuals from this parliament challenged the election of Nevena Petrusic, and now they regret her departure. I therefore want a lot of happiness and success in the future work of Branko Jankovic, which will be supported by the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction and the Democratic Party of Serbia in the Day of Voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u28999	I thank Mr. Jugovic. The word has a folk MP, Olena Papuga, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29000	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs Jankovic, honourable fellow MPs and MPs, I will also begin by commending the work of the last Commissioner, Mrs Petrusic, and I think that she has opened up and cleared the way for everyone to take care of human rights, of the rights that someone may care more about, someone less, but I think they are the way to one of the EU's tolerances. They show how we can live with one another and how we should actually live. In the past five years, Ms. Nevena Petrusic, as a trustee, has acted as an independent and independent state body, seeking to fully achieve her role as a central institutional mechanism to combat all forms of discrimination. Discrimination victims were made available to effective, fair, transparent and objective proceedings on complaints of discrimination, which resulted in numerous opinions and recommendations based on domestic and European anti-discrimination standards. With this approach, Ms Petrusic, as a trustee, has established a stable and reliable legal practice during the last five-year period that can serve everyone as a basis and a guideline in the application of various anti-discrimination regulations. An important segment in the work of the trustees in the past period has also been a proactive action on the plan of affirming the principles of non-discrimination, equal opportunities and tolerance towards national, religious, sexual and other minorities and promoting a value system in which the diversity of human identity is fully accepted, respected and respected. Of particular importance were the recommendations made by the trustees to achieve equality, addressed to public authorities and other social actors. The recommendations were aimed at removing the causes of structural, individual discrimination and creating conditions for the establishment of real equality between individuals and other groups. All activities were an expression of Mrs Petrusic's efforts as a trustee to contribute to raising the public's conscience in the problem of discrimination, to encourage the wider use of legal protection instruments against discrimination and to increase the visibility of the trustee institution and the transparency of its work. It contributed significantly to all public authorities in co-operation with civil society organisations and other social actors intensifying efforts to prevent and combat discrimination in Serbia. It is evident that the social reality in Serbia on the one hand marks tolerance and respect for diversity, but on the other hand they are deeply rooted and extended gender, ethical and other stereotypes and prejudices and a high level of social distance towards individual national, religious, sexual and other minorities. That is why, despite all this, it is relevant that Mrs Petrusic crossed the path in her five-year work, we see it as very positive. At the end of her term, we can conclude that Serbia has established a satisfactory legal and strategic framework to prevent discrimination and achieve equality. Given that the rule of law, social rights, human and minority rights are fundamental principles guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, given the fact that there are three key values on the way to full membership in the EU – democracy, rule of law, respect for fundamental rights; it is necessary to give full support in the work of the new trustee. On the other hand, this implies that the choice of a new trustee must be deprived of the influence of day-to-day policy, based on human and professional qualities. The new trustee must work committedly with all social actors to remove the cause of discrimination and strengthen institutions operating in the field of human rights. Only such approach, equality, equal opportunities and tolerance towards national, ethnic, sexual, religious and other minorities can become comprehensive values in Serbia. The way of non-discrimination is the only way towards an open, modern, fair and inclusive society, a society in which each individual is independent of sex, national and any other belongings allowed to enjoy equal rights under equal conditions. We offer the future trustee full co-operation in achieving a Serbian vision held by the League of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina, as an open and tolerant society, equal people, who provide everyone with equal opportunities for society, in which all forms of discrimination have been eradicated and we wish you success in your work if you vote tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29001	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, the authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group, Mrs Gordana Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29002	Thank you. My contribution to the debate on selecting trustees for the protection of equality will be divided into three parts. In the first part, I'm talking about the context in which this choice takes place. In the second procedure under which the third procedure takes place on candidate credibility. The context is extremely interesting to me because it is not a small pleasure to listen to the promoter, the formal promoter under the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and to know that with the same kind of barbecue, it was against the content of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination and of course its application, that I am not talking about the choice of an institution. I think that's good, I'm talking about pleasure. Why is it still a pleasure? Because much is learned when such a talk is heard and what is learned is that what was the content when the promoter was distinctly against the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Now that it is pronounced for the defence of the procedure that the candidate is proposed to the National Assembly, in both cases it is a mockery of the rule of law, a pronounced, passionate and obviously difficult to destroy, but it will be crowned in time. The context is also my personal message to the candidate because in this Assembly in 2012 the same infinitely commendable words, in which I do not enter the truth, absolutely, thanking her colleague by his last name, the patron of the citizens Sasa Jankovic. I told him there was a time waiting for him where there would be a lot of power spilling into his brain. Unfortunately, I was right. I would like to be wrong when it comes to the context chosen by the trustee for the protection of equality, but the sentences we heard here in the debate do not give me hope that I will not be right because here it is said that you are elected and that all of this is just a formality, congratulated on your choice, and that can be a rhetorical matter, and may be a fundamental illustration of mocking the rule of law and the day we spend here discussing the procedure and the credibility of candidates or at least trying to do so. It is quite clear that how the debate is going and how the argument is going, that as the political language puts it, you have a 202-vote package; you do not have my vote. He doesn't matter to most of us. He's not important to you either, but he's important to me because it's important always, especially when you vote on such a delicate sensitive thing as constitutional matter and discrimination to know why you vote. It is a problem of the lack of integrity of our MPs and it is difficult to destroy and crown, but it is inevitable to be reduced. In that context I'm talking about that I'd like to solve it and that the decision I have now, that it can do without my vote because it doesn't matter to anyone, to show that there was space, that there was debate and that there was procedure to get my vote too. He's gone now. The context when it comes to selecting trustees is also the fact that before you who will be elected as trustee for the protection of equality, it is quite obvious for anyone who has been engaged in human rights and the rule of law, that the law here is a weapon and not a tool. You'd have a lot of work in this assembly, you can't, of course, do things by nature until one of us speaks to you, but it's a context and it's a context that's hard to crown, but it will crown in the end, and we'll all learn that laws exist because there is also a rule of law, not because of the mercy of the rulers of any kind. The procedure has been discussed on several occasions about criticism for the procedure which explains that it was quite in line with the Rules of Procedure and the law and often the procedure in our society is what is in theory, I will not talk about it, it is called yesterday the pink elephant that is in the room. It's a theory when a group of people in the room know exactly what it's about, and nobody's going to say what it's about because it's a culture procedure. It takes a lot or total indisposition to rule of law or ignorance of procedure, so let's say that your choice was fully in line with the procedure, but that's the right interpretation. I don't think it's a good interpretation that the deadlines, the delivery of documents that talk about candidate credibility and the way the decision was made, are in line with the procedure. It is on the will of anyone who has the authority for the procedure to call it culture. I'll never call her culture. And there's a problem that's been unnecessarily created. It's also now a mixed part of the context, part of the procedure. If you already have 200 votes, if you already have all the space in which you can interpret the procedure as anybody's will, why cause such cases of strangulation of the elemental lines of communication between the MPs, the board's meeting and the documentation submitted at the point? Unnecessary damage and it's a paradigm, a paradigm for your tendency to be a weapon, not a tool. You can, you're so able, and then, unfortunately, work in this way unnecessaryly, because you would have been chosen and that it was totally respectful of the procedure and that all documents were delivered, but then fortunately I could be without the objections of that kind. That day obviously hasn't come yet. When it comes to the third remark that I want to share with you, or credibility, your biography is read here and it is said that in every way you absolutely deserve the place of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. I'm not going to talk about your personal credibility, because that's not what my focus is. That's your thing. I'll talk about the context again, the way credibility is seen here, as far as we don't know what human rights are. If it were said that the candidate had five years of experience in protecting social policy, I wouldn't say the word, and I know the results. That it is said that the candidate has two years of experience in bodies fighting violence as well, but there is no sentence – ten years of human rights experience. When I tried to get some information internally, then I was told this way – well, what does it matter, it will apply regulations and futures. Well, it does, because the law says you have to have 10 years in the field of human rights. Social policy is not human rights. Working in social, protection, social policy protection measures is work in the administration, working in bodies where you fight violence is a task in the administration. It all looks like the area of protection of human rights, and it is, in part, old and threatened, but it's not what it says in the law. It's not an interpretation to me, it's a member of the law that's ahead of us, one of which is one of the members and the choice of the Protectors, therefore, because of the public and not doubting that the candidate, and doubting that many of us know what this law says, because there's little who reads, but there's a very solid thing, which is a common shame, and it's going to pass. Therefore, this law says that discrimination and discriminatory treatment are any unwarranted making of differences or unequal treatment, i.e. failure, exclusion, restriction or giving of championships in relation to persons or groups, as well as members of their families in an open or hidden manner, which is based on race, skin color, ancestors, citizenship, nationality or ethnic background, language, religious or political convictions, gender, birth identity, sexual orientation, property, birth, genetic personality, health status, disability, marital and family status, condemnation, age good looks, membership in political, trade union and other organisations and other real, or assumed personal properties, in the text of personal property. Discrimination is unequal, unfair, and in this case and an illegal treatment of someone because of his personal qualities that he had no influence on. That's why it's called personal property. Equalizing this with experience in social policy means not good enough to defend candidate credibility. If I had the opportunity to support your candidacy, I would never have dared to claim that you are credible in the function of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. The law cites all forms of discrimination. The law also states what hate speech is, where it says in Article 11. – it is prohibited to express and share information and opinions that encourage discrimination, hatred or violence against the person or group of persons because of their personal characteristics in public journals and other publications, at meetings and places available to the public, writing and displaying messages or symbols or otherwise. The law also defines disturbing and humiliating treatment, as well as severe forms of discrimination and difficult forms of discrimination are at point 1. – challenge and promote inequality, hatred and intolerance based on national, racial or religious membership, language, political definition, gender, gender identity, sexual identity and disability; under point 2. – the promotion or conduct of discrimination by the public authority and in proceedings before public authorities; 3. – propagating discrimination through public messages, etc. I want to really share during this debate only the key provisions of this law, which show the necessity that someone really has been dealing with human rights for ten years in the definition of that term. When it comes to the election process, I'm not asking for special answers from the promoter, because I know that the ease will be repeated to interpret that everything was great. If everything was great, then why did it take to get past deadlines and explain later that it was great? But, I repeat, it is at the will of the ruling majority, at the will of all those who do not see any problem in the manner in which the procedureal selection was done at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the way in which we conduct this debate here. Whether or not it will be confirmed or interpreted that the candidate has at least ten years of experience in legal affairs in the field of human rights protection, that I have no hope of convincing anyone that there is a huge difference between social policies, between implementing policies in the field of violence and working on human rights protection, but I sincerely want to, because I care much more about it, to the continued growth and strength of this institution than to have any of us right or not to be right. Therefore, I will have strong support for any process that will show in the future that the institution of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality continues to deal with its work. It is very easy to welcome, very easy to check, since the Trustee for the Protection of Equality has the obligation to submit reports to the National Assembly and committees competent and parent for work, so it will be very easy to determine how much we understand and understand in the field of human rights, the protection of human rights and whether a candidate has high moral and professional qualities when it comes to public work that the Assembly will trust her for at least five years or for the first five years. At the sessions on which these reports will be spoken, I would like to say that I am wrong, when I find that the very poor interpretation of what is the choice procedure of the Commissioner is and that it is still not necessary here to argue that its moral and professional qualities and years of experience are such that no one should even consider asking - how did you as a candidate and what happened to the procedure? Out of such a lack of affection for the rule of law and about such an indemnity of culture of procedure, the damage can only be common, and the benefit cannot be to anyone. I can only repeat that I hope that through the first report, the quarterly or second report, we will see that it is possible that there is no 10 years of experience, and that it is quickly learned what is the area of protection of human rights and that it is then followed by the provisions of the Law, on the basis of which the Trustee, in this case, the Trustee for the Protection of Equality has been elected. The change in our society is much more important than our political folklore, not reading from each other and from the exchange of ignorance and lack of consciousness about how important our rule of law is to us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29003	The word is by Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29004	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I listened carefully to Mrs Gordana Komic's presentation and I really don't want to repeat myself when it comes to procedure. I explained in detail that the procedure by law and by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was implemented to the end and completely and with this question I no longer want to deal with. As for the illusions and insinuations that Mrs Jankovic has not had 10 years of work experience in the field of protection of human rights, it is simply not true. Mrs. Brankica Jankovic, here I have now calculated precisely, reading her biography, has at least 12 years of work experience and all these 12 years of work experience relate exclusively to different areas of protection of human rights. What I can't understand, despite my best wishes, is when someone says, someone who's a longtime MP and someone who's been involved in politics for many years, social policy is not an area of protection of human rights. Excuse me, what is it? When you are directly in charge of implementing a social policy that involves different types of state aid to socially endangered citizens, I really don't understand how this has nothing to do with protecting human rights and freedoms. Mrs. Brankica Jankovic is in her career, and let me remind you, when it comes to the lady then it is a little awkward to bid and mention the years, but it is a relatively young woman, Mrs. Brankica Jankovic was born in 1973... In my professional career from her biography, which I can read, as can all of you other MPs, it is very clear that Mrs Brankica Jankovic was engaged in not only social policy, but that she participated in once as a team head, sometimes as a participant, in various projects relating to the protection of women from domestic violence, do not tell me that this is not an area of protection of human rights, that she was involved in the protection of mentally ill persons, do not tell me that this is not the protection of human rights, that she was concerned with child protection, do not tell me that this is not an area of protection of human rights. I said that I listened carefully to Mrs Gordana Komic, here, I am now asking one question, let it be rhetorical, that it should not be referred to Mrs Komic. Tell me, if all of this is not an experience in the field of protection of human rights, then what is a job in this country for which you can say reliably – well, this job is the only job where a man gets 10 years of work experience with a completed law school in the field of protection of human rights. Social policy, these are not human rights, protecting mentally ill persons, not human rights, protecting women from domestic violence are not human rights, protecting children is not human rights. Then what are human rights? Then I'm talking about human rights, like a doctor of law science, I really don't know anything. Tell me what the job is in this country or another country where you can say with complete certainty that only this job is exclusive in the sense that there can be 10 years of work experience in the field of protection of human rights. Listening to Mrs Gordana Comic, I get the impression that no man, no man and no woman in the Republic of Serbia has the credibility to be a trustee for the protection of equality, because there is no 10 years of work experience in the field of protection of human rights, and that protection of human rights is defined so that human rights is not really known. What is protecting human rights, if it's not social policy, caring about mentally ill persons, disabled people, children, women? I don't understand what human rights are, how they protect themselves, who protects them, and what institutions people need to work for, so that they have 10 years of working experience in the field of protection of human rights. As for these purely political insinuations, which were obviously addressed to my account, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination was adopted in 2009, whether or not, the minister was, if I am not mistaken, Mr Svetozar Čiplic and, when Mrs. Komic talks about the context, I will use that magic word. What was the context of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination? A parade of pride, i.e. the imposed thesis to violate the rights of members of the so-called so-called "Republic of Serbia". LGBT populations. It was a context in which the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination was passed. There were colleagues who, as I was in 2009, were MPs and the whole debate on the bill, which was then held in the National Assembly, but in King Milan, by then Minister Svetozar Ciplic, was reduced to whether the Pride Parade should be held in Serbia and whether the rights of members of the LGBT population were compromised in Serbia. At the time, you were popular with various representatives of gay associations, lesbian associations, etc. They weren't stripping off small screens, holding press conferences, etc. Under pressure from these NGOs in the National Assembly came the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination. I remember well, in the end, it can be checked through stenographic notes, 90% of all discussions in the National Assembly focused on whether or not the rights of members of the LGBT population are at stake in Serbia. There were few words about women suffering domestic violence, there were few words about children, few talk about members of the Roma national minority who in Serbia, but not only in Serbia, but everywhere in the world, live hard. The focus of the attention of all MPs was on members of the LGBT population. Representatives of these NGOs, if I am not mistaken, even came to the National Assembly, brought some of their petitions, suggestions, evidence of how they were discriminated against, etc. The entire non-discrimination story was based on a ban on discrimination against a largely relatively small social group, a member of the LGBT population. What is taken from me as evil, so at least I understand it, and you correct me if I'm wrong, then I said publicly, and I stand behind those words today, I haven't changed my mind about it. I have nothing against any citizen of the Republic of Serbia who has, let's say, a different sexual orientation whose sexual orientation is directed towards the same sex. I don't mind. I don't mind if such a citizen of the Republic of Serbia goes to school, finishes college, gets a job, gets all the other civil rights, goes to the movies, goes to the theater. I don't mind it, but what I really can't understand, I didn't understand it in 2009 either, I don't understand it in 2015, here I am speaking as a citizen, I speak as a father, I don't speak as an individual, I really didn't understand it in 2009, as I don't understand it in 2015, I don't understand the need for someone to publicly manifest their sexual orientation in a way that directly provokes those who don't have the same sexual orientation as him and who organizes all these meetings knowingly with intent and purpose, to challenge incidents, clashes with the police, conflicts with those who are not the same sexual orientations as they are. That's what I said in 2009 and I repeat it in 2015. If that's what you thought, that I was against the Anti-discrimination Act, because I was against public manifestations, different sexual orientations or any form of sexual orientation, then you're right. I think it's inappropriate, I think it's unnecessary. The state of Serbia said that itself, the state of Serbia has much bigger problems in 2009, as it did in 2015 since it will be or will not be held a "gay parade". In 2009, it was practically the second year of the global economic crisis, which unfortunately took place in the Republic of Serbia. I said Serbia has a greater concern than to deal with the fictional thesis that the rights of LGBT populations are at stake. I said the whole nation's in trouble, everyone as a citizen we have huge problems, primarily economic and social. It is impossible for everyone in Serbia to be well, and only the LGBT population's rights have been compromised. That's what I said. That's what I'm saying today. It's hard to live in Serbia today. It's hard, we all have money, we don't have enough jobs. The Serbian government is doing everything possible, we MPs who support it are doing everything we can to create new jobs. The MPs asked yesterday - what about the workers who will lose their jobs in the firms that are restructuring We are struggling to provide them with new jobs. Yesterday, Mr. Janko Veselinovic indirectly spoke "Calcedonija". What's 60 jobs? What's only 100 jobs?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29005	Please, Mr. Martinovic, come back on the subject please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29006	Here, I'm done. So we are struggling to get Serbia out of the economic and financial crisis, but please, as I said in 2009, whether you are conscious or not, do not show your country as a country where anyone is discriminated against. I was in opposition in 2009 when the government was led by Mirko Cvetkovic, now I am an MP of the ruling coalition when the government is run by Aleksandar Vukic, and then and now I am defending Serbia from the the thesis that Serbia is a state in which any human, civil and minority rights are threatened. It's just not true, we're not a country of discrimination. We simply don't have as a nation in our mentality to terrorize and discriminate. I'm not talking about individuals, I'm not talking about groups. Individuals and groups you have in each country, but generally Serbia is a democratic state, the Constitution is respected, no social group is systematically and with the intention of being discriminated against by the government of the Republic of Serbia, by any state authority. That's what I said in 2009 when I was a harsh critic of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, I say today when I defend the Government of Aleksandr Vukic. So be honest to the end. What is the context of the discussion of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination? The whole story is down, the rights of the LGBT population have been compromised. I said they weren't threatened at the time, that's what I'm saying today. They're not compromised.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29007	I thank Mr. Martinovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29008	I thank and thank you infinitely for the content of this speech, since it is all in favor of my claims, unfortunately. Years are a personal property, not used, written in law. The right to public exposure, it says in the law. Not if it's decent or inappropriate, we can't choose... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: I have the right to my own opinion. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29009	Please, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29010	I ask you not to throw away, I listen very carefully, since this is an incredibly important topic. I received confirmation of everything I claimed in my presentation. What human rights are and what is the difference and place, the application of social protection policies, the application of the Criminal Law, the application of the fight against violence, the author reads before the proposal. That's exactly what this is about. The content of this presentation shows that we have no awareness in this assembly of discrimination, that we think we have rights because we are MPs, to say in this case to members of a different sexual orientation, you can't publicly. That's inappropriate. Or qualified... People's MPs are getting it. Please don't throw away, I listened very carefully. If it bothers you so much that someone has a position and a will for dialogue, I unfortunately cannot help you, except to stay in dialogue with hope that the candidate will understand the credibility of the promoter in this case. She would have had at least three proceedings if this speech had been given anywhere but in the National Assembly. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29011	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinović, replica Mr. Veselinović, it's not enough for someone to mention your name so you have the right to a replica at the moment. [[Janko Veselinović, from the place: I was looking for a replica.]] (Janko Veselinović, from the place: In a negative context is mentioned. ) It's not in a negative context. Thank you. It's nothing to do with this subject. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29012	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. I said, if you listened very carefully to me speak for myself. I know that members of the so-called so-called. LGBT populations have the right to publicly express their sexual orientation, but let me, as a citizen, have the right to say that this is not proper behavior for me. After all, at the Faculty of Law I learned a Latin sentiment that says – What does not prohibit the law prohibit shame. In 2009, I said that it was not in the spirit of the morals of our people, that it was not in the spirit of our tradition to publicize any, not only otherwise, any sexual orientations, and I respect all the rights that these groups have which are listed in the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Never in one word will I ever question a single part of life, health, the integrity of any man who participates, for example. in "gay parade," I don't think so, but I have the right to say that I disagree. Don't tell me I have no right now. I'm right, and that's what I said in 2009 and I'm saying it now in 2015. There's something called morality. There's something called rooted moral values. There's something called a moral in a nation. You can now pass 1,000 laws, but the fact is that most of Serbia's citizens, here's the poll now, that kind of public event doesn't support it. The fact that you're trying to impose something by law, the law can write and respect what it says, but what it's worth when citizens don't support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29013	Thank you. I'm taking a two-minute break. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: The discussion is very good. ) [[After a break.]] Do you have anything to say to Mr. Markovic? Don't throw, please. We continue with the work Rijeka has authorised representative Miletic Mihajlović. Here you go. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29015	The Honorable Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29016	Mr. Mihaylovic, you've received your word as an authorised representative of the SPS. Go ahead, go ahead. The debate, the republics, business applications, Mrs. Komic, has been completed. We made a deal. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29017	Dear Chairman, Mrs Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are already very much discussing one important topic here today. On the agenda, we have the choice of Commissioners for the Protection of Equality and the SPS is certainly interested in this topic, and also in the choice, given that the SPS stands in the position and position that independent regulatory bodies are very important today in Serbia and that we must, through time and through practice and through life, make sure that in their full capacity and express such bodies operate in Serbia, as they do in modern democratic societies. The Republic of Serbia passed the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination in 2009 and the SPS, in fact, our MPs are pleased that they themselves participated in the adoption of this law, headed by Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who was then the chairman of the National Assembly. The ban on discrimination is the cornerstone of democratic society and Serbia as a country in transition is on track to meet the standards of modern democratic society. The passing of this law is a significant step in this direction, so before the ban on all forms and forms of discrimination stems from many international agreements signed by Serbia or earlier by a country whose Serbia is a principal and legal successor, I mean the country of SFRY, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Union of Serbia-Montenegro, finally Serbia on the team and follows the obligations of the ratified agreements on the international plan. On the other hand, the foothold is in the Constitution. Article 21 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia explicitly prohibits discrimination. Also, one chapter is very important and does not treat human minority rights and freedoms so that directly or indirectly all those issues that are significant and which are actually talking about a ban on discrimination arise. There are laws in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia that treat these issues in certain places, but not entirely. On the other hand, there are laws that are entirely committed to prohibiting discrimination, but only this applies to certain social groups, such as Law prohibiting discrimination against persons with disabilities from 2006. However, it was noticeable that the violation of the ban on discrimination against different groups and individuals, according to their personal property, would not be reduced, but would even be strengthened. For these reasons it was important to pass the roof law, it is the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which integratedly advocates and regulates all these issues, a variety and often individual legal norms and connects them and gives them one continent with which this very important issue will be more effectively regulated. By passing this law, Serbia has placed itself in the ranks of countries that have institutionally regulated the ban on discrimination on any basis, but we must say that it is certainly not enough because in reality, in everyday life, we have many irregularities that occur and have consequences of violating the rights of individuals or certain groups and violating the prohibition of discrimination. The law prohibiting discrimination explicitly prohibits discrimination on the basis of many properties, based on birth, race, gender, sexual orientation, age, religion, work, property, marital status, religiousity, disability, political membership, etc. In fact, we can ask the question – what is discrimination and it is certainly an uneven treatment of the equal or equal treatment of the unequal. That must always be taken care of. Our society should be free of fear of reporting an act of discrimination. Of course, we haven't gotten to that level yet and into that degree of understanding and consciousness and we have to work on that plan for a long time with more aspects. So, the adoption of this law, but above all, the constitutional principles in our Constitution that deal with these issues, as well as the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, as well as these other laws specific, in which in certain parts this issue is resolved, all of this remains as a declaratively dead letter on paper, if there is no implementation of these laws, and above all, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. An important role in the implementation of the law is certainly the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, which plays a role not only in preventing discrimination but also in preventing discrimination. There are many prejudices in Serbia today and we need a long time for social, cultural and cultural emancipation. In fact, through educational educational content, culturally, through information, through media political, through sports and economic content, we must educate and build new awareness and understanding of people in our society. So, the whole business on this subject, these issues in preventing discrimination will not end with one law of whatever it is, nor the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, even if it is, to use one term, superman, can edit the issue and bring it to the desired level of modern democratic society. When it comes to the proposed candidate for the duty of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, Mrs Branko Jankovic, I was pleased to work with her on certain issues in a very correct way, first of all on her part, of course and mine, I hope, and in fact there was co-operation in the field of what is the functioning of social institutions in the municipality of Petrovac at Mlavi and the Centre for Social Work. Mrs Brankica Jankovic in her work has shown great responsibility and concern for those parts of the population and for those cases most targeted today. For all things, the SPS parliamentary group will vote for these reasons. I will also point out in the end that, in our understanding, the understanding of the SPS Parliamentary Group, in the work relating to its professional activity and to all those references that give her the right and the possibility to choose this function, that our understanding that it is absolutely fulfilling these conditions, by the fact that it has worked for example. in the Gerontology Centre as assistant director in 2014, perhaps not throughout the year, but it does not matter, as well as in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy as State Secretary for two years, where she certainly had these issues in her work to protect human and minority rights and prevent discrimination. Then she worked at the Gerontological Centre of Belgrade, where she worked from 2006 to 2012, and of course she had previously been in a position to represent the interests of such groups and to act on banning and preventing discrimination. Finally, she also worked at Ruđer Boskovic High School as a teacher of the "Constitution and Right of Citizens" course. Of course it's also one of the moments that gives her such a single legitimacy. I personally think that the next day, or that some other case was, I don't know whether Mrs. Brankica Jankovic was an MP in the previous period, but also that, the fact itself to be an MP, certainly, is one area, or one profession, one activity, so to speak, which fully gives that opportunity to meet one of these conditions. Therefore, for all these reasons, with the fact that the SPS supports the role, importance and work of independent regulatory bodies and entities and does everything possible to ensure that those in full capacity and express their contribution to the further democratic development and emancipation of our society will vote in favour of Mrs Brankica Jankovic's election as Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29018	Thank you, Mr. Mihajlovic. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go, Dr. Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29019	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected Mrs Branko Jankovic, respected fellow MPs, is today discussing a very important topic, which is the choice of Commissioners for the Protection of Equality. When I was getting ready for today's discussion, I had a completely different concept and a different idea that we would talk in a different way. However, since the debate ran in the tone in which it ran, I simply have to look back at some parts of the previous debate. When we talk about the context, and it means, in the right sense, a relationship of thought in speech, meaning, a combination of words, I think that Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic spoke very meaningfully and explained the way and choice for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. I do not consider the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative a formal proposal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is a fully legal proposing, on the basis of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, Article 28. Therefore, everything is done by procedure and by law. What may be controversial for previous speakers is that this law was passed in 2009, so that there was then an application or an outflow of power, as we heard, in the head and that they couldn't expect that in some years to be different from the citizens, so they made such laws fit only those who are currently in power. Another Nikola Pasic told his minister, when he proposed such a law that was made so that the opposition could never come to power, he said – so give it a little dress, maybe we will be the opposition someday. As for the other words, which is the word “paradigma”, I completely agree, because it is a form of reputation, simply translated, or a model by which something is built or created. In scientific theory, the most general model by which individual principles and laws are built. I think we've absolutely acted on such a single model and I totally agree with the previous speaker when it comes to 'paradigm' and I think that the procedure is fully respected here. As for each other's speech, he caused a great deal of bitterness with me, because in that one speech alone, I found a violation of Article 8. The law prohibiting discrimination, which is a violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations. In one speech, we heard that Mrs Brankica Jankovic, for some reason, cannot have equal rights, and therefore also obligations, which are not supported by adequate facts. We can also say that there are elements in Article 11. - hate speech. We can also say that there are elements in Article 12. – disturbing and humiliating treatment. We can also say that there are elements of Article 13(1) – the difficult forms of discrimination, which says – the cause and incentive of inequality, hatred and impatience based on... Well, I don't want to read about it now on what basis, but among other things, political commitment. Even if it is true that Mrs Brankica Jankovic is a member of a particular party, that does not mean that she should be discriminated against in this way. Then, we also have a violation of Article 25. - discrimination over political or trade union membership. So, only in one speech did we have a series of violations of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, and that is the day when we choose the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, and it happens that the one who needs to worry about protecting the equality of citizens is exposed to the worst possible aspects of discrimination and that is from the officials of the Serbian state. One state, if it wants to be modern, must implement a legal environment in all its institutions in which all citizens will be equal. In the end, I want to say that I believe that Mrs Brankica Jankovic not only deserves the trust of our citizens, but also that she will do her job well. I don't want to repeat her biography, but what I wanted to say is that in fact, preventive work to prevent the emergence of all forms of discrimination is something that is very important. So when a citizen reaches the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, that means his rights are already at stake. We need as a society to make sure it doesn't come to that. I think the role of the media in that is enormous. Mrs. Brankica Jankovic worked in the media and has extensive experience of how it is done. Then, the role of educational institutions, preschool inclusions, education of persons with developmental disorders, education of persons with disabilities. Do you think that the person who spent and worked in school has not had enough experience, knowledge and skills to deal with this problem and to represent the interests of damaged, or marginalized groups of people? Then, kids. A very sensitive group and, practically, to me, even more sensitive groups, which are older people. Mrs Brankica Jankovic has been at the head of an institution for a long time and only she knows how difficult it is to work with people who are in years, who are also persons with a certain degree of disability and how their rights should be represented and their interests and prevent and violence against such persons. That's what I was gonna say. I think there is no dispute over the SNS voting for the election of Ms. Branko Jankovic for the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, and what I would like to finally add is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and received a letter from the Association "The Power of Friendship – Amiti", with a list of 30 associations of citizens, or NGOs, who support the election of Branko Jankovic as Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. If you'll excuse me, I'll read them all. These are: "The Power of Friendship -Amiti", Belgrade; Alliance of Pensioners of Serbia, Belgrade; Movement of the Third Age of Serbia, Belgrade; Gerontological Society of Serbia, Belgrade; City Organisation of Pensioners, Belgrade; Association of Pensioners from Croatia, Belgrade; Croatian Humanitarian Association of Life; SOS Phone for Women and Children Victims of Violence, Association of Women Sremica; Association of Okrelje Belgrade; Alliance of National Organisations of Persons with Disabilities of Serbia, Belgrade; Association of Lužnatsk Handicraft; Association for Cerebral and Child Paralystology of the Municipality of Požega; Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Serbia; Alliance of Blind Serbia; Alliance of Blind Serbia; Alliance of the Associations of the Blind and Failing of Serbia; Association of Serbia's "Balticians of Serbia"; Association of the "Majors of the Republics of Serbia "Majors of Serbia"; Alliance of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's "Bal Association of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's "Bal Association of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's "Bal Association of Serbia"; the Republic of Serbia's "Bal Association of Serbia's Republic of Serbia-Bal Association of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia; the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia and Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of the Republic of Serbia of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia of the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia of the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Thank you to them, and I hope that we too will join and choose the true Commissioner for the Protection of Equality in tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29020	Thank you, Dr. Rakonjac. Now we move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic. Here you go, Mr. Stosic, and let the MP Vladimir Pavicevic be prepared. Since Mr. Stosic is not here, the word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of Mr Becic's Assembly, Mrs Jankovic, the candidate for the protection of equality, I am very sorry that today in this debate and the candidate cannot participate. It is an awkward situation, gentlemen, for one MP to speak of another person who is a candidate for a certain position, and there is no opportunity for any kind of dialogue and debate. In addition, gentlemen, I believe that the candidate for this position, Mrs Jankovic, would certainly explain this candidacy much better than Mr Martinovic did, and therefore perhaps convince the MPs and opposition to vote in favour of this proposal. Dear gentlemen, I have also agreed here with Mrs Rakonjac, who is a very important issue, acting on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, that the debate and decision on the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is a very important issue, that this decision is a very important decision, given the importance and role of the trustees. Dear gentlemen, since we agree that this is an important issue, then I feel that the approach to decision-making and debate on such a matter must be very serious, let me put it this way, impeccable. Another thing I want to say here, I believe that, gentlemen, both human rights and human freedoms are always very important issues in a modern democratic state. Well, it is enough, gentlemen, to remind ourselves, if nothing else, and the contents of our Constitution, to make sure that the issues of human and minority rights and freedoms are the most common part, along with the part of the regulation of government, and in our Constitution here, but all of this, respected gentlemen and Mrs Jankovic, to address you, we need to suggest that we absolutely respect all procedures, seriously approach and make this act of choice of trustees, or trustees impeccable. I am so sorry before, Mrs Jankovic, that you cannot participate in the debate, but I am very glad that you respect this home by sitting, listening, attending and hoping that soon, on the report, we will be able to discuss here. There are two notes that I would like to announce to the progressive majority first of all here, and to Mr Martinovic and Mr Giric, who advertises here when other MPs speak, and when they are to participate in the dialogue, I do not notice any kind of reporting here, gentlemen. Perhaps now Mr. Giric decides to answer. Look, we have two very important situations here. One thing is - Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, please, this is, I think, one warning thing about this debate. Mr. Janko Vesenovic, who is also a lawyer, who is a doctor of legal science, respected gentlemen, resigned because the rules of procedure for establishing a proposal for selecting trustees to protect equality were severely violated. Mr. Janko Vesenovic has told us here, dear gentlemen, that he has learned who the candidate is and that he has received more information about the candidate, i.e. the candidate, here, Mrs. Jankovic, you may not have even known about it, until the session of the Committee was scheduled to decide on a proposal for a trustee, or trustee. Mrs. Jankovic, I think it is important that you record here that this was the approach of the advanced majority on the committee to deal with this issue, which means that Mr. Martinovic and the other gentlemen here did not even respect the integrity of the candidate, i.e. the candidate we are to discuss here today. Mrs. Jankovic, I think this may be useful for you to think about how a candidate was proposed. All of this, Mrs. Jankovic, has been hit with the importance and importance of this place that you are now a candidate here. Another thing, gentlemen, here is suggested that there are some criteria for choosing this position. It would also be important for me to hear from Mrs Jankovic, but this cannot now, unfortunately, be it really administrative and managerial jobs that we can identify with experience in legal businesses in the field of protection of human rights. Mr. Martinovic did not convince me, but perhaps Mrs. Jankovic would have been more successful if she had a chance to talk. I'm very sorry he's not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29022	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29023	Mr. Pavicevic, here's another Latin wisdom for you. Qui percentage in litteris, sed deficit in moribus, plus deficit, quam percentage. He who advances in science and goes back to morality is more backward than he's making. If I had proposed to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, Boris Tadic, Commissioners from the former regime would have said – and why Boris Tadic? So that's what's in the mentality of a part of our people, according to Branko Copic, to be anti-anti-opulent. If I had suggested you, that I had suggested Zoran Zivkovic, that I did not know Dr Bradic, and that Blagoje Bradić, and that Zivkovic, as well as this, and what Brankica Jankovic did. Now I can kill myself on the board explaining that the procedure is respected. Yes, Mrs Brankica Jankovic has all the conditions to be Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, that the procedure has been implemented until the end, that the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination is respected. You can always tell – yes, but Mr. Janko Veselinović is right, and you are wrong about Martinovic. What I also can't understand, the good part of your exposure was convincing what Mr. Janko Veseinovic said. Perhaps he has given you the authority to be his political lawyer, so that you can now give us some additional arguments in favour of what Janko Veselinovic said. Personally, I think that such a way of political dialogue is quite pointless and that it cannot give some useful result, but what I can repeat is that the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group will vote for Ms. Branko Jankovic, because it meets the law of the prescribed conditions. And only if you allow Mrs. Gojkovic one little note I forgot to say. Here were the words about Brankica Jankovic having no conditions, not working on human rights protection jobs. Well, wait, and what business was Nevenka Petrusic working on? She was a female professor at the Faculty of Law in Nis. What does this have to do with protecting human rights now? According to that logic, you, Mr. Pavicevic, can be the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, because you are a professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences, just as Nevenka Petrusic could be in the post as well. I don't see any big logic and some big relationship. It's just that this is simply the proposal of the ruling majority, so let's be against it and then out of the small brain we're pulling out the reasons, so we're having a bit of a problem with the procedure, we're having a bit of a problem with Brankica Jankovic, we're having a bit of a problem with Vučić, little Martinović, little Babic, but basically it's all a thin argument. Mrs. Brankica Jankovic will be elected, the procedure has been implemented to the end, and I hope that she will manage to resist all the challenges because the job she expects is not a bit easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29024	Replica. First, Dr. Ninoslav Giric, since you mentioned him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29025	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the Assembly, respected Mrs Brankovic, respected colleagues and colleagues, I really do not understand in what context Mr Pavicevic used me, but representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party, Mr Martinovic and Mrs Rakonjac, have sufficiently explained this proposal. The MP's group said they would vote on this proposal, but Mr Pavicevic didn't come forward, he was just criticising, I don't know what. So I urge Mr Pavicevic to vote for this proposal in the voting day too, because he really doesn't need to look for hair in the egg because he's not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29026	Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, respected Mrs. Jankovic, are three things I want to say now in response to the Members of the People's Party of the Serbian Progressive Party, Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Giric. First of all, to Mr Martinovic, I am in the status of resting at the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade. So this professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences is also in standstill, gentlemen. Just so you know, because I've estimated that I can't do two jobs consecratedly, gentlemen. I have estimated that at this point it is very important that I be dedicated here in the National Assembly to that invitation that I have been chosen and I ask all the Members of Parliament to address me with - MP Vladimir Pavicevic. That's my aphyliation. The second thing, gentlemen, is that Mr. Martinovic here, instead of answering questions that have been asked, answers unsolicited questions, and in his answer, gentlemen, he even mentions some people who are not even MPs here who are not sitting here, who have no connection, gentlemen, with our debate today. The third thing, Mrs. Jankovic, you should hear, Mr. Martinovic today managed to convince all of us here that he thinks he thinks, and I don't know if that's the case now, that he thinks it's administrative management business and that social policy business is a matter of human rights and freedom. Such an argument, Mrs Jankovic, Mr Martinovic can only convince a reasonable man that you are not a good candidate. That's why I said it would be much better for our debate, I believe you spoke instead of Mr. Martinovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29028	Dr. Janko Veselinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29029	I also wanted to point out the vice president to this injury, but it happened again, so I'm advocating Article 27 and he's involved in holding a session. Several other members have been injured and it is the fact that Mr. Martinovic is reporting as a proposing representative and is then taking the floor as deputy head of the parliamentary group and speaking on behalf of the SNS. It's about a time that has an authorised representative and it's about the fact that he's abusing the position. On the other hand, today's Brankica Jankovic's election is on the agenda. I remind SNS representatives that it is not called, as Mr. Giric said neither Brankovic nor his name is Jovanovic, according to the authorised SNS representative at one point. So it's Brankica Jankovic. Therefore, not only did the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives not have the material but they did not seem to have prepared themselves for this plenary session. So it's about selecting Branko Jankovic in one procedure that opposes the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29030	I didn't just understand, you're saying MPs don't have the material, now at the plenary session? (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Or they did not read it.) All right, you're just guessing. I mean, I wanted to see if they didn't have the material to see if the secretary general had done it or not, in that sense, and this is a transparent interpretation. As for Mr. Alexander Martinovic, he is an authorised promoter. (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: Yes, he can speak as a proposing rather than a deputy president of the parliamentary group and a member of the SNS. ) Okay, he's a member of the SNS, but please don't interfere with any other functions and don't accumulate. I really don't know what's going on here, but he is a member of the SNS and vice president, but we'll try to set it out in this debate if it's crucial, and we have the authority to do this point, so we'll be careful. Thanks for the suggestion. Do you want to vote? No, thank you. The word is Biljana Ilic Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29031	Dear Madam President of the Assembly, Mrs Jankovic, dear fellow Members, I would like to say a few words in the context of today's debate on the choice of personality as institution holder of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Today it's this institution, yesterday it was someone else, and tomorrow it's going to be a third, but the pattern stays the same. It's an amazing amount of indulgence that is usually, even always, and this time also pours out into public discourse whenever personal solutions and layouts are involved. Simply, I'm fascinated by what sensitivity is activated by digging through dirty laundry and extricating all kinds of existing ones, and the most often non-existent skeletons from the closet. The man we're running for one of the public functions is most often forced to pass the real and most brutal hot rabbit, so if he endures, he'll talk. Then everything is wrapped up nicely in the democratic process and procedure. In the wishes and needs of various structures, stakeholders to push perhaps their candidate is inaccessible often to take off gloves and hit low below the belt. This is probably how an unmistakably public lynch is meant to lead many potential candidates to give up their candidacy for any public function. Then the most throatful will probably be able to push their candidates through. There's only one little problem here. These most globular manufacturers of noise and anger are most often and especially not those who enjoy excessive public support, but are therefore happy to see guests and conversators in some media who devote far more space to address the public than the representativeness they carry with them. In addition to this aspect, in the story of a candidate for the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, something else has been implicated, which could be called abuse of the right to interpret legal forms and procedures, as if anyone who is or even functionally written had been invited to interpret the law and legal norms. If that were the case, we could close law schools, because then interpreting the law would be assumed, literally, reading and understanding by law, obliging the rules. What I'm saying is, if the authorized assembly board gave its opinion on the candidate, that candidate Branko Jankovic meets the law of the prescribed terms, what authorities are called upon to disprove them? Of course, it is their legitimate right to express their opinion personally, professionally or any other way, only then they risk others commenting on it. Like the people said, the world is hard to please, especially to the citizens of such a deeply divided society as it is today. So we'll agree, even when we get along a little bit. For any candidate, for any function to go alike, as Brankica Jankovic has been passing in recent weeks, because accepting some public function is interpreted as a privilege, and not above all, as a huge responsibility and a great commitment. That we're not going too far, but also, hasn't the outgoing trustee been through anything similar since the time of the proposal and the candidacy five years ago? Well, through the texts on wastefulness in the renovation of official premises of trust, for the selection of associates, breach of public procurement procedures, favouring some of the vulnerable groups, up to the warning that it violates the most formal condition for the Trustee who, during his term of office, must not perform any other public or any other social function. At the same time, it was at least discussed how high-quality and impartially she performed her trusted role as head of a very important independent institution. Anyway, this isn't just a story about Nevena Petrusic, or Brankica Jankovic, but above all a story about ourselves, which by democracy means the right to drag people unpunished through the mud, because we have seen democracy as an opportunity to speak irresponsiblely in public space, which is why, I'm afraid, tomorrow, the most terrible consequence will be that, the best-quality people clone and think themselves that they accept some responsible job. Whose place will then come the creatures whose main feature is that they have thick skin and cheek to withstand this already quite business public lynch? As far as I personally know Brankica Jankovic through several, above all business-provoked contacts and as much as I have read and understood her biography, I think she is fully prepared and able to accept the functions of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and therefore I will be happy to support her choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29032	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aida Ćorovic, and let the MP Mirjana Djokovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29033	I thank the presidents, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mrs. Jankovic, thinking about this topic, reading literature, and somewhere I fell for my eye, just a little back into some historical stories. I fell for an interesting story that is the fluid of the Roman Empire. In fact, the Roman Empire invented a kind of institution called the Roman triumph, and the idea was that whoever returned from battle, from a great campaign, this triumphator in great glory and great honors returned to Rome, where all the citizens of Rome cried out to him, honored him, celebrated him. And you can imagine such a great winner, one great warrior who conquers, then unseen space, returning to Rome, in his glory, but the wise Romans invented an interesting institution next to a triumphator stood a man, some sources claim to be a slave, some say he was an associate or secretary who held a laurel's crown, as a sign of great glory, but who was tasked with standing by the triumphator and whispering in his ear – "Memento mori" - Remember that you are mortal. By going further through history, the human race is used and realized that human beings are very often prone to power, power, money of abuse, so through the history of people have tried to create mechanisms of control over, to say the Ottoman Empire, to the Middle Ages and parliament of the British, to this day when we can say that these are institutions, such as the Trustee or the Trustee of Equality, such as the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Meaning, these are institutions that have, which need to correct power, control power, power, and all those who perhaps out of ignorance, perhaps want that power, they will, they can, they want to, they want to go beyond. My colleague, Comic, has already said the key arguments why I have a disagreement, why I have a misunderstanding with Mrs Jankovic, I have not had the opportunity to meet you in my work before, although I am a longtime human rights defender and for me it is only crucial, does the experience needed in protecting human rights, these ten years, mean, but some colleagues have spoken, does it mean running some institutions? I agree with all my colleagues who say it's the head of a social institution, in a way, you're dealing with human rights on edge, but being at the head of that institution means, first of all, you're dealing with administration, technical matters. That doesn't mean that it's someone's right at the gerontological center, whether or not that person is discriminated against on some other basis. Of course it's important for that person to get food, have a warm bed, have conditions, but it's also not human rights. I think it's for me here right now, next to this key question that I have somewhere, like I'm saying simply for you, and I'm sorry that my colleague Pavicevic says that you simply can't answer our questions. On the other hand, I notice an amazing amount of ignorance about the functioning of justice, the right, I'm not a lawyer myself, but to know fairly well what justice is, I've been a human rights defender for almost a dozen years, and to say this status I've received from international human rights defenders organisations. On the other hand, I also find it amazing that it is an incredible amount of ignorance of the functioning of the NGO sector, and you will be in your work, if you are the Trustee and how you meet the NGO sector. Most of your work will be directly restored through contacts with the NGO sector. Well, it can't be said that there are some organizations, of course there are about 16,000, etc., and not all of them that deal with human rights, or that they don't report, who knows how to finance, which is not true, every non-governmental civil society organization, so who knows one day if he did, it will be clear to him that and how they have to file a report, they owe to their donors, it can be a donor in the country, it can be a donor abroad, but it has to submit a report on the financing of that organisation. Then, we talked about the last choice for the Trustee or the Trustee that it was easy, it was not easy, it was discussed for months and it was conducted in some way by the Polish public, where NGOs participated in their proposals, between Prof Petrusic, another candidate was my colleague Goran Miletic and many organisations had numerous counter arguments and there were discussions in this house. So it's not true that there isn't, that there was no debate. I'd like to know, I don't know if, I don't know, I think that one network organization had Mrs. Slavoljka Pavlovic as a candidate, I don't know if that proposal came at all, I can't judge, did the proposal come at all? It would be good if we had, simply because of one kind of democratic procedure, if we had more candidates. I don't think that the comments, the question of establishing a democratic dialogue, making, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't think. I think it is very important that we conduct dialogue, democratic dialogue, to ask questions to which perhaps we, to which we want to receive adequate answers. But all this because we want to, even if I can say it for myself, because it is very important for me to have the institution that Professor Petrusic has set up with her associates, that she does a smooth good, quality, strong and brave push on. Now I am speaking to you, as colleagues in the joint work, I am sure that there will be a lot of problems and a lot of stumbling, on various sides, that the road will not be easy and easy and because of you, it is, first of all, that I am speaking as a woman and as a colleague who has been through a "hot rabbit" many times, and I know what the public lynch means, that it is very good that we have good and quality explanations, to protect you, first of all, to hear that argument, that tomorrow someone who is putting themselves aside, pulls out of the pantry and says – no, Mrs Jankovic did not have an adequate "si-vi". As far as I'm concerned, only through dialogue, through reaching the value of tolerance, the right of civil society and society that is deprived of any kind of discrimination, we will be able to say that we live in a serious, stable and happy country. I have no problem with who will perform this function, it is important to me what this man and what that person does, what qualities he brings with him, whether he will have the strength to resist political or other influences, whether he will have enough integrity to defend one very, very delicate and very difficult function, what is the function of the trustee or trustee for equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29034	Thank you. The word is Mr Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29035	Dear Chairman, Ms Jankovic, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia who are following our discussion today, we are talking today about selecting the Commissioner of a very important state body. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is an independent body that is relatively new in the political and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The basic principle for which it is and the rule of law has been established. This institution is the fourth branch of government and what makes it special to other related institutions is that they care about law enforcement, about banning discrimination, i.e. The subject of the investigation is not only public authorities, but also natural and legal persons. Its specificity is with regard to the institution of the Protector of Citizens, the Commissioner for Free Access to Information and the Protection of Personality Data and the State Auditing Institution. The scope of the work of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is much more difficult and demanding than the activities of related regulatory institutions. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality was established in 2009, as an independent control body providing protection to persons whose rights are threatened by acts of discrimination. It is very important to point out that the Trustee is an independent state body, independent of the conduct of the tasks set out in the law. We need through us a society of full and effective equality, in which everyone enjoys equal human rights, as well as the known fact that after 60 years after the universal Declaration of Human Rights, we are still far from the principle. All human drinks are born free and equal in dignity and rights. As regards the election itself for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, it is important to point out that the candidate must also have high moral and professional qualities, in addition to the profession of a graduate lawyer with ten years of experience in legal affairs in the field of protection of human rights. The Commissioner cannot perform any other public or political function or professional activity in accordance with the Law by coming to this post. The Committee on Constitutional Rights of the Serbian Parliament is conducting discretionary interpretation of the work of the Commissioner. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is an independent state body specialising in the fight against all forms and aspects of discrimination. With him, he certainly has a professional service, which helps him to carry out his duties, and three assistants were hired in his organization. The trustee has two types of jurisdiction. First, action in cases of discrimination and prevention of discrimination. It's an extremely wide range of jurisdiction that this incoherent body has. In particular, the impact this institution has on the legislative process should be highlighted. Namely, the Commissioner has the authority to give opinions on all the laws and regulations concerning the prohibition of discrimination, which is, you will admit, a very powerful means in the political system and indeed a powerful influence on those who in extreme terms create and form themselves the text of laws or regulations. From what is said, it is clear that it is the trustee's job mainly to be the government's controller and to establish and institutionalise the rule of law, and it is obvious that public authorities appear most often as discriminatorys. After all that has been said, it is clear that the trustee is an extremely strong institution, but that for now it is sufficiently untapped. The trustee is independent enough, financially and structurally strong enough, but on the other hand, there is an apparent lack of understanding and ignorance by our citizens. If it follows the legal principles of international and domestic law, the law establishing this institution has a wide range of competences, a powerful public behind it and the support of civil society and citizens to continue a broad fight against discrimination in Serbia. The trustee is therefore a mechanism through which we hope that the Republic of Serbia will become a state limited by the rule of law. In the end, I can't finish this exhibit today without mentioning the person we're choosing today as a confidant, Belgrade graduate lawyer, Mrs. Branko Jankovic. According to a working biography that is truly brilliant, it is a candidate who has so far performed very responsible functions, so that citizens in it will recognize a single security based on which to build trust in this institution itself. The fight against all forms and forms of discrimination is a mission and purpose of the work of this institution. Discrimination in our society must not be tolerated, it must be reacted and sought protection. Any successfully completed case of discrimination will be a valuable contribution to the construction of a society where all its citizens and citizens have equal chances of having an equal, active and productive participation in all segments of social life. In the voting day, I will certainly support this proposal on selecting gender equality creditors, and otherwise I know Mrs Jankovic as a responsible and very educated person. She's been working in the field of social policy for a long time, and I wish her a lot of success in such a responsible function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29036	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29037	Thank you. As it is clear from the previous discussion, we have a problem here with the procedure and not for the first time and probably not for the last time in this Parliament's assembly. Not entering the personal qualities of a candidate's biography that I can only think of best because I am going with the assumption that people are good and that they are competent for the jobs they run for, however, it is not enough in the procedure that is common for selecting trustees to protect equality so that I can vote for the proposal. I think today's debate was another metaphor, another demonstration of what it looks like. You have been congratulated already on the election, and then the question is why is this Assembly, what is the cost of this electricity, to touch a little demagogy, why are we coming, why are travel expenses paid if everything is known, if there are 200 MPs who can vote on whether the globe is earth's square, cubed, or bearing elephants or something else here, absolutely pointless that there is one parliamentary procedure? Of course, this is not pointless, on the contrary, it is pointless to do this, and respect for procedures is primarily expected of those who have a majority, because most should show by example that they respect the procedure, that they respect rules, Rules of Procedure, laws, sublaws, the Constitution, that in their power and greatness they are not carried, but that there should be an example of how one should behave, how to create an atmosphere in a home called the highest political body in one country. It is certain that the candidate lady has the obvious qualities contained in her biography that we received today and there I would not doubt it absolutely, but the question is whether these qualities are sufficient for the Serbian Parliament to choose her as a confidant. It's certain that the biography is impressive, but there are probably other people who have such impressive biography and who could have been candidates. It's my grudge to the opposition colleagues from the parliamentary clubs who had the chance to propose, conditionally speaking, their candidates or candidates who they thought could be good competitors and didn't do it. Generally, it still does not give the majority the right to boast of what they say – we have our candidate, he will be elected regardless of what the minority thinks and we congratulate her in advance. It is precisely showing that there will be a lot of work for you when you are elected, that equality in Serbia is not dominantly present in parliament, let alone in life outside of this beautiful building. It speaks of our society and speaks of how weak institutions are. It speaks of the protection of equality, human and minority rights being more declarative than essential and institutional. So not one, but one whole team of protectors and citizens and information and equality must be mobilized so that at least some of these rights can be achieved with us. Of course it's not the job of protectors or those. It's a job of the Serbian democratic opposition and it has to do so in the next election, when they are, as soon as possible. This is the right way for institutions in Serbia to be seriously strong and effective. It's the right way to stop the boasting and bizarreness the current government gives us. There can't be any help from any protector. It's the work of the Serbian democratic opposition. On behalf of the New Party and on behalf of the new party, and I hope on behalf of other opposition colleagues, I promise the citizens of Serbia that we will do everything possible to make these important, significant changes, which will ensure freedom in Serbia, come as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29038	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after this last sentence, I've been livin' myself alive, but no problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've read all of this carefully and what matters to me, it's important that we say something to the outgoing trustee, and you certainly remember that I've had a big problem with the so-called. independent bodies and bodies and individuals who, according to me, have become kidneyed and have represented approximately the reserve composition of the party of the former regime. We remember these praises to a team called the so-called. independent bodies and regulatory bodies. We remember those applauses that the individuals got because of the alleged struggle for human rights. Here is the disputed experience of ten years of human rights dealing with the proposed trustee, and I suggest that he do everything the predecessor hasn't done in the future. So, anything Nevena Petrusic has not done, let the future trustee do, and everything Nevena Petrusic has done, do not do the future trustee. You certainly remember the protection of Aboriginal, which this country paid about $150,000. That's what the state auditor remembers. The state audit institution can also remember the 2013 report on the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, i.e. to protect vulnerable groups. The report also suggests that there have been irregularities listed by the former Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, who has received thunderous applause here from representatives of the former regime's party, who call themselves the opposition, although they rule with more than a quarter of the people and on more than a quarter of the territory, in Vojvodina. What our people say – they want the crow to squat on two stakes. So my advice is not to deal with the Aboriginals, but to deal with our citizens. The former trustee dealt with it. When that qualification of ten years of human rights is mentioned, let's see who's chosen and re-elected, so that we don't suffer criticism that we politically instructed the so-called. representatives of the so-called independent regulatory bodies and bodies. Let's see the sensitive 1990s and say whether it's human rights when someone is an expert associate in the government of Seselj-Milosevic. Is that a qualification? Protector of the citizens? I call it a protector. So, someone who was in the Government of Milosevic-Seselj certainly wasn't very concerned with human rights, but they set him up to have ten years of experience in the so-called so-called. Human rights. Here, I claim he was a high-ranking official in that government at the Department of Sports. I hope he didn't owe the shooting. There he was. If someone is sensitive to the 1990s and to human rights, then he should certainly criticise his choice and his proposal. Let's see what the Commissioner for Public Information is. Let's see that human rights practice and that kind of independence. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: How about a theme? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29040	Miss Jerkov, please don't throw away. Please, Mr. Ristichevich...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29041	Let's see that kind of trustee and see if it's true that in 2007, she was elected in that place, and we re-elected not to be accused of violating the continuity of such sacred organs, and this is not an ex-post mind, you certainly remember that I had this criticism in 2013 and 2014, and I have it now. Is it true that this trustee was the Minister of State and Local Self-Government? Is it true he was vice president of the assembly? Is it true he was an MP? Is it true he was at least in three parties? Well, what was this world of independence and that qualification of ten years of human rights, because for all three of these bodies or regulatory bodies there are the same standards that ten years of human rights? That's why I support that certainly a worse solution than Nevena Petrusic can't win and support the choice of a new trustee, but given the situation, and I want to say that the Gojkovic family has my voice whenever they want, given the state of human rights and those who take care of it, that I will seek protection from the villagers. This was about sensitive social groups. I only know one fellow who's not in that group of villagers who are threatened. I will seek the guardian of the villagers, given that we have been treated, as president of the People's Peasants' Party and I claim that the rural population, especially the peasants in the last 10, 12 years, have been rich since the 1990s, and especially since 2000 we have expected that our relationship with us, we are citizens of no other order, we are citizens of the last order, citizens of the harvest category. Since I've been told here by the Guardian that my rights are not of interest to him, that I'm the last one whose rights he would respect, I'm going to be looking for a protector of the villagers who should be involved in the protection of the rights and those citizens, not just the inhabitants. A citizen is a notion of a citizen, and he saw it as being the protector of only citizens, residents of the city, and the villagers and peasants left it to himself and there is no one to protect them. So, given that it's the most vulnerable group, I'm going to ask that we have that kind of protection. I will certainly support a proposal that must certainly, and if it wasn't for impressive biographies, I'd be better than the lady who defended Aboriginal rights and paid $150,000 to get $5,000 in Australia in ten days. So then it was said that I was wrong. However, the audit institution found that there were irregularities and I believe that the future Commissioner for the Protection of Equality will have no such kind of irregularities as the predecessor had. So she deserves it right. I also have to say, while I'm with the guardian of the villagers, or who I'm asking for, since the Guardian of Citizens doesn't do it, that he suddenly became dear, although all against the 1990s, such a face has become kind and dear, to some opposition parties, I've already cited which side are the opposition ones, but I have to say this. We all remember the murder of Curuvia. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you -- how did a BIA man who retired a few months ago, who worked in the Sixth Division with Romaic, be admitted to the Citizens' Protector as a counselor the next day? It's the one that finds him when his neighbor walks home, so he follows him, etc. How come we're sensitive to some events from the '90s, and we're not sensitive to the '90s personnel, who are now politically close to us, such as the Citizens' Protector? How come we didn't remember to check that he retired, his personal friend, who retired from the BIA today, accepted as his advisor, who is causing exceptional problems in communication between the authorities, those bodies he needs to control, and the Guardian himself, or the Protector of the Citizens? We have to have the same standards and I agree. I ask and demand the competent authorities in the Serbian Parliament to state all these checks, and I order the Gojkovic family to always have my vote if they need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29042	The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29043	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't need to tell you that I think that there was a need for you to react in the course of the speech of your colleague Risticevic, because I think...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29044	Every time you call me to react when someone is speaking from your MP group, I will respond to the other MPs in the same arches.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29045	It seems to me that you very carefully and very...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29046	Don't talk to me. Do you want to talk about the subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29047	Of course I do, so I answered my word and I have no intention of talking about the subject in a way that SNS MPs do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29048	Everyone has a right, first of all, this is not an SNS MP, but an MP from the SNS parliamentary group, president of the Peasant Party. Please talk about the subject. You got your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29049	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Of course, like the other speakers, like the other DS MPs, against our candidate, Mrs. Jankovic, we have nothing personal. First, at the very beginning, I would ask the Secretary General of the Assembly to pay attention to the material that is coming. We have again received material with Mrs Jankovic's phone number, with data that should not be distributed publicly, and this is not the first time that we have received material containing data that cannot be public.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29050	Please deliver that material to me when you've finished your speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29051	It's the material that's been distributed to the MPs, there's nothing I can deliver to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29052	Please deliver that copy to me when you've finished your speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29053	Are you saying that only in my copy stands the phone number?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29054	Please see if there are any other samples, deliver when you've finished your speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29055	It's kind of amazing this debate we're having right now. It's not the first time. We also share Mr. Dikovic's cell phone number, Mr. Bandic. These are all the data available outside of this congregation. Please pay attention to the way the materials look.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29056	The president of the assembly has to react. Please deliver that copy when you've finished your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29057	Mr. Becic, I have no intention of delivering the material that has been distributed to all the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29058	How do we know you're telling the truth? I didn't see that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29059	Look at the material the MPs received, and I have no intention of convincing myself with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29060	Okay, thanks. I'll ask another MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29061	In fact, we do not have anything personal against Mrs. Jankovic, just as the prime minister says our citizens are at least paid this year, but only formally. Our reasons why we will vote against your election are purely formal, and just as citizens feel how important this formality is, I think in your case it can be even more important. The reason is that, among other things, your job is to worry about the application of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Law enforcement is very important for countless reasons. One of them is just the protection of equality, one of them is the rule of law. The whole area of human rights is one of the things we can never say is that our job is done, in which we can never say that the target is achieved, and that's one of the things we usually call a moving target, because there's always more work to do, no matter how big a job it is done. Of course, I wouldn't agree if nothing in that field was done. On the contrary, it seems to me that a great shift has been made. What concerns us most, Mrs. Jankovic, in order for someone to be elected Commissioner, is that he must meet three conditions. Condition number one, he's a graduate lawyer. It's a condition that you meet, as we can see from your biography. Condition number three – to possess high moral and professional qualities. You really don't know anything about it, just before the MPs didn't get a chance to get acquainted with your biography to learn about your moral and professional qualities. But what we are most concerned about, which is why we will vote against your election, is the condition number two, which is that it has at least 10 years of experience in legal affairs in the field of protection of human rights. From your biography here we see that you worked as a marketing producer on TV "Politika", marketing director at the "Yu-info channel", TV director "Politika" from 2002 to 2003, "City University of Sheffield" - co-ordinator for the Republic of Serbia from 2004 to 2006, High School "Ruđer Bosković" with the home of students and OS "Ruđer Bosković" in Belgrade – Secretary of School, Teacher for the Object of the Constitution and Rights of Citizens, Teacher for the subject of education in the media from 2003 to 2006, Institution's Gerontological Centre Belgrade – Director from 2006 to 2012, the Ministry of Labour and Employment and Social Policy – State Secretary from 2012 to 2014, the Institution's Gerontology Centre Belgrade – Assistant Director from 2014 to this day to this day, or election at the place of the Trustees, which we heard from other colleagues, quite certain. When you were secretary of state at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, I don't know what exactly you were doing in that ministry for two years, but from this, all of which, even if you were in the field of protection of human rights at the time, I can see that you may have had two years of experience in the field of protection of human rights, or you don't have those two years of experience, because I really don't know what your job was, or what you were doing. That, I'm sorry, is a major obstacle for us to be able to support you for a choice for this important and responsible function. The second obstacle is that you have agreed to be elected, that you are actually being run by the Committee at a session of a committee that is not scheduled under the law, about which MPs are not informed in accordance with the law, and your job tomorrow will be to just protect the application of the law and make sure that this law is fully implemented. That you have the intention to protect this law, you should have said, to inform yourself and to know that the MPs, who were supposed to talk to you at the board's session, didn't know what would happen on the board's agenda, that they didn't get your biography, that they weren't informed about the session, that they heard from the press what the topic of the session was and that they were invited to a session ten minutes before the start of the board, which is not in accordance with the procedures and with the Rules of Procedure of our Assembly. As a result, it raises a lot of questions about your personal integrity and the moral qualities that the law speaks of. It seems suggested to us that you could act on your own function so that, from time to time, you could close your eyes and, from time to time, accept a few laws, because it is personal to you or politically. I must add, given that there are other conditions, for one non-partisan personality you have made quite a political advance since the moment this new coalition came to power, but it is only a personal observation, perhaps thanks to your professional qualities you have progressed. Of course, it is clear to you how trustees, protectors, pass by in this country, who decide to oppose those who are in power today. I don't know what you were doing in 1993. It doesn't say that in the biography, but sometimes things happen after 25 years, etc. Don't think you're protected in that sense. Since you agree to be selected in this way, we do not have an answer where in various jobs the directors of marketing and the school secretary sees exactly your engagement in the field of protection of human rights, and on the other hand we have some information in the material that we absolutely need, such as your private address and your private phone number. You can't convince us, because the Rules of Procedure is such that you can't talk to us today. If we knew about the committee session at least 15 minutes before it was scheduled, not 10 minutes, we'd probably come and talk to you. I ask you not to accept that in this way you are elected, and in any case, by the MPs of the Democratic Party, for this kind of choice in a situation in which you do not seem to meet formal conditions, or you cannot see from your biography that you are fulfilling them, the support of the Democratic Party, you will certainly not get.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29062	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. Before I give you my word, I must give an explanation since something that is not true has been said here. Miss Jerkov, as you know, on a website where information is published, a biography without personal data has been published, all in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. What you're showing, it's material that's been distributed to the MPs, so the biography, the chairman or president of the National Assembly is just one of the MPs, if he has the right to see these data delivered, has the right to other MPs. Everything that goes public in this room is in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and does not contain this information you're talking about. If you say that MPs should be denied the information received by the President of the National Assembly, I believe that is not the case and that you are mistaken. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Rakonjac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29063	Dear Chairman, you have injured the 27th and 107th leadership of the Assembly and 107th dignity of the National Assembly, in a very subtle and perfiduous manner you have allowed the previous speaker to address Mrs Branko Jankovic, with abuse of the Rules of Procedure that Mrs Branko Jankovic cannot respond. So we were present, and you are also aware that this is a classic mobing and mobbing and abuse of a position by the MP, according to the candidate. I ask you to take care of it and that these things are no longer repeated, because this really offends the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29064	Mrs. Rakonjac, I don't understand anything, that I've allowed something perfiduous, but in any case, do you want the Assembly to plead in the voting day? I didn't say you were perfiduous, I said you were a previous speaker. Miss Rakonjac, I understand what you're saying. You can't answer that again. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? A Vesna Rakonjac, from the city: Yes, I do. I thank you. You said I was perfiduous and not to use another word that you said, let the MP speak... I didn't say you were perfiduous, I said you were a previous speaker. Then you didn't make a good statement. I'm sorry. I'll take the stenogram, so I'll show you. Let me make a mistake. Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jeftic Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29065	The Honored Chairman, distinguished Mrs Branko Jankovic, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us today in the Assembly, a proposal to elect Commissioners for the Protection of Equality. For the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I must first say what is the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality? The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, respected citizens of Serbia, is an independent and specific state body operating in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which operates in accordance with the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, which was adopted in 2009 and which operates in accordance with international documents that are part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the basic objectives and basic tasks of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality are, above all, preventing all forms of discrimination, protecting equality and protecting equality and legal and natural persons, then monitoring the implementation of the law, but also proposing some legislation that will certainly have an impact on the improvement of the law, or even better to regulate certain laws that they are anti-discrimination laws. The concept of human rights and freedom is a broad term. How much human rights are achieved, that is, to the extent that they are protected, in fact, the democracy and maturity of every society are recognised. The Republic of Serbia, on the path of European integration, intends to fully ensure full human rights and freedoms for all its citizens and citizens. The formation of this body which was otherwise formed in 2010 for the first time certainly is one of the mechanisms in which citizens can further protect their rights which are threatened by discrimination. What I want, however, for you, Mrs Brankica Jankovic, is that, apart from the basic jurisdiction, put a great accent in your work on preventive activities, to raise the awareness of all of us and all citizens that discrimination is not allowed, because only in such a way, through the campaign that discrimination is not allowed, we will show an even greater democratic maturity of our society. What I want to point out, and as far as your work biography is concerned, of course, that as far as your educational status is concerned, it is absolutely, it is the most academic calling, you have completed the Law School, now as I have seen, you are in doctoral studies, at the Faculty of Security in Belgrade, but what I must stress is that you are in one period of your work activities and how you have been in direct contact with our citizens, where the most common injury to their fundamental human rights occurs. This was the time when you were in the social protection system, because everyone knows that in the social protection system, the largest number of most vulnerable and most vulnerable people are being exposed to discrimination. Thanks to your great effort and great work to protect the very most endangered citizens in the Republic of Serbia, you are by the Association of Professional Workers of Social Protection in 2014 the first Republic award for a special contribution to the protection of the socially endangered population. What I especially want to point out is that you've made a huge effort, a huge amount of knowledge, and sometimes your enthusiasm to understand, help and support another vulnerable social group, which is Roma. In gratitude for your involvement and for your tremendous effort to improve the quality of life of the Roma population, the Roma Council has awarded you a "golden point". I would also like to point out that in your work as Secretary of State in Social Security when you arrived, you took a huge step forward from that authority you inherited, compared to the previous regime whose backbone was DS. In 2011, the previous regime passed the Social Protection Act. This Social Protection Act, of course, as well as any other law, is hardly applicable unless a sublegal act has been adopted. In this Social Protection Act, more than 40 sublegal acts were not passed until 2012, so that the law could not be implemented in the most part. With your arrival as State Secretary, the largest number of these laws, i.e. sublegal acts, saw the light of the day, but the Social Protection Act was adopted in 2011. There's another major problem with another law that concerns a highly sensitive group, which is primarily a group of children and it's family law. Family law was passed in 2005. Many sublegal acts, and especially sublegal acts concerning custody protection, and custody protection is currently tanging and is just focused on minors, persons in business incompetent, these sublegal acts have not been brought in. What I'm saying is that in 2012, you and these sublegal acts passed on to that law that existed for seven years, and that the previous regime had no idea that a law in the full range of things couldn't work without sublegal acts. Also, I want to point out your involvement when it comes to the protection of women from domestic violence and the protection of women in fact in partner violence at all, the protection of children also in domestic violence and during the time you were State Secretary, you have launched an initiative which, of course, can continue to be interesting, whether or not I don't know, but mainly, you stepped forward and made a major step forward by predicting protocols on the co-operation of all institutions and centres for social work and the Ministry of the Interior and the local self-government and the judiciary, to work together on this problem that certainly is a major problem today. I wish you happy work if you are chosen. I know that there will be a lot of obstacles and a lot of difficulties, because this is both hard work and hard work, but what I certainly don't doubt is that you will do your job in the best way, and in the interests of the citizens who will address you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29066	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29067	Dear President, dear colleagues, our proposal for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and Biography of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality has obviously made a real interference today at this assembly session, as it is obvious that both are indisputable. This impressive biography of Mrs Jankovic is inconceivable, which truly deserves attention and respect in every segment. One of the first speakers detached from this biography something called the school secretary and what is called computer skills, which are small cubes in the mosaic of what Mrs. Jankovic has done for this past working century and doing. I'm surprised they didn't notice he knew, say, sign language. I'd like to know how many more people here in this room can boast of that knowledge of sign language. Not to talk about all the activities and functions she has performed in various functions of protectors against the rights of the old and the threatened, to the rights of children and women. Indeed, when I first saw this biography, and I saw it as I suppose most of the MPs 20 days ago when we received and called for this session and in it the agenda and biography of Mrs Jankovic, so I'm surprised that the gentlemen of the committees didn't see it at least in that part when it was delivered to all MPs, I thought it was a significantly older person, because it really took a huge effort and effort to do so much in your career for such a short time. Since the previous regime had brilliant insights to protect and favour its staff with those famous solutions in competitions, when you can read that someone to place in the post of chief or director had to meet the condition of three, five or seven years of work experience at the executive post, so there was only a photo of that man to be put in place. This is where even this 10-year-old human rights experience has fallen, since it is obvious that this protection factor of 10 years of working experience on their criteria, this time it will not be able to protect one of their potential candidates. As it has been so far, I will point out to you in a few examples, because very often in front of my office I meet people who have complained from the previous period that they have not respected human rights, i.e., I felt particularly about the rights of children. So let's say you have examples that some of the social work centres in Serbia when a child is in the process of telling anyone that he doesn't want to talk on any subject, not on the subject of father, not on the subject of mother, then acting as a worker in one of the social work centres is informed by one of the parents, and then the other parent steals a child and takes the child by force to make a statement of any kind, and the protector of equality has not found it appropriate to react in such a situation, I don't think he gives the right to criticise anything that has not yet been seen as being in the process. Furthermore, you have had a situation where insured patients and those paying insurance receive an answer from a health care institution that does not recognise their need, or does not recognise their operation by the number of operations during one day in a health care institution or does not recognise the need to treat it and that institution or does not recognise the need to give it and that medicine, which is an advanced right to fair and correct treatment, because someone has predetermined how much money it takes to determine for which needs to treat patients. Since priority must be given in what is mandatory for treatment, which is primarily curative and urgent interventions, I think in that part patients who needed this type of treatment were denied and were not equal with those other patients. You will often hear in front of the office -- how my neighbor can go to the spa two or three times, and I have to pay for my medicine or I have to pay for my surgery. I really don't think there's been enough attention to what's called protecting the equality of all citizens, especially children and the poor. Women and grown men already manage. They are not as vulnerable a category as children and poor, so I ask you to pay more attention to those categories in your work than to those called men and women. Of course, we both need to protect each other and the third and the fifth, but I really think that those who are the weakest link in the self-protection system should get the most attention from you and from all of us who deal with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29068	Thank you, Mr. Radojevic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go, Mrs. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29069	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the ongoing debate on committees today, I must remind myself that the democracy, development and stability of a country is valued among other things and by the development of the legal system, its application in practice, the development of institutions that apply and protect the legal system and the protection of the rights and freedom of citizens. In previous years, our country has taken significant steps to build a legal system and democratisation by introducing independent state bodies that protect and enable citizens' rights and control the work of the security and protection bodies of the rights and freedoms of citizens from the areas they cover. First, the Law on free access to information of public importance, adopted in 2004, and later the 2008 Personal Data Protection Act, established the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. Secondly, the 2005 Citizens' Protector Act, and on the basis of Article 138. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Citizens' Protector, was established. Third, the 2009 Anti-discrimination Act introduced the Institute of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality. Those authorities are independent in their work, but submit annual reports to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This year too, reports on work in 2014 were sent to the National Assembly on time and already discussed at committee meetings. I'll talk about them and their work on the tide when they're on the agenda. But the discussion on the board concludes that most of the MPs of the ruling majority, or are not familiar with the laws that I have cited and with the powers of the authorities that I have cited, or do not understand this matter, or with the position of dissuasion and the haughtiness of the authorities will not respect them. It is a shame that some representatives of the ruling coalition are false. I support my colleague, Janko Veselinović, because I was in the office next to him when he received a text message about an appointment of the board's session, without having received a written invitation with the material before. In everything, I agree with the presentation of my colleague Gordana Komic, so I will not repeat what she said during her presentation. Thus, in this procedure, the election of the Commissioners for the Protection of Equality was subject to the procedure prescribed by the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Failures have been made in the way of a committee meeting, in the lack of material for discussion of board members, in the notification of candidates, etc. The question arises - how did journalists know before the Committee members for the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives? Is this a continuation of the government's practices, the ruling majority as they have so far announced through the media arrests before the proceedings were initiated and so on? Disrespect of procedures destroys the legal system. Our country's legal system collapses by disrespecting this procedure. The credibility of state institutions is also collapsing, and so is the whole of our country. In this case, especially as it is a violation of the procedure prescribed for the work of the National Assembly and its committees, as the National Assembly is the highest legislative body that makes up representatives elected by all citizens of Serbia. The procedure for selecting the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality has also been violated. I do not want to discuss the person of the proposed candidate, nor do I dispute the quality of Mrs. Brankica Jankovic. Just to protect the candidate's reputation, it was necessary to comply with the procedure. I ask the question - how can it be expected that Mrs Brankica Jankovic, as the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, achieves good results in the work, which is very difficult and very large, when the ruling majority violates credibility already in the election? Or might it help her in the work of hacks through media, direct pressures, and even threats, as so far has been done to prevent the functioning of the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality? I repeat once again that I am not going to evaluate and speak about candidate credibility and qualifications to do the work of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Disrespect for the procedure and the violent behaviour of the majority in interpreting the procedure, violating the rules, lack of dialogue, including with the civil sector and other interested entities, is sufficient reason for the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic, the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia not to vote in favour of selecting the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29070	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29071	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was convinced that we would be having a debate here today. I think dialogue is one of the pillars of democracy, to listen and be heard. However, these empty benches across the street, with the honor of colleagues and colleagues who have stayed until the end, show how much this topic is and how much choice the Trustee for equality and consumption of the Law itself on the prohibition of discrimination is important to some political actors, as far as they are concerned, but only form. I have a memo number 118-939/15 in my hand since 7 April 2015. That memo was signed by you, Madam President. The letter states: “Respected, I would like to inform you that the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, Dr Neveni Petrusic, stands out on 5 May 2015, on which she was elected on 5 May 2010, ending her post in accordance with Article 30(1). The law prohibiting discrimination. Article 30, Article 8. The law prohibiting discrimination has been established that the National Assembly is electing a new president within three months of the end of the term of office of the Commissioner. In view of Article 28(3), The law prohibiting discrimination established that each parliamentary group in the National Assembly has the right to propose to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives a candidate for the Trustee, please do so within 15 days of the date of receipt of this letter. “ We took this memo seriously. We took this memo seriously because of the topic, not only because of the choice of the Commissioner, or the Commissioner, but because of the work that she was entrusted with. Therefore, on 28 April 2015, a letter was sent to the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, Mr Martinovic, which was signed by all the heads of the parliamentary groups supporting the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was proposed by candidate Mrs Branko Jankovic. Why are we here today telling someone who doesn't deserve it? What is it today that the Messengers who had the right to propose, so that we may face attitudes, so that we may face biographies, so that we may face what they did and how they did and chose the best that they did not use? But not only are they not using now, to say – so you have a majority, you will choose who you want, so you did not do it in 2010. So in 2010, when you had all the power, when Boris Tadic was both the president of the state and the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister and the MP and the president of the Parliament and the mayor, the man gang, everything, and even then you broke. The procedure, you know, gentlemen, which you are so critical of right now, do you know, gentlemen, that by the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, which, by the way, you adopted with most of the 127 MPs, 127, I don't remember that much of it, was larger, barely muscle. Right under the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, the Commissioner was scheduled to be elected by 1 March 2010. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when Mrs Petrusic was elected? On May 5th, 2010. What were you waiting for for for two months and five days? With all due respect, with all due respect, you didn't care about the trustee, you didn't care if some categories of our society were at risk. You've been doing more privatizing. You were more of a shoplifter. You've done more tycoons, how to make them as rich as possible. You've done more to keep people in Serbia out of work than to protect their rights. Now someone's resigning here. God, an offended bride, didn't know about the candidate. And what did we know in 2010, two months and five days, out of the law, out of deadline? Is that when someone resigned? Did someone then speak negatively of Mrs Petrusic in this National Assembly? Then comes that April of the month. Then comes that April of the month, ladies and gentlemen, so the decision to elect the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is put in session from 5 May 2010, and that, ladies and gentlemen, here is the agenda, on the 7th page. Importantly, the decision to elect the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is 90th, since 94th of the proposed point. 90th place, along with the Beer Act. Wonderful. I'd like those who resign to me to make a parallel and what's the same. So we have the Law to protect the population from exposure to tobacco smoke, along with the choice of trustee, so we have the Weatherology Act, these are your builders. Well, the mayors and the choice of trustee to protect equality. So much for respecting the procedures themselves and respecting the subject covered by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Let's move on. This is a stenogram. This is a stenogram from the session that discussed Mrs Petrusic's election, and the chairman says, quotes: "In accordance with Article 163(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs want a word? No, I don't. “ They had nothing to say. So much for the importance of the subject. The proposer had nothing to say about the candidate. Brooke. Let's move on. Many MPs, of course, took part in the debate. I draw the opinion of the then vice-president of the National Assembly and co-worker from LDP, Mrs Judite Popovic, who says, namely, when proposals for creditors arrived in the assembly, one of the candidates had all possible references to be elected. It's about the gentleman, I don't want to take the names and last names of people who aren't candidates right now and I don't want anyone to feel uncomfortable, like he felt five years ago uncomfortable, who had completed a law school, an internship of 10 years in human rights jobs, and he had all the moral and professional qualities and qualifications, and he had the support of 211 NGOs, along with the Coalition against Discrimination, etc. Was that man chosen then? It's not. Did you care about the opinion of NGOs? It's not. So what haughtiness are you talking about here? What auto projection are you talking about here? What were you doing back then? So you didn't care about the opinion of 211 NGOs who supported someone else. So you talk here about the strength of the majority and the haughtiness of the majority? Well, you can only talk about some history of parliamentaryism, some auto-projection, everything you've done and how you've done. But look at some side of that stenogram, where the SNS didn't take part in the work. We did not speak because we agreed with a respected colleague then deputy head of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Mr. Markicevic, and now our colleague here. I quote fellow Markevic: "Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, who, I believe, are watching this transfer, the New Serbia MP club on the proposal to elect the Trustor for the Protection of Equality," so none of the New Serbia MPs had the intention to report, aware of the reality that the proposal that the ruling coalition, in this case, passes safely and is now a key part of the sentence, "not wanting Professor Neveni Petrusic in any way at the beginning to trip hands and legs for the importance of the work with which she should be dealt with and carried out". So we didn't want to discuss it. It's a relationship between responsible people, people who give an opportunity to choose candidates, who give an opportunity, so we'll talk about Mrs. Jankovic when she comes here with work reports, with what she's done and how she's promoted what she's been entrusted with, and not with tripping hands and legs that you haven't had. You didn't have SNS, you didn't have our coalition partners, some of them were your partners. What are you doing? What understanding are you talking about? It's about simple and ordinary politics. What can you boast about? He's not the only one to protect equality. A lot of those who ran for protectors, what did they do? I can speak with special pleasure about the human resources of the NGO sector. I can say that the Committee, which I chaired and chaired and today for DRI 2012, gave more consent to 96 perpetrators, for the Fiscal Council 30, Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection – 17, Citizens' Protector – 101, Republic Commission for Public Procurement Procedures – 15, Energy Agency – one, Competition Protection Commission – Two, Anti-Corruption Agency – 184, of which I am building, 166 were only for elections, during the elections, as election exercise controllers, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality – 29. What kind of personnel structure were those institutions before? What conditions have they been working on? Did you hear Mr. Shabic's cries in the rooms he worked in? Where was he? They weren't allowed to go to the bathroom because the empty chair meant – almost for that day. Now look at the conditions under which he works. We want to get the report. When were the reports adopted at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? We are the Protector of the citizens in the judicial system, i.e. in our system, in 2007. Is 2008 chosen for the first time, and in 2013, the second time? Why is it only in 2013? Why only with the change of government in Serbia did the first report by the Citizens' Protectors experience the debate and vote on it in the National Assembly? And now those who say they want to be protectors of the Guardians, or patrons of the Trustees, at the time, not only did they not vote on the reports, not only did they not put them as agenda points in the National Assembly, but they sent messages, clear messages, and I quote Mr. Jankovic's words, and Mr. Sutanovac said to him: "Do you think you're the real Protector of the Citizens, so we chose you? “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Then what understanding of the former regime, in any aggregate state, is there about all these people and all these institutions? A message in one sentence, in one sentence of DS and Dragan Šutanovac, do you think that you are the right ones, so we chose you? Mrs. Jankovic, I think you're right and if we choose you. You're right as long as you're doing your job, you're right as long as you have a reference like this. Politicization, and I'm going to end it, no one in this room, until just now, has said, when Bojan Pajtic says, would like to see one of the independent bodies as a member of the DS. Is that right, is that right, who politicizes then independent regulatory bodies? Bojan Pajtic, DS or SNS? By adopting the report, by adopting all those requirements of the Protector of Citizens, and 91%, I will remind you, all suggestions of the Protector of the citizens of the state authorities have been corrected, 91%. Then who doesn't understand and who understands? Who respects and who disrespects? One who, in political blindness, sits in his chair that he doesn't deserve in the Banovina building in Novi Sad, drags everyone and everyone into the political arena, instead of dragging himself into elections first, and then, probably some authorities dealing with investigations and judicial authorities. Because of everything he's done and what he hasn't done. Who politicizes independent state bodies? Bojan Pajtic thus, Borko Stefanovic, when he says he would like to see someone on his team. Who doesn't understand? And we got a lecture here, a lecture about how we don't understand, we don't know, but do you know which one you missed for two months? Do you know those who ignored 212 NGOs and all those people who deal with the protection of human rights? Do you know which years you have failed to do, organize a safe walk in Belgrade? One, you failed to organize a walk safely, you failed to provide, and you are now talking about understanding or not understanding. Mrs. Jankovic, we will talk more about your work at the moment you arrive at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the first reports. I appeal to you, as I have appealed to other independent states, do not make your own flat-rate reports, make comparisons, because someone who comes tomorrow after you will compare their work and their results to you. That's good. I wish you good luck in your work. A Serbian Progressive Party, as my colleagues said, as distinguished counterpart Martinovic said, will be in full capacity tomorrow in voting day and will give you support. We'll also give you support in your independent work. You've got a big job to do. Although I agree with my colleague and friend, Mr Martinovic, that no one in Serbia is at risk, but it can always do better. Now, that can be better, it'll be your job and I'm giving you support and I want personal happiness in work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29072	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, respected Mrs. Jankovic, I believe that the members of 106 and 107 have been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I consider the Presidents respected that Mr Babic, with his speech, did not now contribute to your holding the session properly and holding order at the session. Let me explain that. Mr Babic first used an unambiguous term to describe the debate of opposition MPs here today, on this topic when he said that the opposition had used this point to "talk" someone, Mrs Gojkovic. I, of course, have here a Dictionary of Serbian Language, Mrs Gojkovic, the Mother of Serbians from Novi Sad, where we have said "speak". Watch what that means, Mrs. Gojkovic. He says -- rip, rip, cut on the cherries. Dear gentlemen, figuratively if it would be taken - to separate. Be careful how, violently on a continent. Mrs Gojkovic, I believe it was your obligation to warn if anything else, Mr Babic, that this term cannot be used to describe participation in the debate of any MP today. The second thing, respected gentlemen and Mrs Gojkovic, as a broken Rules of Procedure, here Mr Babic stated that the MPs who discussed today failed to exercise their right to propose another candidate for the Commissioner. I have been discussing the Rules of Procedure today, Mrs Gojkovic, because I am not a member of any parliamentary group, I had no right to propose a candidate. It was your duty to tell Mr. Babic that we here should cultivate a network of formalised, not private relations, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29074	No comment. You want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. Is anyone answering by article 96? Rules of Procedure? The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29075	Thank you, Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have three, four minutes left, right? Here, at the end of today, I'd like to repeat one more review of our parliamentary club. Therefore, the procedure for selecting the Commissioners, i.e. in this case the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, was implemented past the Rules of Procedure, which essentially affected the quality of the elections and essentially affected the reputation of the institutions of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's all my colleague, Biljana Hasanovic, said, that in this way everything that we did in the previous period was dissuaded in the construction of these institutions. Building independent institutions is not an easy process and certainly there were problems. Here, one of his colleagues said that two months had been late with the election when that institution was established. It's possible, but it didn't happen that it didn't know who the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality was at the time. This is a weak institution. Disturbingly weak institutions. Concerningly weak institutions that should safeguard constitutional order, the protection of equality and the constitutional principle that is today, I would say one serious way to hurt the speech of the authorised representative today, who, by the Constitution and the law, spoke of one, would say to the group which is subject to the interest and protection of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, who spoke of the fact that they should be deprived of their rights. The truth was later justified and said it was his personal attitude. However, the president of his party does not think so because he has received representatives of the civil sector in the previous days. One apology, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's right, you gave me an answer to my request to repeat the procedure. True, you referred me to that response to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law when I asked you to do something about it. However, the Committee did not do anything about it. I can only regret to conclude that today we have attended the humiliation of an institution that is disturbing to the citizens of Serbia, because one institution that should protect, its rights, has been chosen in a way that opposes the Rules of Procedure. Of course, we have heard these stories and discussions today about the metrics that have in some way challenged the candidate for the trustee, saying that he does not essentially have two years of employment which are from the area of protection of the right to protection of minority rights. I didn't go into that part in my discussion today, but I read part of the letter, 200 NGOs who challenged this choice. I therefore propose to MPs of the National Assembly, MPs of the ruling coalition who have all the power not to support this proposal, or still authorised representative, to withdraw this proposal before the vote, to enter into a procedure that would be fully in line with the Rules of Procedure, with the Constitution, but I would say, first of all, in line with the protection of independent institutions that are there to protect vulnerable citizens' rights under the law and the Constitution. So, I call on MPs to go beyond their party disciplines, respecting the Constitution and the laws, so that they do not bring down institutions and not have tomorrow's EU suggestions to work, we degrade institutions that are important for the functioning of the democratic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29076	First, let's see, the representatives of the parliamentary groups, to give power in the end, so that I can ask if the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No one wants) The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29077	Thank you, Madam President. I can only repeat what I said today. We have heard a lot today from Mr. Janko Veselinović and the former regime's MPs, and the only thing I haven't heard, which member of the Rules of Procedure has been particularly injured when the procedure for running Ms. Branko Jankovic's office as trustees for the protection of equality has been implemented. The Constitution has been violated, and the law has been broken, and the Rules of Procedure have been broken, and I cannot hear which member of the Rules of Procedure I have injured as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives? I've been well quoted to you from the former regime by a member of 203 who I've implemented to the end, including the position of the 3rd member of 203, for which I may not have been obliged to implement it, but I have implemented it. So, I invited Mrs Jankovic to come to the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, and there you are all and who are members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and you who are not members of the Committee, were able to ask all possible and impossible questions to Mrs Branko Jankovic, about her education, professional career, about whether she meets the conditions for choosing to be a trustee, about everything you are interested in. Mrs. Brank was at the board meeting, you haven't asked any questions. It is not true that you did not know who was the candidate of the parliamentary groups supporting the government of the Republic of Serbia. You knew, you knew it was Mrs. Brankica Jankovic, and if you wanted to inform yourself, you could have been from the president of the National Assembly to get a biography of Mrs. Brankica Jankovic. As for the election of the previous Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Ms. Nevenka Petrusic, I don't really want to say a word about this lady, there's no need, because she's no longer a Trustee. Just to remind you, these days, the press is being run against the SNS and the SNS parliamentary group, round tables are being organised and NGOs of a different type are having a debate on whether an emergency procedure is democratic or non-democratic, why laws are being adopted by emergency procedure? Mr. Vesenovicu, Nevenka Petrusic was elected on 5 May 2010 at a session with 95 points of the agenda and was chosen by an emergency procedure. I speak almost all day today, my colleagues and I from the SNS Parliamentary Group, when you were in power, the chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, when he was supposed to say a word about the candidate, Mrs Nevenka Petrusic, did not say a single word, which our people would say, you just "mangled" it like that, to say, here we chose the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. You did not read his reports, nor did you adopt him, nor did you take care of anything Mrs Nevenka Petrusic suggested that you should do based on the recommendations she gave you. By contrast, Mrs Brankica Jankovic in her work so far, there was also no confusion, she respected almost all the recommendations made by Ms Nevenka Petrusic, a recommendation under regular number 4, 13 and a recommendation under regular 14. So all the recommendations she could make until she came to the post of Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, while doing important social and responsible jobs in her biography. All you've been saying today is a political demagogy of a fairly cheap type, and you've taken that political path, and I doubt you'll get very far. Unlike you, the SNS has shown responsibility when it comes to selecting trustees to protect equality. We had the courage and courage to invite all MP groups to give their candidates. The fact that you haven't used your right, that's your business. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is, respecting Article 203. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to the National Assembly Mrs. Branko Jankovic for the Trustee for the Protection of Equality and her biography clearly shows that a woman has more than 12 years of working experience in human rights protection affairs, as a graduate lawyer, meets all the legal requirements. And in order not to repeat the same thing again, I call on all MPs in the National Assembly, including you, Mr. Veseinovic, because at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs you did not vote against Branko Jankovic, to vote for Mrs. Jankovic in the voting day, because at this moment she is not only, but I think, the best possible candidate for this responsible and important state function. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-26-0.u29078	Thank you. There's no replica, on what? (Janko Veselinović, from the place: So he asked me nicely... He didn't ask you, but he found out through his discussion, you didn't tell me, you didn't tell me, he didn't reopen that all previous speakers answered, I really don't understand. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: The Rules of Procedure allow you to... You want to blackmail me? I don't understand. There's a possibility, I don't see anyone recognized her, and if anyone recognized her, I'll do it to the MPs, if he recognized the replica. I really don't understand. There's no basis for replication, you've confused me completely, I can take anything, but someone's looking for a replica because somebody's saying something rhetorical, he's talking in his own way, he hasn't asked for an answer. Did you ask for an answer from the MPs, and I didn't recognize it? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. It's not. On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
