ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25061	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Žika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25062	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of my fellow Members, I would take the opportunity to ask two questions. My first question is about restitution and I'm asking it to the Department of Justice, what happened to the amendments to the Restitution Act proposed by the Working Group that were made up of people from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Agency for Restitution? In fact, it is about the amendments to the laws concerning the subject of substitution, and this topic is about the subject of substitution, especially when the issue of agricultural land being sought because it is, I say, 95% of the almost total property that our country's citizens are looking for when it comes to return of property. These 95% of course include forests and pastures. I would remind only that the Serbian Renewal Movement and Dr Vladan Batic with his Democratic Party have on several occasions proposed amendments to the bill especially when the issue of substitutions is the biggest problem for this law to be implemented and to correct a major injustice that is unfortunately still an unfinished story. By amending the laws proposed by this task force, and at least by the information we have this government would have the opportunity to correct one of the greatest injustices that is in history, let me say, our country. So we have the fact that we have a working group proposal, we have at least 220,000 hectares of land in state property, and less than 100,000 hectares are sought, and that's where the church property counts. We also have this fact that returned assets with the help of the substitution would also mean higher revenues for the state, and amendments to the law would allow the state to manage more effectively agricultural land that does not return to its very restitution. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, citizens' trust in the state would be restored, as well as the trust of potential foreign investors, because in this way the state would finally define what its assets are and finally break up with, let me say, a single asset status that is still unknown and, of course, when foreign investors come to our country that they have doubts about whether one day in the restitution of that property will be returned as it has been done in all normal countries, i.e. Let me say in post-communist countries, in Europe. When I talk about it, the information less familiar to the public is that there is also the European Parliament's last recommendation in March 2015 that it is more than useful to make changes to the law so that this law is not implemented as they have done, to say the countries in the environment but also countries that have long thrown away the communist heritage which unfortunately is not yet the case with Serbia. In addition to all this information and so much obvious, let me say, the theme when it comes to substitutions, it's more than clear that there's a brake somewhere. All those who expect a fair return of property believe that the brake is the highest in the Ministry of Agriculture. So I would ask one question, really in the desire that, not to point a finger at someone, but to want to open this topic in the right way and, of course, it finally ended up the right way. So my inquiry to the Ministry of Agriculture is, then why is the Ministry of Agriculture so resistant to the return of land and whose interest it is, given that the vast number and huge plots of land are purchased by just those tycoons who are either ahead, or are in front of justice, or are they going to have to show the citizens of Serbia what it is and how they acquired the capital they have today? Unfortunately, we do, we believe that they have acquired that capital and are increasing it precisely through agricultural land that should be the subject of restitution, and unfortunately it is not yet. My second question would be to ask the Department of Industry and it concerns the battery factory in Sombor. It was one of the companies that was not only the pride of Somboro and the Western-Baba district, but also the pride of Serbia as it exported almost 80% of its product abroad during the most difficult times. What's going on? Of course, one of the largest tycoons appears, Bogicevic, buying, buying, buying, buying a healthy company. Because of her enormous duties, this company stops working, it blocks her account...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25063	Time's over, please. Thirty seconds have passed. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25064	My question is what kind of epilogue is going to be when it comes to the Somboro battery factory because this is an unsustainable state and unfortunately, it's a very high-quality company that doesn't work today?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25065	Thank you. You've been talking for a minute. I ask all MPs to stick to the time so we can plan the session, don't let me interrupt all the time but just a little bit. The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25066	I thank the president. I have a question for the Minister of Health, Zlatibor Lonchar. In fact, Serbia is the first country in Europe at a cancer mortality rate, and annually this rate is growing at an average of 2.5%. According to data provided by the Batut Institute, 159,264 people were ill in Serbia from 2001 to 2005. From 2005 to 2010, as many as 174,426 Serbian citizens. Information from 2010 to 2015 is being prepared, will be published at the end of the year or early 2016, but unfortunately the rate of cancer deaths will be even higher. A large number of Serbian citizens therefore use cannabis oil for treatment. Issuing huge sums of money and sums to buy that oil. Oil is often of suspicious quality, it works all over the black market, which is why my question to the Ministry of Health, above all Minister Zlatibor Loncar, is whether the ministry is thinking in due time about amending the Law on Psychoactive and Controlled Substances, which would allow the use of cannabis in Serbia's health system. Also, I think we need one expert analysis on this issue because one part of the profession is against it and the other one is for it. I also have information that the vice president of the Association of Legalisation of Serbia and the director of the St. Sava Special Hospital have submitted an official request to the health ministry on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25067	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my questions concern the government and the competent authorities on the issue of "Energo Zelena". Namely, “Green” based in Belgium founded “Energo Green” in Indjija, built the office for the processing of slaughterhouse waste and confiscats. Since they were played by the former regime's party, the "Energo Zelena" now owned by Belgians has filed a reparations claim against the Serbian state because the previous government, the former regime, has deceived them of 100m euros. My question to the government is is is it true that there are corrupt elements throughout the project, since it was attended by former civil servants Nebojsa Misic, from the Veterinary Authority Mr. Mićovic, Mr. Roth, and that some of them were own-owned in Green who built the “Energo Zelena” with 50% ownership without investing anything, but they justified that they would allow the rapid passing of permits from the government and local self-government in India? In doing so, they pledged to have 150,000 tonnes of slaughterhouse waste and to be one 150,000-ton factory, but that the total amount of confiscats on Serbia's territory is 250,000, so they can build another such factory that there are 150,000 tonnes. However, it turned out that they were deceived, that these quantities of slaughterhouse waste were not and that foreign investors, this time the Belgians, were deluded by a document issued by the Ministry of Veteran of the Ministry of Agriculture, the then-Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Belgians have filed a damage claim per 100m euros and the Committee on Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the moment do everything to avoid that kind of compensation request, but the question to the government is this: was there any criminal activity because former civil servants had been installed in the company with 50% and from the Belgians later, for the percentage, for which they had not invested, 700,000 euros. Afterwards, they took for the field, agricultural land, 3.5 hectares worth 30,000 euros in the Indji municipality's territory. They took them for communal equipment, I say, because I think there was some criminal stuff. They took 850,000 euros for a 3.5 hectare plot that didn't even cost 50,000. They took 550,000 for municipal equipment, although the area was equipped by the state for the Ministry of Finance because it bordered with a regional dump. In all, they took two million and 150,000 euros from the Belgians before they buried the aces. Of this, 700,000 went to the alleged fictitious co-ownership of former state officials, who had installed themselves in the company by allowing the state and state to obtain permission as soon as possible on behalf of the state and through the state. The result of this criminal activity is, I have already said, a damage claim of 100,000m euros, the loss of 40 jobs, since Energy Green closed its plant in India, as there is not enough slaughterhouse waste. Not only did she close down, but 40 people lost their jobs, but she also filed a damage claim against the 100,000m-euro state of Serbia and at the moment the government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management are all making them avoid that payment. The second question relates to the cooperative property, where all the cooperative assets are committed, let it end up in social, never returned to the cooperatives of the legal followers, and in particular – where the property which was returned to the cooperatives under the Cooperatives Act is missing. 95th and 96th because she became the prey of a local tycoon. In particular, my question concerns the land of the U.Z....
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25069	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25070	Let me just finish my sentence. ... and on land owned by an Earth cooperative in Novi Karlovci that was sold for free and which had disappeared in a criminal manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25071	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25072	Thank you, Your Honor. I would ask Minister Sertic a question, i.e. a request to deliver to me, as a national MP, and to all MPs a contract signed by the state of Serbia with the company "HPK Engineering", which, as we have seen from the media reports, should take over the management of Jelizar Smederevo for the next three years. It was announced that the contract would be public, that it would be seen what obligations are under the new management, which are their investments, guarantees, that the plan they presented in the tender for the right to manage Jelizar, which are guarantees that the plan will be implemented and that the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, relating to the compensations of the manager team, which originally, as far as I understand it, should make 12 people, and then we see in some reports that it is about 25 people. All these things leave a lot of room for questions and speculation about the state of Jelizara, what is the future of this important factory for the Republic of Serbia. Among other things, when Plan A failed, and he was presented as safe, so at the end of last year, the prime minister here announced a great celebration by 31 January of this year, when we finished our work with "Esmark", then we moved to plan B, which in the meantime became better than Plan A, and in the promotion of this plan, B and Prime Minister and Minister and many colleagues here said that due to the successful work of the old management, management by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, supplies of goods and raw materials in Jelizara Smederevo amounted to $170.000,000. When this contract was signed, we heard that those supplies were actually $90 million. Now I'm curious – where did $80 million go in stock? Was it just a story, propaganda or not? What exactly were the supplies at the moment the HPK management team took over the leadership of the Ironworks? Are these supplies and how much they guarantee production and when they will start to purchase new raw materials and from what means? Is this from the funds that Jelizara will now start to create herself, because in previous years she was subsidized monthly by the Republic of Serbia's budget with 10 to 12 million dollars? Now she should make up for it herself, and also create a new value, enough to buy new raw materials. If something unexpected hadn't happened, something we haven't heard so far, that what's happening to us with Air Serbia... (Zoran Babic, from the post: What is going on with "Air Serbia"? ) With Air Serbia, we hear that it is making a profit of 2m euros, but we do not know that the Serbian government had an obligation to give 22m euros in the Air Serbia money in the past and this year. It would be good to have all this data from Serbian citizens, because when the story was here in parliament about Air Serbia, the argument about how good the job was that Austria Airlines bought Lufthanza by paying the state of Austria 500m euros to take over Lufthanza. We have so far paid for Air Serbia 300m euros. I don't know if it's a good job or not. In order not to sell the fog here as it is said, we need to have all the papers and therefore I repeat my question to Minister Sertic and the request to deliver to us a contract concluded with the "KPK Engineering" on the takeover of the "Smederevo Iron" leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25073	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25074	I would like to repeat the first question since January 21st of this year, the issue concerning it, and I have asked it to the Ministry of Finance, and I would now ask it to the government. Maybe the government will respond because the government is taking great care of the businessmen. The question is about the economy and the damage caused by the May floods. As you know, businesses and citizens have suffered damages over two billion euros. Many businessmen have suffered huge damages, their goods are flooded. The goods are in line with the regulations listed, the commissions have municipally done it, security houses. After that, the government was expected to write off VAT to those companies on failed goods in accordance with the law and the positive regulations. Even today, tax administrations, or its branches, have not received information on how and whether they can write off VAT to operators who have suffered huge flood damages. If the government cares so much about the economy, the development, the free market, here's a chance to show that these people are finally going to meet and that the law that's on their side is respected. It is clear that in all ways the government is trying to take every penny from both citizens and from the economy, but I think that these people, in order to survive in their work, have to be heard from the state and the state has to have the hearing to apply its own law and regulations in order to allow them to at least tax on that damage they had in the goods to be written off. The second issue of infrastructure ministers, since there are various speculations in the public about the construction of Corridor 11 or the South Adriatic. The question is, who are the contractors and subcontractors currently working on this corridor? The third question is for the government of the Republic of Serbia. These days in the King are protests by citizens from the GICA settlement due to floods caused by the western Morava. It's nothing strange, the citizens are very unhappy, because this problem lasts long. It lasted even during the previous government, and it's nothing controversial. What is completely amazing is that the protests are organised by committees of authorities calling for imaginary power to help, not calling the government of the Republic of Serbia. I want to help the boards of government today who spend millions on juices in that same neighborhood, but that's why there's no money for a proper misery. I am now asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because they are obviously not allowed to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia – when it will meet the citizens of the GICA settlement from the Kingdom, the Adriatic and to help or secure the construction of this misery. The fourth issue concerns the Ministry of Economy, regional development and the entire government. On the website of the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I saw a table with total incentives for regional development that applies individually and can be seen for each municipality. For the King, there has been a review for years, since 2011 when the employment incentive was 227 million, in 2014 the employment incentive was 75 million. Then, inciting exports as the government boasts in the economy that it supports all those who produce, as it expects everyone to engage and earn for themselves, the incentive of exports fell from 148 million to 28.9 million. That's five times smaller. Furthermore, inciting production, this is particularly interesting, 353 million and 900 thousand to 22 million. That's more than 15 times less. When we reach the total figure over the years, it decreased from 2011 to 2014, each year from a billion and 650 million to 839 million. So much is the concern of the government of the Republic of Serbia for regional development, for emptying some regions. He takes care of the citizens of these regions so much that every year, less and less funds go to them. That's also the case with Novi Pazar, where you have an incentive to hire from 142 million to 46, etc. So the total incentive for Novi Pazar from 768 million to 182. The question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia is why does it not seem more for the regional development of these parts?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25075	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) Before we continue to work, MPs allow me to welcome the students of the Philological High School of Belgrade in your name and in my name who followed the part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Mladen Grujic, Milorad Stosic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. We continue to work and move on the search in detail on the 2nd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON CONSTRUCTION OF THE PUBLIC ASSISTANCE AND SPECIFIC PROCEDURES OF EXPRIATION AND PROGRAMME OF THE CIVIL LICENCE TO REALIZE THE PROJECT OF THE "BELOBRAD ON VODI" 89th and 90th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on today's session to be attended by Aleksandar Vukic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, all members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as Srdjan Kokotovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Aleksandra Damnjanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Radmila Jagodic, Assistant Minister of Finance Djorđa Milic, Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and Saša Novakovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance. Let me just ask the co-workers of the minister. We'll take a five-minute break since the minister is on his way here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25076	Welcome, Mr. Minister. We're starting work. We move to the second item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC ASSISTANCE AND SPECIAL EXPRIATION PROCEDURES AND PROGRAMMES OF THE BUDGET FOR THE REALIZE OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE ‘BELIPRAD ON WATER’ PROJECT. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojsic, Mr Dejan Čapo, Vladimir Pavićić, Zoran Zivković, Olgica Batić, Katarina Rakić, Marko Djurisić, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Dusan Petrović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blaže Bradić, Ivan Karić, Aleksandar Senić, Boris Stefanović, Borisa Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozović, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Marjanović, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Jana Janović, Vesna Šujanjnović and Dragnitić as well as well as public and replin. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the bill, the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is made by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25077	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, you are alone here today, right, honourable MPs, I wanted to welcome the guests to the gallery but they are not here today, it seems that they were here last time because...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25078	You don't see well, they were guests at the National Assembly, but they left, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25079	Guests were when the last debate was likely due to the prime minister, not the "Berograda on Water", in which they do not believe, as well as spontaneously gathered citizens who were last time were and are not present. In this amendment relating to the title of the law, we asked to delete the word "public", because we do not believe that public interest can be to build luxury apartments and luxury office space, even catering facilities that they plan to build there, because it is not possible to replace one form of private property with another form of private property. So instead of Peter Petrovic, that's where Marko Markovic should live. This offends the fundamental postulate on which our Constitution rests and legislation, which is – the inviolability of public property. Prime Minister Vukic did not tell the truth when he said the property would be public. He won't. It will build apartments that will be private. Therefore, private property will be replaced by private property only by another owner, it is a question of which citizenship, and in that sense I believe it is necessary to delete the word "public" in the title of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25080	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25081	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is absolutely unacceptable for the SNS, and it is unacceptable for all those who want to hear the truth. The truth that the proponent has ignored in his explanation, which is the next thing. If we look at the Law establishing public interest and special procedures of expropriation, and we look at Article 4, which says, "The Republic of Serbia represented by the State's Attorney's Office for Expropriation Users" where are the apartments of Marko Miskovic, Janko Jankovic? Yeah, it's not Mark Miskovic, I'm sorry. Where are the apartments the amendment promoter talked about? The user of expropriation is the state of Serbia, no apartments, no private interests. I'll tell you what private interests are. I have in my hand this 2009 genius law that the amendment promoter didn't want to talk about, but he voted for it. The law, which was passed, sets out in Article 2 private company Jugoros Gas as a user of expropriation. You give direct private property to a private company, opposite of the Constitution, contrary to the Expropriation Act. Why don't you look, instead of smiling so hard now, the Expropriation Act, Article 8, which says that "the user of expropriation can be the state of Serbia, an autonomous province, the city, the city of Belgrade, units of local self-government, public enterprises, companies that are founded by public enterprises or companies owned by the majority of the state of Serbia. “ Is "Yugorosgas" majority owned by the Serbian state? No, it's only 25% owned, and it's how we lost those 25%, and we can mix it with the amendment's proposal, but I don't think he's going to like it. So here, in your direction and auto-projection, you gave private property to a private company. The law that we adopt and which is unacceptable in terms of acceptance of the amendments is the public interest of moving private property into the hands and into the use of the state of Serbia. Read the law, it will be clearer to you and therefore do not propose such amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25082	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25083	I want to confirm that this amendment is not acceptable for two reasons. First of all, if the name of this law were to erase the word – publicly, the law would read – the law on determining interest, which would not legally make any sense, although it may sound politically interesting to you. Secondly, in article 4, in addition to what MP Babic has already said, the Republic of Serbia is determined for the user of expropriation in general, and the City of Belgrade for the user of expropriation in places where public areas, schools, parks, etc. will be built. So that's what it says in Article 2(2). Finally, in the third position of Article 4, the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade have all the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the users of the expropriation provided for in the law governing the expropriation and this law. Therefore, this law does not deal with the construction project itself. This law deals with the determination of public interest and the provision of a project. The city of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia will be responsible for applying and using and signing all of the following contracts. So, in this law, we are only dealing with a question of public interest, and this is very clear by Article 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25084	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Dr Gordana Zoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25085	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with fellow Members, is certainly not to be accepted by this amendment because in the name of the law, there is practically the essence of the law that we should adopt in the Voting Day. That it is a public interest to build "Belgrade on Water" I think in principle we have already been able to prove because this is not about housing that is mentioned as not public interest. This is about the project "Belgrade on Water". I think we will agree that the "Belgrade on Water" project is a public interest in building the public interest of Serbia as well as Belgrade as it will benefit the whole of Serbia through the engagement of construction operations and the possibility of a large number of construction workers being employed. In the name of the bill, there is practically the essence of this law and I therefore believe and of course that the SNS in the voting day will refuse to accept this amendment for the reasons set out above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25086	Thank you. The word is made by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25087	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25088	You have no right to a replica. By amendment, if you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25089	Okay. I will use two minutes of parliamentary groups because the previous speaker said he would be there in "Belgrade on Water" that there will be a project "Belgrade on Water". So the SNS ambassador confirmed that there would be a virtual city there, that it would not be visible to the naked eye and that there would not live people who would get private property over those apartments, private property over those apartments. So, through public interest, that land will be exploited. There'll be some buildings built there, even if that's what you predicted. My colleague says she won't, but if you build some buildings, apartments will be built. You said you were going to sell them, the mayor was selling apartments last time, while the Prime Minister was selling cars last time. So there will be apartments built and private property on those apartments. How is it not a substitute for one private property with another private property? Those apartments might not be sold? Then you should have said that you're not selling these apartments, but that you're renting them, and that these 1,000 people they signed up know they're not going to be able to buy them, they're going to hire them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25090	You have no right to a replica, Mrs Zoric. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. (Zoran Babić, from the place: Replica, mentioned SNS. Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25091	You see, that's what the difference in our policies is about. We sell official cars because we want to cut costs, because we do not want to boast, unlike the parties of the former and current regime in Vojvodina, which uses official cars for private purposes, for a variety of other things, of course, on the cost of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are proud to sell these cars and the rolling stock because we want to reduce the cost of the budget and the cost and burden on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I thank the previous speaker for mentioning it, regretting the times when he had official cars and when he boasted about them. On the other hand, what I have long stopped doing, which is to educate people who do not want to hear, but "Belgrade on water" is a reality, as is unfortunately the reality of 400,000 people who have left the amendments without work, but the reality that in this "Belgrade on water", not in the project, but in realisation is done instead of their waste and kicks and trash and uncut grasses 242,000 m2 public areas, parks, 14% of the entire space will be parks for Belgrade, for guests of Belgrade, but also for other citizens of Serbia, there will be 62,000 m2 of public content, kindergartens, schools, institutions of culture, social and health care, everything the amendment promoter does not want to see, because he did not see when he is in that position, nor when he could build such things. Therefore, these apartments, as the promoter said, for Janko Jankovic, Marko Miskovic and these things, are not of interest to us, unlike them. We are interested in the city of Belgrade, building Beograd on water to become a European and world metropolis.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25092	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica? ) No, by amendment This was a replica, mentioning a party. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: Was this a replica?]] (Marko Djurisic, from the post: He spoke for two minutes and 20 seconds. ) Since the time of the parliamentary group, 20 seconds will be taken. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25093	Chairman, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. You treat the opposition incorrectly, you misbehave when it comes to authority and opposition, you give your word to the president of the parliamentary group without any basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25094	Mr. Veselinović, when your party is mentioned, you will be entitled to replication. Now you have a promise. Is your client mentioned, SDS? It's not. I thank Mr. Veselinovic. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. ) On what replica, Mr. Veselinovic? (Janko Veselinović, from town: You mentioned SDS. You are insecure, Mr. Veselinovic. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25095	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests, dear colleagues, the amendment was adopted, I suppose, that the prime minister began reading the book, since the first pages defined what the investment project meant and could understand that the construction of the project was only one of seven stages in the implementation of the project, so that the implementation of the project as a syntagma in Serbian and Serbian legislation meant nothing. They reiterate that the word "project" is mentioned in the Law on Planning and Construction exactly 99 times, and in form as an urban project, a preparation project, a geodetic marking project, a co-composition project, an idea project, a general project, a project for a building permit, etc., that the word "building" is mentioned exactly 44 times in the Law on Planning and Construction, but the syntagma of the construction project in the Law on Planning and Construction does not exist. It is good that the government has seen its mistake and has accepted the amendment. This suggests to me that the government may have more hearing and engage more professionals in the realisation of this project, so that our citizens may not be damaged through the realization of this project. It remains to be seen which will be the next moves of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25096	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25097	Just for a little while. I thank Ambassador Aleksandr Senić for the well-detected irregular formulation, and I am pleased that you have carefully read the text and suggested this. As you can see, we have adopted your amendment. In 1977, I defended the master's work on the theme "Kost-Benefit Analysis", i.e. designing, and I completely agree with you. So I don't think this is just this example, but in other places we need to strengthen our ability to prepare quality projects from verification to a final report on project realization. Therefore, I fully support your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25098	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25099	Thank you very much. Given that this amendment has been accepted, as the practice so far requires, it has not been expected to report that we are discussing it, but here, simply because of the citizens of Serbia who are very closely following this debate, and I appreciate that they will follow today and discuss the amendments, I must say the following. Any constructive proposal, at least so far could be fully identified in this assembly, encountered government approval, met with the approval of the majority in this assembly. The only thing I have to say, sir, is that you said now and the minister, thank you for the carefully read text and for the amendment being tabled and accepted, I would only comment if I wasn't sure that this was the government's fault. The government here is making proposals for legislation that we are discussing right now with the intention of improving laws, respecting what is constructive and, in the end, Serbian citizens need to know that today is a set of amendments, and somewhere 74 or 77, I'm not sure, one third, if not more, make amendments that read "explicate". So much for the constructiveness of some promoters and so much for the government's willingness to accept what is definitely affecting the improvement of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25100	Thank you, Mrs. Obradovic. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vladimir Pavicevic, Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25101	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Becic, will try during the amendment debate on this bill to convince all MPs in our National Assembly not to vote in favour of the anti-modernisation project "Belgrade on Water". I've prepared a large number of arguments here, gentlemen, and I want to take this opportunity now just to announce how I've grouped those arguments. Dear gentlemen, I have prepared here a review of Belgrade's urban plans, all in two centuries of urban development in Belgrade. "Belgrade on Water" is, if we carefully analyse this bill and the whole project, the opposite of everything that has been done, respected gentlemen, in two centuries of Belgrade's urban development. I have plans here from 1815 to 1830, which relate to the name Radoja Dedinac, Franc Janka, the regulation of Terrace 1842/1843. year, Emilijan Josimovic in 1867, honored gentlemen, Stevan Zaric in 1888, Jovan Beslić in 1893, Vasa Lazarevic and all the plans, respected gentlemen, in two centuries of urban development in Belgrade. There's always been a situation where we have a plan, so the project, so the construction, and here we have a model, so the construction, and the project, gentlemen, is gone. So this project is the opposite of everything that is a tradition in our two centuries of urban development of our capital. The other thing, gentlemen, I also prepared stenographic notes to talk about modernization here, and the legal and economic aspect is problematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25102	Time, thank you. Mr. Zivkovic, you don't have time, except for your five-minute time. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I have my amendment and five minutes. Mr. Zivkovic, since you filed in the same text, I'm not sure you do. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I have my amendment. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25103	Thank you. First, let's settle this, I'm talking about my amendment and each of these members Mr. Pavicevic and I have given special amendments and we're going to talk about each for two minutes, and plus we have five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25104	It's okay, Mr. Zivkovic, now I've been informed that you've submitted the amendments specifically, I thought it was a common amendment. I'll return the time, and then re-apply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25105	Thank you. This is a topic that has been rounding up the Serbian public for over a year. In the last few days, we have had an intense discussion about it both outside this House and outside this Parliament and in parliament. We also had a recent performance by the Prime Minister and a good part of the government who spoke praises about this project "Belgrade on Water", about dreams, about millions of meters of square business, residential space, public interest, billions of euros, chances for domestic construction operations, for domestic materials, for steel from Smedereva, etc., but of course this is not the subject of this law. Mr. Vujovic said nicely that this law does not deal with the "Belgrade on Water" project, but deals with land expropriation. We received information that this law is necessary because 5% of the land that is on this future is called private-owned project and that it is therefore necessary to transfer it to public property, property of the state of Serbia or the City of Belgrade, in order to begin the project. That's not true. The project, the construction of anything on the Sava amphitheater is possible, the construction is possible and remains 5-6% of private land, private property, because there is no law that prevents privates who are now the owners of parcels in the area from being participants and partners in the construction of "Biograda on Water". There's no reason for the state to apply force, and expropriation for public interest is a force. She sometimes has an excuse, but in this case she certainly doesn't. Therefore, if various companies from abroad or maybe some domestic phantom companies can be partners in this business, because we don't see it in the text, we don't see anywhere, maybe Asacom will be part of this project, maybe it will participate in all this...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25106	Time, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25107	I've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25108	Do you use it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25109	That's right. So in this law, we have no fact of who's going to build, when he's going to build, how much he's going to build. We've heard it all in reason, or in the story of the project, but absolutely nothing in the Lex specialis. Great promises that it is Serbia's interest, that it is Belgrade's interest to fall into the water. It is possible that Belgrade can have an interest in this project to arrange the Sava amphitheater, which is, I completely agree, a great mockery and what started to clean up I think is very good. They repeat once again, I think it's the top of the power of this government, to clean up some trash, more or less, but it's very far from those dreams that dream. I'm afraid it's some wet dream that's gonna end up hard for good. The big question is how to convince people in Leskovac, Nis, Novi Sad, Zajecar, and I can list the other 100 and some municipalities in Serbia, to understand that this is their interest. Why is it the interest of people who don't live in Belgrade? What are they going to get out of it, except that there will be people who will give part of their money through the budget to build something that, I repeat, might be a project of the state of Serbia, the City of Belgrade, some companies from Saudi Arabia and Asamakuma? I don't see happiness on the faces of anyone in Serbia, not even in Belgrade, of course, but especially outside Belgrade because of the talk about this project. The Constitution in Article 58 guarantees the enjoyment and protection of property acquired under the law. This property is sacred and of no interest called casinos, cafes, not to mention all the content that is far from polite, if you said what is planned to be built there, you might get a warning, or even a disfellowshipping from the session. I think it's something that's inadmissible to happen. So, if there is a great economic interest in Serbia around this project, which is all about "I come to you", because it's a 3.5 billion investment, and then we're talking about a $150 million investment and it's not going to cost the state anything, how is that possible? What is the “perpetum of the mobile ”? Well, it's not a sewing machine, it's not a sewing course, it's a little bit more serious. There is no lawyer in Serbia who said this is by law, no architect, no urbanist, a builder who said it was possible and no written man from the account, let alone an economist who can justify the economic viability of this project. So these are all the reasons why we have submitted amendments to all 17 members of this law. Of course, these amendments are “wipe out, ” for this is incorrigible. It is a great advantage of opposition MPs, so that at least in this way they can point to the senselessness of what the Serbian government is proposing. If anyone wants to build something in the amphitheater, take some of their money, bring some of their friends, I don't mind. Arabs, Russians, Turks, English, anyone. I certainly don't need to explain my cosmopolitan dream, but the question is, why is it dragging the state into it? Why is he dragging all of us into this? Why do we become MPs when we vote, but also as citizens, why do we become accomplices to this dirty work? It would be reasonable to say in the lex specialis – it is a public interest because two million squares of this or that space will be built here, so there will be a great share of the domestic economy. We heard here from a lot of ministers exact information the other day, the other day, that our construction operation is incompetent for this job, that it can't build towers 500-600 meters, 200, 300, 400, however, that it can't get a job on the construction of sidewalks because that's what some foreigners get under both the previous and this authority, and you're talking about it being a big castle of business.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25110	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25111	What “Sartid” iron? Well, 15 days cannot be taken over by Sartid under the secret contract. That's why we're voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25112	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic, who proposes the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25113	Dear Prime Minister, dear fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, Mr. Minister, it is my pleasure that you are present today as someone I highly respect and appreciate at this debate because you were not at the Committee's session when we discussed this law in principle. I'd like to ask you a few questions concerning the very public interest which is in an inadequate manner declared, not reasoned, but declared at the session the day before yesterday. What you mentioned a little bit in the light of that first amendment is that you understand cost-benefit analysis and that on that basis you claim this will be a successful project. First I ask you, is there one project like this in a seriously developed country that works under a special law? Why is there no respect for the legal procedure in this country for the implementation of this project? It immediately raises doubt, that's the first thing. Another thing, the market. To whom these millions of squares will be sold, if we know there were 19,000 applications in 2010 and 670 applications in 2014. Who are we going to sell these apartments to if we know what the purchasing power of the population is? Third, most importantly, there was talk here about cutting and all sorts of other things that had nothing to do with finances. We've received an analysis of the effects on two sides, Mr. Minister. You were talking about cost-benefit analysis. I ask you -- where's the justification study, where's the bank guarantee? Any serious project, if you say it is of public interest that there will be economic progress, there should be a bank guarantee and cost-benefit analysis and there should be an economic study. What happens to our money we saved from pensioners and all citizens of Serbia? It explains -- 33 billion countries will invest in infrastructure, editing and expropriation. How do we get that money back? Are we going back? How many squares does it take to sell to get my money back? Did we have a smarter place to invest this money today, when everyone needs it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25114	Thank you, 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25115	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I have tried and tried to read the text of these amendments. I understand that my colleague a farmer and a gentleman from the Faculty of Political Sciences are trying to perform some kind of obstruction and get these amendments to say something. But I am still, trying to keep reading what an academically congratulating doctor wrote, what a senior federal official wrote, as also written by a former Prime Minister, I have tried very hard to read the text of these amendments. So I believe they wrote it, I believe they worked hard, but the amendments look like this. I spent the whole night trying to read, believing I'd read something smart, given that it was written by a doctor and one of my fellow farmers, I believed it was a combination of expertise and practice, so I'd have something to read here. However, I have not been able to read the text of these amendments which read about, the text of the amendment looks like this – instead of Article 1 we have identical texts that look about like this. If I had been able to read this text, I would have voted in favour of an amendment that I could read because of the academic integrity of the writer and fellow farmer. However, I failed, in spite of my best wishes, to do so. Either the gentlemen in question didn't have a pen or they hated writing or they copied each other, so they didn't have anything to copy. Most of the time, I realized they're against construction. I believe that, since one of them was a federal official, he was the Prime Minister and in his term, little of what he had built. I believe that "Belgrade on Water", which they only think is a dream, and all the big ideas and all the big projects come from sleep and vision, I believe and build "Belgrade on Water", and I believe that we will build it, that in this situation the Republic of Serbia will earn. Public interest, I wasn't the Prime Minister, the public interest was established by the laws of 1995, 2009 and 2013, there was no kidnapping, public interest preceding the expropriation. So, this government did not pass the initial law, so it was passed in 1995, 2009, and was corrected in 2013 and the Expropriation Act proposes public interest, as the first procedure in expropriation. When expropriations are carried out, the owner of the property becomes the state of Serbia, i.e. in this situation is the Republic of Serbia and the city of Belgrade. So nothing is given and property is undeniably state-owned. It joins with the investor to fertilise and thus the Republic of Serbia can own 30 per cent of built space and gain public surfaces, green areas with which to be proud. So nothing is given. It's all property of the state of Serbia, but someone who can't write a better text of amendments than this is obviously deliberately trying to understand nothing. Regardless of the content of this amendment, I cannot vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25116	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Replication to the presentation of the previous speaker. What for, Mr. Pavicevic? You can only pick up the amendment. You have no right to be a replica. The word is Dr. Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25117	Dear fellow Members of the People, I am simply caught up in the words that my esteemed colleagues used to explain the need to delete this amendment. Two key words - anti-modernization and that this job of realising the project "Beograda na Voda" will be a dirty job. Now let's imagine the next situation. In order to build New Belgrade, those who decided on the public interest to extract sand from Belgrade's rivers from the pumps and to soak wetland and to launch a major modernization project to build New Belgrade by hiring thousands and thousands of people in work actions, so it will be used and heavy machinery, that our fellow citizens, who are still alive and able to testify, have said – this will be a dirty job. Of course it's a dirty job. Dirty work is always modernizing the country because something that's now dead capital needs to be cleared up. It is a very precise finding because the Sava amphitheatre is one dead capital because it is an area bordered by railway lines, because it is simply unusable. We MPs, when we travel to official visits to different countries, and I want to testify, my experience is from China, it is that our colleagues proudly show us the models. I had a chance to see a model of a city in China where they were designing these construction procedures until 2035. So we can't wait for anything, we have to go out to meet the future. So this is how a modernization project is done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25118	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) Mr Pavicevic, because of the scope of the amendments, the seriousness of the debate, only today if anyone is mentioned in a negative context, name and last name, will be entitled to replication. Thank you. Mr. Bozovic, you must wait for me to finish with Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Replica na Novi Belgrade. ) Mr. Pavicevic, you can only apply the amendment. That, interpretation, did someone misread you, which, as chairman, today I do not want to waste time interpreting. You didn't mention your name and name, and I don't want to go further with you. Thank you. Mr. Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25119	I thank the chairman. So, I'm advertising Article 104, and if you'll let me explain. It is precisely because there is a controversy about one very important thing per state of Serbia and per citizen of Serbia, Mrs Vukomanovic has just said something concerning the presentation of the previous speaker, Mr Pavicevic. I think it's really important that if we couldn't talk about "Belgrade on Water" two days ago as a subject that was on the agenda, let's talk about the amendments now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25120	I thank Mr Bozovic, you have the right to make amendments, you have the right time for parliamentary groups. I know that you want to keep being a lawyer, and despite Mr. Pavicevic being on your list, you don't have to be Mr. Pavicevic's lawyer every time, the distinguished professor knows it himself. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25121	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice-President of the National Assembly and Chairman of today's session, Mr. Bečić, the Honored Minister Vujovic and the Honored Minister Selakovic, the respected guests of the Ministry to whom I know Mr. Vujovic, just now broke the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, Article 103, which defines the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. As part of that article, gentlemen, it is possible for one MP to use two minutes of time to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Bozovic, one of the MPs here, appeared after the violation of the Rules of Procedure, tried to explain how the Rules of Procedure had been injured, and you, Mr Bežić, past the Rules of Procedure, broke it past the law of Mr Bečić before two minutes had expired and thus prevented Mr Bozovic from completing his reasoning of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25122	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. As with you, to read the Rules of Procedure a little more carefully, Mr Pavicevic, to read the Rules of Procedure more carefully in the Rules of Procedure, it is said, can be spoken for up to two minutes, meaning up to two minutes. The chairman of this case, under Article 104, is well said – about the use of rights and attitudes 1 and 2 so that I do not read attitudes 1 and 2 you know him very well, the chairman of the National Assembly decides. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25123	Thank you, President-in-Office, I believe that you have injured a 27th member who says that the implementation of this Rules of Procedure is the old President of the National Assembly, to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. So it is said in Article 103 that the MP has the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure for up to two minutes. Where does it say the chairman decides when he'll cut that time short? Wait for the speaker to speak for up to two minutes, say those arguments he has in those two minutes, and then you, as this Rules of Procedure puts it, answer whether or not you think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt, you can also determine that someone has misused the Rules of Procedure's breach and that you give the measures. So, in this Rules of Procedure, what you said doesn't say, you have no right to take someone's word away when it's less than two minutes. Also, you said that especially today because of the importance of this session, you will in no way know which way to determine who will have the right to reply or not. Where it says in this hateful Rules of Procedure, you hate it, that today is a special day and that some special rules apply today. The rules apply the same as every day and the rules apply to everyone. He can't speak to the head of your parliamentary group for two minutes and 20 seconds, when it clearly says here that the replica lasts for two minutes. Where does someone give him the right besides you? I ask you, then, that we also have the right to the replica as it says in the Rules of Procedure, and it says in the Rules of Procedure that the right to the replica is given to the one who is misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25124	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. As you can see, I did not interrupt you, because you did not abuse the call to the Rules of Procedure, you explained why you think I violated the Rules of Procedure. The moment one of the speakers tries to abuse the Rules of Procedure and uses it for a replica and the Rules of Procedure allows it to be up to two minutes, I, as chairman, can prevent the MP from breaking the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Is there anyone else in the Rules of Procedure? The word is Miss Jerkov. Here you go. Excuse me, do you want the Assembly to plead? Yes, all right, I thought the Assembly should plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25125	Dear Mr. Becic, if you could remind Mr. Babic not to speak while the other MPs speak, because we are distracted in the presentations. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that you violated article 27. A Rules of Procedure which says that in our case, the Vice-President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. This means that Article 104 provides for what conditions you give the replica. You can decide on your own, and that is the exclusive right of the chairman, but not based on who you like or on who is from the ruling coalition, and who is not from the ruling coalition, but on whether or not the conditions of former Articles 104 have been met. So it's not just a replica if someone offends someone. Well, you just told Mr. Babic a little while ago and gave him a replica just because the party he belongs to was mentioned. Now, if the goal is to wrap ourselves up so that we don't speak the exact names of the parties, we can function that way, but that gives this whole debate an unserious tone, and that's not how we're going to talk about this project that you're going to know a little bit, and it's going to cost the citizens. If the goal is not to speak the names of the parties now so that we avoid mentioning the name and name of the MPs so that you may have reason not to give up the replica then we can do so, but only then say so because such rules will apply to everything because it is not a matter of the ingenuity of the MPs of the ruling coalition who do so but one, I would say, incorrect behavior, which we can also resort to, and if you say so you should.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25126	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. That is exactly what I said, that when a party is mentioned in a negative context that this person will receive the right, that party will receive the right or representative of that party's right to reply. Nothing more and nothing different from the Rules of Procedure, so I don't know what I said that you didn't like. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah, okay, and thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25127	I thank the chairman. Given that I am reporting under the amendment, and especially given that certain criticisms relating to the bill itself, and in particular Article 1, we have to make a very precise statement, then we need to point out something that the legal profession cannot accept. It is said here that the bill should stand supposed to and what it should be built on, from which material, with which means and what money. Well, my people, it's legal for us lawyers absolutely nonsens. I don't understand critics that point to something that can't be contained in norm. I'll just remind you that this law that we're discussing today is a procedural law. It shall contain elements of the procedures in which the appropriate procedure is carried out. In which certain questions are addressed, both status and other. So here we have an absolute procedure that regulates this law. If that is the case, and it is, then we come up with the essential thing – what is it, essentially, lex specialis? Well, it's not just what we heard when we talked here and discussed the principle of this law. That's what the introduction to right contains. There is no law that is not subject to derrogation. Those who studied Law School have learned a Roman sentiment that says "lex specialis derogat lies generals", which means that the essence of the special law applies to the derrogation of general law, and that means that any law, including the law on planning and construction, can be derrogated in a particular section. We have also come to numerous cases in legal practice both in life situations and in life circumstances when any law is derrogated. In court practice, it's common. Norma derogates the law, not the law. What is very important to point out for the citizens is the fact that in this case, it was not possible to approach problems other than by bringing lex specialis. When it comes to constitutionality, since here often...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25128	Please, Miss Jerkov, allow Mr. Jovanovic to complete the exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25129	Thank you, Borko.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25130	Also, Mr. Stefanovic. Don't disturb Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25131	Do you allow me to continue the chairman? What is also considered very important here, and also because of citizens and because of the truth, is the next fact. We have a situation that lex specialis regulates procedural legal issues that the existing law in a different way could not have been applied, because that effect that is expected of this law could not have been achieved. You asked the question of constitutionality. The issue of constitutionality can only be asked before the Constitutional Court of Serbia and only the Constitutional Court of Serbia can assess whether something is constitutional or not. The moment the conditions are obtained for submitting a constitutional initiative or constitutional appeal, then the Constitutional Court will give its word, but it seems to me that critics of this law are coming to colluding with themselves, at least in certain parts of this law. This law is certainly not unconstitutional in that part of which no doubt confirms public interest when it comes to kindergartens, when it comes to infirmarys, when it comes to facilities of general purpose. For such a thing, the state, the government of the Republic of Serbia, was absolutely established to establish public interest in a particular location. Therefore, in that part, even those who criticise themselves deny themselves in this criticism, because for that part of the law in no way can be established or declared unconstitutional, or even by the Constitutional Court. This legal reference, my legal smallness, is just a small contribution for citizens to have one full picture, one clear picture, at least facts that can be difficult to question, and even from the greatest critics of this law, because ultimately, the SPS MPs hold very much up to spoken words and lead to the fact that this word will be spoken in the right way and what effect it will have. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25132	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25133	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, treasure us with such opposition, we should not fear the election for the next 10, 20 years for sure. When someone asked such unserious questions and this is how the amendment is commented, it's really amazing. No wonder that from the signing of the SAA in four years from 2008 to 2012, nothing happened on its way to the EU. The former regime and government worst in Serbia's history, Tadic, Cvetkovic, is nothing in the act, so there was nothing in these activities except judicial reform, which was both domestic and critical, and here we see why. We're talking about expropriation law, so we're talking about expropriation, we're not talking about building buildings, etc. and here is the question: how will we return the money invested to the budget, and the money invested is for land-settling where? In downtown Belgrade. Someone ruled for a decade in Belgrade and did not invest a dinar, whose if not the citizens, will therefore serve taxes, taxes, excise taxes and everything else. And someone didn't do anything to fix it and to be in office one big part of the city, the city center except for the breeding of snakes and mice and for railway waste, and now the question is how we're going to get our money back into the budget. So by being in function and purpose, then those who use this land will pay land use fees, pay property taxes, pay profit taxes, and in this way we will pay back the money invested and even contribute much more to the budget than it will be invested in bringing in the purpose of the land. Secondly, the question arises – at what price a square will be sold, for example. In a building? Well, you seem to be used to knowing this, that someone has to come to you to ask how and what price it will be, so the investor determines. Probably on the first floor one price, at a 20th second price, but it shows how much you don't understand basic business. Who are you to ask or any of us investors at what cost? The market determines, the investor determines, so if he succeeds in selling it, if he fails to sell it, of course his goal is to sell it, and on that basis pays the tax again, so he pays the property tax, so he pays a new profit tax, at all. So, it's so clear, rather than deliberately asking questions that have nothing to do with this bill, it's trying to stop something that's really modernising Serbia, which is something new, which is supposed to contribute to a new image and Belgrade, which is now on Europe's tourist maps, and it wasn't up until a year ago, which has growth and a visit if we're talking about, the growth of foreign visits from year to year more and more, and Serbia, which is a contribution, which contributes and thanks to tourism, contributes to repairing Serbia's situation and everything that happens to us, including Serbia's image itself. No wonder the SNS has 50.6 ratings in recent studies, while the main opposition party has 7% rating, which 71% of Serbian citizens are dissatisfied with the opposition's work. How to be satisfied when the amendments are deleted, and the reasons for the amendment to something completely pointless that does not apply to the law at all, and that 56% of Serbian citizens support the prime minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Just keep them going, don't get upset with your colleagues. There will be an even greater difference here in the number of MPs after the next election than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25134	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. Mr. Pavicevic, if you want a replica, you have to wait for order, Mr. Djurisic has a replica, and when he is finished, Mr. Djurisic, then we will consider whether you had the right to reply. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Either right to replica, or according to the Rules of Procedure]] Mr. Djurisic, a replica to Mr. Shormaz's presentation, for mentioning the party's president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25135	Thank you, Your Honor. The exhibition mentioned that nothing was done in 2008-2012 on the way to European integration. If we need to make a little reminder, let's go. First visas were lifted and then candidate status was obtained, in 2009, visas were lifted for citizens of the Republic of Serbia so that they could travel and in 2012 in February, Serbia gained candidate status. What was done in those four years? The investment "Fijata" was made, and at the end of 2012, production began in Kragujevac, the factory that today is the largest exporter in the Republic of Serbia. Many other investments were made, only in 2011 the level of foreign investment was close to two billion euros. The infrastructure projects completed the bridge on Ada, started, agreed half a year ago, fortunately, finally completed the bridge in Zemun, via the Danube. Corridors 10 are fully agreed, secured funding. Unfortunately, this government has failed to finish them in three years. The work on Corridor 11. Some papers end, unfortunately, nothing has been done in three years, not a single new mile has been agreed, not planned. That's all the facts and all the citizens know. Of course, because of media control they cannot hear two foreign stories, only one party in Serbia exists. How much support she has, we could see by spontaneous, illegal gathering two days ago in front of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25136	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. Mr. Pavicevic, why do you think you have a relationship? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I am the applicant of the amendment. Mr. Shormaz... I thank Mr. Pavicevic. You don't have a chance on that basis. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead. Mr. Pavicevic, under Article 103, only if you allow me to say so, before you explain. According to Article 103, since I had a remark from one part of the MPs that I should not interrupt and prevent the abuse of the rules of procedure, I will no longer interrupt this article, but I will strip the time allowed by the Rules of Procedure, two minutes after the abuse of the Rules of Procedure's violation. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Becicu, the Honorable Minister Vujovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry. I believe he's a injured member of 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in whose position 1 states - O order at the meeting of the National Assembly is the president of the National Assembly. Please, Mr. Becic, don't abuse that place where you're sitting right now and allow me to explain in two minutes how you injured article 108. For example, you warned Mrs. Jerkov's folk letter not to throw it away. You warned MP Mr Stefanovic not to throw away, and they whispered two words. At the same time, Mr. Babic was throwing loudly here, Mr. Becic, speaking, Mr. Orlic, Mr. Atlagic, so there are no SNS MPs, Mr. Jovicic, no SNS MPs who didn't laugh, no loud throw. (Dear Shormaz, from the place: so am I. Mr. Shormaz himself is reporting to say, "Here I am now." (Dear Shormaz, from the place: I was talking, man.) ) Here, look now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25138	Mr. Shormaz, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25139	You, Mr. Becic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25140	Even though you've been called for no reason, don't throw now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25141	Instead of applying the rules of the Rules of Procedure equally to all MPs, you become biased, so when you hear and whisper one that comes from this side, you show one sensitivity, you immediately warn here, and on the other hand, when we have laughter, when we have the joy, when we have the inability to have a serious debate, you do not say a word of warning, Mr. Becic, there. Please, I think I've explained very well how you injured Article 108. Rules of Procedure, although I am right, that you finally give yourself a warning measure, Mr. Becic, as chair of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25142	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. As you have had the opportunity to see, I warned Mr. Shormaz when he set out to prevent you from speaking and throwing away, but unfortunately, in this room I can't ban laughter on one side or on the other, it's a natural human trait, so don't ask the chairman to prohibit laughter in the hall, but surely harassment of speakers, we will strictly respect the Rules of Procedure to warn both sides. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. Thank you. Mr. Shormaz, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. (Dear Shormaz, from the city: No. Don't you? Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, you're in line for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25143	I wanted to rely on this discussion on a special law, on the fact that a special law can derivate the basic law in that area. My esteemed colleague told the sentiment taught in the first year of law, Mr Selaković probably knows this, lex specialis deroga legi generali – A special law derogates the general law. However, there is another sentiment, it is usually in small letters written and some students may not have read it, and it is a lex speciali non deroga lex constitutionali -A special law cannot derogitari the highest act of the state, i.e. the Constitution. This is about the fact that the basis of a special law, the Constitution has derivated, has touched the basis of a constitutional position in private property that is not touched by any constitution of modern Europe. It is a characteristic of only the legislation of countries that do not treat private property as a fundamental human right. There have been such cases in the history of Serbia, Yugoslavia, there have been even talks about them today. But that's the real hurt, and that's what we were talking about, that's what the best law school student would have to know. That would be a law school student, I don't mean Mr. Selakovic here on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25144	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25145	Just a brief note. I just want to confirm what Ambassador Jovanovic has already said, that this is about a law governing the procedure of expropriation and the issue of a building permit. So it's a procedural law and therefore, calculating bone benefit analysis as investments and results may be applied but only in a limited sense. Therefore, this is a process and not direct effects, and it is explicitly said that this does not refer to a project that will be on the site, nor has the project been defined. As for the very cost of expropriation, one space that is at least 100 years out of operation and at least 50 years, 45 years is in the plans for the arrest of purposes, the costs will be according to those estimates that were said yesterday, which are in the explanation and in other documents will be 850 million, as foreseen by the budget of the expropriation this year and around 40m euros over the next five years. When 170 hectares of surface area are divided with that amount, it is received 19.24 euros per square metre, which is a very low price, the average price of bringing that space into the property of the City of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia. It can be calculated exactly the useful area, i.e. the area that will be at least on public surfaces and other elements of that project, but this is a order of size that is too small to be subject to some meaningful seriousness. Although the amount seems quite serious, the square meter is very small. Finally, the data found under the law that the regulation of public areas will be 33 billion, which is around 161 euros per square metre of all public areas expected on average. It is also very low compared to the average square meter price in Belgrade, very low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25146	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25147	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, therefore, have been told several things that I can fully agree with. The best student certainly knows that a regular law cannot derivate the Constitution and that nothing is disputed, but we do not hear what the Constitution dictates? You have a tendency to define the Constitution by adopting this bill. Take it before one who has the authority to appreciate the constitutionality of general acts and has no problem with it, it will certainly be neither the first nor the last initiative of that kind, but it is important to know the order and what order it can go in. Come on, tell me what's in this law disputed? We've heard of another law that goes directly to a private company for the benefit of a private company. On one page of A4 format stood the whole law. When you take away his technical members, he has three members. The state expropriates something directly in favour of a private company, and here you take and read the bill in favour of the Republic of Serbia. What's the opposite of public interest? What's the opposite of the Constitution? The Expropriation Act says, which is being developed by the Constitution, because the Constitution cannot be applied directly, the expropriation is based on laws or regulations adopted under this law, referring to the Expropriation Act. So we also know the possibility of passing a special law that will provide for an expropriation procedure. Here's the bill. You have a chance at the Constitutional Court to say it's unconstitutional, use it, but let us go into development and development projects like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25148	Mr. Bozovic, on what grounds? (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: After the amendment. After the amendment? You must wait, before you've heard from MP Zoran Babic by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25149	By amendment, of course, Mr. Chairman. Many topics have been opened, and I thank Mr Selakovic, who raised the issue of expropriation and the law that this National Assembly adopted in 2009. It is also mentioned in Corridor 11. Let's talk about expropriating land for Corridor 11. Let's see how the expropriation was done and the state contracted to... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Theme. I know that someone is not the subject when the damage the Republic of Serbia has done. I know you wouldn't want to talk about it, but for Corridor 11, the state committed itself to expropriating the land in three months, even though they knew that such a job and such an extensive job at that length was impossible in three months. And only by the goodwill of a friend of this state from Azerbaijan these deadlines are extended. In advance, they made a contract and expropriated land for Corridor 11 and, in advance, caused damage to the state of Serbia, obliging themselves to deadlines they could not comply with. So, what's the derrogation here? What's a "Fiyat" contract that really means a lot to the Republic of Serbia's budget, but when you look for a hook for why some contracts are protected, and they protect every member from the first to the last member of the Fiat contract, and now they object to what other contracts are protected, and they held that marker and drew on that contract as they wanted and wanted. Then what's the deregation here? What is delegated when it is said – two billion foreign investments have led to it? Did they mean Miskovic's investments and Miskovic's sales of "Maxia" Delez' property? Is that, too, if it wasn't a private property attack, or did you get so close that you considered Miskovic's property as your own? What's derogated here and how it's possible to pool so many billion foreign investment, as you just said two billion, and 400,000 people are out of a job. So, where are those investments? Where's the money? Did he fit in his private pockets? As soon as there was no employment, there was no investment. Otherwise, why would someone invest in Serbia, except to hire people and make money? Why not? So, you don't read the right data. First you put on the markers that you were so masked, the contracts and what you were doing, and then you're just talking about this job that's clean as a whistle.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25150	The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, on the basis of the presentation of Justice Minister Selakovic, I hold in my hand a verdict of the Constitutional Court, which was adopted on 31 October 2012, which calls for the principle of unity of the legal order, as set out in Article 4. The constitution, as the minister of justice knows very well, given that the constitutional principle of unity of the legal order requires that the basic principles and legal institutes provided for by the laws, which systemically regulates one area of social relations, be respected also in special laws, Mr Selakovic. In this case, the system law is the Expropriation Act, where Article 20 is violated. The law of expropriation, which Decidantly states what public interest is. So this is where the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to transfer to the MPs the responsibility of violating the Serbian Constitution. The Constitution of Serbia is in breach of Article 4 where the unity of the legal order is discussed, and Article 58 provides that property rights can be seized or restricted only in the public interest of the established law, and in this case, the law on expropriation and Article 20 has been violated. You keep trying to make the shopping mall public interest in the Republic of Serbia. No citizens will have any interest in shopping malls, and this government knows very well. What else is the point here? The bottom line is that the government, with its business machinery with the investor, is protecting itself behind most of this House of the National Assembly, and it certainly won't go away when you do, and you're aware of that. For this reason, someone will answer to Serbia's judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25152	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25153	Thank you, Your Honor. It is an incredible concern for the former regime's representatives about the Constitution and the legal principles of our country, and we have seen in the past how much they care about reforming the judiciary in our country and what assessments they have received from the EU and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One former regime MP says -- we've done everything and everything, we've built tens of kilometers of highways, we've built infrastructure, we've done everything, and, in the end, the citizens know it. If they know, gentlemen, why did you get 5% or 6% in the election if they knew? Either you insult the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or something is wrong with you. I believe our people are intelligent and also see that this project brings something good to Serbia. If we talk about the Expropriation Act, the law itself states that the Government can establish a public interest in expropriation if expropriation of immovableity is necessary for building facilities in the fields of education, health, social protection, culture, water economy, sport, transport infrastructure, energy, etc. As you know, this project will include health institutions and sports institutions, 242 thousand kilometres of square areas will be green areas, 62,000 square meters of facilities that have a medical purpose, a social purpose, but what is most important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what is most important to SNS is a job for our people, a job for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I've set an example. Obviously, the representatives of the former regime can't understand it, because it was never in their interest to be a people, but a personal interest, and we're adopting a law of public interest and obviously it bothers them. On the other hand, my personal position, and that is certainly shared by other MPs, even coalitions, is not a disputed "Belgrade on Water", is a controversial man who is trying to bring about a improvement in our economy, who wants to bring new jobs, which finally wants to raise our country because it has been devastated for 20 years. That's the problem. Aleksandar Vukic is a problem for them, not for "Belgrade on Water". On the other hand, it's a good thing the citizens recognize Alexander Vukic's initiative. You can't take that away from them. I set an example to assume that five thousand people are working on that project every day, five, and there will be more. It's estimated about 13,000, but make it five, make it a gross salary of 800 euros, because there'll be engineers, mechanical, construction workers, carpenters, builders, physicists, everyone will work on it. On these 5,000 salaries alone, we have about four million euros a month, about 40m euros a year at the expense of the salary, which will pump up living money and that dealer who sells peanuts, seeds and what makes up rubber, plastic, glass, anything that is necessary to build this project, and everything that is necessary in the functioning of our lives, our citizens in Belgrade. You're talking about "Belgrade on Water", let's not talk about "Belgrade on Water", here I ask you – and what did you do in Belgrade otherwise? What did you do, for example, in the municipality of Vozdovac, in the vantage point, people don't have water...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25154	Mr. Jovic, you need to talk about the subject, you can't talk off topic. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: He speaks of the subject. It's a public interest. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25155	I'm talking about darkness. Public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25156	Mr. Granny, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25157	For me, public interest is a sacred letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25158	You can talk about the public interest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25159	For them, it's just a political struggle against Alexander Vukic. Mr. Chairman, I will direct you, there is one municipality everyone has long forgotten about. This is, for example, the Palilu municipality, which is six kilometers by air line from the Republic Square. There people still have septic pits, no plumbing, no sewers, no infrastructure, no safety. Who's to blame? Now, that's what we're going to do, Mr. Chairman, in the next period, and we're going to bring investment into the capital, we're going to bring investment. You saw in Krupan yesterday that people are busy, that's what's going to happen in other parts of Serbia, but in you, it's going to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25160	Mr. Bozovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25161	... acuity, because you weren't able to do it. Let Serbia finally develop, in fact, if I were you, it would always be political to think about attacking something that brings new jobs, bringing a new image of Belgrade, and finally bringing a better economic situation to our main work and our country. But your interests are always ahead of the public interest, and I'm not surprised you're acting this way, but there's a difference between us and you and I are happy that this project will bring in a completely different and economic picture of Belgrade and Serbia in four to five years' time, as well as our image in the world and in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25162	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25163	Okay, I think a few members are injured, I'm going to talk about article 107. - that the speaker at the session is obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. A colleague in his inspired speech said among other things that something was wrong with me. You didn't hear that. I was looking for a replica, you think I don't have the right to a replica, and this isn't the first time that opposition MPs here are being taught lessons, lectures, diagnosed, sent to treat and stuff like that. I understand those who grew up and who learned from Vojislav Seselj that they can't get out of their skin and act like that today even though they're propagating some other policy when they can control themselves, when what they've learned from their basic legs comes from them, then they start with insults. We will not insult other Messengers, nor will we speak falsely. We're gonna tell the truth, we're gonna talk about arguments, we're gonna ask that the interests of the citizens in this House be protected by every law today in this law. Please, Mr. Chairman, be focused so this session doesn't get out of hand. So I ask you to listen to what and how the MPs speak to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25164	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. I'm trying, although you must understand, sometimes the noise in the hall or the speakers step away from the microphone and we can't, as the chairman, hear every word, but I'm absolutely sure that Mr. Djurisic and that word you've spoken, the MP would get a warning at the same time. Since that didn't happen, or I don't think it happened, I'll check the stenogram, if it is a response. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Yeah. Thank you. Is there anyone else after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, is there anyone else after the amendment? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. You have no basis for replica, sir... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Why? Just tell me, Mr. Stefanovic, on what basis? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Direct address on our political option. ) Did he mention the Democratic Party or Mr Stefanovic? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Not Stefanovic. I thank you. Is the Democratic Party mentioned? No, I don't. Thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Well, it's really a shame you're doing. ) The first amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karić. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25165	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs. So I have to refer briefly to something that several MPs, respected MPs, have said so far, and one has even said that because of this one someone will answer to the judicial authorities and have called for a violation of the system provisions of the Expropriation Act, more specifically Article 20. First, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 20. The Expropriation Act speaks of cases where the Government of the Republic of Serbia determines public interest. When the Government of the Republic of Serbia determines public interest. We are in the National Assembly and are discussing a bill establishing public interest. Therefore, if the Expropriation Act provides that the Government, the Executive Authority, may establish public interest within the limits of the Expropriation Act. So who can forbid the National Assembly from defining the public interest by special law, when it's obvious that the same one exists? Take an esteemed colleague and read the good of both the Constitution and the law to which you are called. And if someone's going to answer to the judicial authorities, I don't know how he didn't respond to that logic of yours, someone for the benefit of a private company's expropriation. Because it's the law, and whoever works under the law doesn't call for responsibility. The Constitution, please read Article 58. The Constitution. Take a look at article 58. The constitution, first read it, then answer the word, and say something here and really hold some level of seriousness, we demonstrate it on our own, and someone is threatened with criminal responsibility because of what they're doing by law, it's really not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25166	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25167	So, in the amendment to Article 1, contrary to what we have proposed in the very name of the law, it is to be thrown out of the text of the word "public", because there is no "j" here from the public. So, in light of the fact that our amendment has not been accepted, the government said that by erasing the word "public" from the law's name, it loses the essence for which the law is proposed. We are precisely because of this essence, a substance which is in a picturesque way but also very dangerous now explained by Minister Selakovic. He says the government was given to determine what public interest is, to establish public interest. Does this mean to Mr Selakovic that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can determine that it is in the public interest for you to build a house in some area and to tear down someone else's house during that time? That's exactly the law. So it's the commercial interest of a private-owned company, the Prime Minister said -- in good relations with the sheik, so due to the commercial interest of a private-owned company, it turns into a public property that will tomorrow be converted into private property, the property of a company. This is what is not of interest to my neighbours in Novi Sad, nor the people of Nis, nor the people of Backa Palanka, Smederev, and the people of Belgrade, except, said the good prime minister -- several buildings around this Sava amphitheater whose price of apartments will rise. Whose interest is it that the apartments will grow? It is the private interest of the owners who live there and it is possible that someone will now buy an apartment and that he will take advantage of that possibility. It is about that, Mr Selakovic, that the public interest is a category of legal which is clearly recognised in the legal profession and this law "lex specialis" our legislator has come out of the general framework of public interest because he has declared for the public interest something that is the commercial interest of a company and it is a dangerous precedent.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25168	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. I apologize to Mr. Bozovic, Mr. Selakovic's replica, has the advantage. I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25169	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the twisting of the thesis again. The truth is that the Government of the Republic determines the public interest, but this is not a cabinet session, this is a session of the National Assembly. (Janko Veseinovic throws out of place. No, you don't. You have before you a bill that defines the public interest and provides for a land expropriation procedure on a number of catastrian parcels. What private companies? What private interests? Well, where do you see it in this law? What is the subject of this law? Who's the user of the expropriation here? Let's see. This is a debate in detail, as far as I'm concerned. Here we're talking about your amendment, one destructive amendment, says it's deleted. We have a constructive bill, you've got a destructive amendment and you've been mixing the basics all along. I respect you very much, I respect you, Dr. Veselinović. You're a doctor of science, a doctor of law science. The Expropriation Act says that the government determines the public interest and an entire member with, I think, seven, eight views is committed to it, and more likely than that. We are here talking about the fact that this bill specifically determines the public interest. Be careful, the National Assembly is a stronger authority than the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If the Government can, on the basis of the Expropriation Act, establish public interest, then the National Assembly can, by law, establish public interest in a special situation like this. What kind of private interest are you talking about? It is said here that it is done in favour of the Republic of Serbia represented by the state's defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25170	Time. I thank the ministers. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So this is about something that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to keep out the public, and that's simply not true. Article 58. The Constitution, Mr Selakovic, obviously you have not read, so I will take advantage of the opportunity, predicting that property rights can be taken away or restricted only in the public interest established under the Expropriation Act in Article 20. Now, the public interest is 0.8% of public buildings built on the territory of the Sava amphitheater at 177 hectares, is that public interest? You can tell Mr Selakovic that in front of this Assembly, since you have an absolute majority, that today is August 13th and that the National Assembly finds it and you say it – yes, it is public interest that we now privatise the National Bank of Serbia and that it is privatised by Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, but it is not a public interest. You can call him that, but that's not it. You, based on most, are trying to insult the health of Serbian citizens. There is no public interest in 0.8% of public purpose facilities, and we do not have in the contract that the investor commits to these 0.8% of public purpose objects, because you do not have a contract. You say he will invest three billion euros directly in the Sava amphitheater area and then you said two days ago that anyone who invests three billion euros for him should not be subject to the Constitution and the laws of Serbia. Because God gave Abu Dhabi to be in downtown Belgrade. I'm sure that won't happen. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: What's wrong? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25172	Please, Mr. Djukanovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25173	Five hundred million euros cost the citizens of Belgrade land. You give it to the investor without any contract on the construction of Beograd na Voda. That's why you came to the National Assembly today to give half a billion euros to the investor who is your prime minister's friend and trust me on the word that one day the judicial authorities will have their hands full when it comes to this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25174	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. You're right, but I have to delete the list to sign up after Mr. Jovicic. Here you go, Mr. Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25175	Thank you, Chairman. We know that representatives of the former regime are scattered by millions. I guess that was their fault while they were in power, so millions of people over there. On the other hand, as far as privatisation is concerned, there's nothing to privatize. They were all robbery privatisations, so there's nothing left to privatize. They've arrived for such a short period of time, because we're talking of two thousand and some of the companies that were in the privatisation process, to achieve everything well, to privatise, but the citizens get it, you won't believe 400,000 layoffs. They got a weaker standard of living. They didn't see any of it, and that's why you paid the price in the election. When we speak, given that the previous speaker is if we look at academic circles one of the most respected lawyers, I wouldn't underestimate it, but there are archaics when the DS government, I have to mention, and when some other government. Well, for example, Mirko Cvetkovic adopted a "lex specialis" in 2010. The government of Mirko Cvetkovic passed such a law with limited validity, the Law on the Encouragement of the Construction Industry under the terms of the economic crisis, the four thousand six-sixth apartment that today makes up Stepa Stepanovic's settlement. What's more important than this law, "ex specialis", which was done all the way out of competition. Now, what's the difference between this law that we're adopting today and the one that adopted Mirko Cvetkovic? At the time, it was all without competition, hidden from the public, under the pretext that social housing, which then cost 1,300 euros per square, I see nothing social here, is a strong price for any citizen of the Republic of Serbia, except for those who may have been in the party that adopted the law. This law allows us to gain an inflow of investment. The law adopted by Mirko Cvetkovic and all that was being built in Belgrade was out of the budget. They encouraged it, of course, by borrowing, by taking loans, which we are returning today. There are no loans here, people, this is 3.5 billion euros in investment through several stages. You have nothing to lose. You're talking about infrastructure. You say - 500m euros for expropriation, so it's a lie, 270m to 280m will cost everything with infrastructure, but we also have no "Begrad on water" unlike you, we want to do something for the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia. We want to do it. In 20 years, you couldn't get the sewers in. And it's no wonder you're constantly calling for the end of the 18th century and the beginning of the 19th century, because there was no sewerage network back then, but they had a vision of one day being introduced, and you didn't do it in the 21st century either. What do I mean? This project is not from credit, this project is a clean investment that will primarily lead to the completion of other projects, which the gentlemen failed, which is Prokop, which will finally end in the beginning of next year, to remove the bus station, to exploit the most attractive potential of our country. You, I don't know if it's possible to say – it's our country's greatest potential, but since it's potential we don't want to do anything about it, we want to keep it, we're here to cultivate weeds, we're fostering wrecks, that citizens can't even walk those paths in that area. So that's your policy. Our policy is the continued development of Serbia, Belgrade and Serbia, new jobs. Don't keep calling the law, you've been hiding it on every corner. After all, you didn't adopt them, but others wrote to you. They wrote to you those who, under these laws, gave themselves profit to the benefit of the citizens of Serbia, to the detriment of all of us, not to mention who they are, but to separate themselves and gain a lot of wealth, and now that someone wants to invest 3.5 billion euros, it bothers you. Why? Because it's a public interest, because that someone who says that money won't allow abuse. Because the easiest thing you could do was rob Serbian citizens, but you can't rob foreign investors. We've also seen problems around the Zemun-Borch Bridge. You're bragging about it. If it wasn't for the Chinese, that bridge would have cost two billion. That he asked the former mayor, and you were his closest associate. They wouldn't allow it. That's why you had your problems with your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25176	Mr. Jovicic, don't speak to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25177	I'm talking to you, Chairman. For SNS, public interest is above all else, but I don't like it, and I will never allow public interest to be called upon by those who have worked in the name of personal interest. That's perfectly clear to us. I repeat again – you did not have a problem with "Belgrade on Water", you had "Menhetn on Water", we saw nothing from him, but then you did not criticise him, you did not refer to the Constitution, you did not call for anything. I suppose this Manhattan would build someone who no longer in Serbia today has the privilege of depriveing himself of profits and creating wealth at the expense of Serbian citizens. You're in pain. You are supported by someone's interests to protect them, but for us there are only the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There are no interests of Miskovic or anyone else. Once again, this project is for Serbia a chance to develop, and if you have a problem with a man who pushes that project after 100 years and has come to the opportunity to implement it, jealousy is somewhere in the nature of a man, I understand that, but don't be jealous of Serbia if you're jealous of Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25178	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. The word has Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, so Mr. Bozovic, Mr. Babic, and Mrs. Vukomanovic. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25179	Thank you, Your Honor. First, to fight back, not for a compliment, but for what I mean. I have a lot of respect for Mr Selaković for one reason – he has graduated from the state college and is a good legal expert. I'm dissatisfied, of course, with his ministerial work, but I'm glad he graduated from the state college, he didn't take on master's and doctoral studies for a few days. However, Mr Selakovic, you have really regained my awareness when it comes to "Belgrade on Water". You said well that we know what is going to be built, that is, only expropriation is now being done, the public interest is being determined. Exactly, Mr. Selakovic, we have no pre-negotiation, no letter of intent, no contract, we have only one model and promise, a story, as the Prime Minister said - his dreams. You know what, Mr. Selakovic? Dreams also have 100,000 families who were promised to build socially cheap 378-euro apartments, and now they have nightmares because they don't know how to survive, or tie up the end. It's true, this is a path that we don't see the end of because it determines the public interest, it's created, according to stories, the possibility of a private company that has the founding capital of 100 dinars being able to build such an impressive project.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25180	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25181	I'm done. We'll invest in infrastructure and expropriation of our finished money, which, by the way, we don't have.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25182	I thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Mr. Selakovic, I would only ask you to finish the previous round of replicas, to give Mr. Bozovic, so you. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic. Replic, two minutes, to mention DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25183	Thank you, Chairman. The previous speaker had a chance to say what-what, to whom I'm replicating... (Alexander Jovicic, from the place: Who are you replicating to? )......................................................................................................... what-what about how Belgrade was run or how in some way...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25184	Please, Mr. Jovic, this is a replica of your exposure, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25185	... The government of the Republic of Serbia is treating its citizens today. I hold in my hand the 1974 contract between Branko Pesic as former mayor of Belgrade and "The Railways of Serbia". In this contract, Belgrade citizens paid 57% of Prokop, as investments between the city of Belgrade and then "The Railways". So, on the basis of this contract, the Belgrade citizens will pay Prokop, and in return they will be given the land of the Sava amphitheater, which until recently belonged to the Railways, and this contract has never been respected. Under this contract, citizens of Belgrade are the owners of 500m euros in the market value of the Sava amphitheater you give as the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the investor and you declare it a public interest. It's a shame, which is why someone will answer to the judicial authorities of this country. When we talked about this being a precedent, an investor who is a friend of the Prime Minister must know that every penny he invests is invested with a certain amount of legal uncertainty, because the Constitutional Court has been in its verdicts and so far taken into account this matter. This will fall in the Constitutional Court, and we will, of course, file a complaint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25186	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25187	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we're seeing the essence of the problem. It bothers someone that the Belgrade Urbanism Institute has created a model as an idea solution to the Sava amphitheater area - "Belgrade on Water", because someone who is used to making real-size models for us, to make us a 70 million dinar model in New Belgrade, to build a Podekin village called "New Terrace on New Belgrade", 70 million dinars. And nothing to anyone. And no one's responsible for that. He says we don't have a contract. Well, if we had a contract, we wouldn't have passed the law. If we had a contract based on the Expropriation Act, you'd file a contract, you'd have to establish a public interest, even beyond Article 1, where there are cases where public interest can be determined. It is said to give away 500m euros worth of land. Let's see if it's worth 500 million euros six, ten months ago, in the state in which you left it, in the state where you didn't, as the president said the other day, you couldn't take your hair to cut it, you bastard, to pick it up, to make the people who lived there a life and a decent life of a man in the 21st century. In a coast where there was nothing alive from garbage and from the cemetery ships you had to see, is that what you're talking about? As far as liability is concerned before the judicial authorities, go ahead. Anyone who does not act by law, and the laws are passed by the National Assembly, should also answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25188	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25189	Dear Chairman, I can't figure out what it means, what my colleague is wearing in the show and in the Assembly, some 1974 contract? Speaking of Branko Pesic, the best mayor in our country's recent history and the city of Belgrade, read a little bit more about him. Branko Pesic had a vision, he had dreams, which most likely you want to deny, because today's prime minister has similar dreams about Belgrade and Serbia in the coming period. Branko Pesic also built Mostar's loops and Gazela and the Terrasian tunnel. And then there were people who wanted to obstruct such projects because of political points. I don't know what it means to you when you say it - citizens are the owners of that part of Belgrade. No one has informed me that I own it. I don't know if you, the chairman, have been informed? If we're registered as owners, let's show up on time somewhere, but apparently my colleague is constantly calling that we, all citizens, are the owners of it. There's no concept right where all citizens are the owners of something. In communism, however, he existed. Now, the point is that the Republic has this part of our most attractive part of the city and potential, because you often call for potential, and in life you never knew how to use that potential. I'm not talking about personal potential, I leave it to you, but there are people who care about Serbia and Belgrade's potential and who want to continue the path of Branko Pesic and many others who have wanted to through history and seen a vision for Serbia, because Serbia finally has a chance to, with the help of friendship and good contacts in the world, which are primarily based on a good international policy that we are leading, on peaceful tones, on our country's development, peace and prosperity...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25190	Time, Mr. Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25191	... On this side, I conclude, I believe this project will support the citizens of Serbia and Belgrade and will finally bring economic recovery to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25192	Thank you. The word has Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25193	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry it took me a while, but I got information that was interesting to me. A short time ago, he led a controversy on the democraticity of parliament in this and in the previous assembly. I'll only tell you one piece of information. Since the adoption of this Rules of Procedure, in the first two months of the eighth term, from 2008 to 2012, in two months, MPs, including myself, have sought the right to replica 491 times. So 491 times in two months. Do you know, dear colleagues and colleagues, how much this democratic and democratic power at that time gave the right to replication? Fifty times. Every tenth time we somehow managed to break through and convince the chairman that the Rules of Procedure had been injured, or that we had the right to a replica, unlike now that the replica is thought of and the hand rises. Well, of course parliament is where it's being debated. So much for Parliament's practicality and respect for procedures. I am glad that this law shows the difference between policies that are led, policies that are in a violent way, and I see in the debate from a few days ago even threatens the street to bring such a policy back, and policies that are being implemented. I see that some MPs are in the public interest that the Belgrade Co-operation building should have remained the property of a drug addict, the acquisition site of people who do some dishonest work. I see that some in the public interest were that this building, one of the most beautiful buildings in Belgrade...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25194	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25195	I'm the one who picked up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25196	I was told it was a replica, so I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25197	I answered the amendment, but I'll end up in two sentences, if you'll excuse me. I'm glad someone thinks that this building should remain that way and that this is a public interest, as it was likely that 177 ha of the best land in the weeds, in the cemetery of ships, among the garrisons and among the unhygienic and where people lived in an inhuman and unsanitary way, was a public interest in the former regime. Not only was it their public interest, but they supported that public interest and they didn't even take their hair to clean up, let alone anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25198	Before we continue to work, I ask the MPs to focus as much as possible on the amendments. There's mostly a principle debate here. So, please, we have an amendment ahead of us, that's the current agenda point and I ask you to imitate your discussion in that sense. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25199	I agree with you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, in this amendment, our colleagues specifically suggested that the word in Article 1 be deleted. ‘public’. What if it's not public interest to regulate human rights laws? Because all expropriation procedures concern fundamental rights, not only property, but also life. Here, colleagues mentioned various provisions of other laws, but they also referred to the Constitution. In this response to me, I want to point out why it was necessary to pass, in fact it will be necessary to pass the law and why it is so formulated. In order to regulate the specific expropriation procedure for the same reason as some other members of the Constitution, such as Articles 75 and 76. Yesterday was the International Day for the Protection of Members of Roma Nationality and I would remind myself that the 2009 expropriation took place when the mayor of Belgrade, who belonged to the DS, and the opposition today largely belongs to the parent party, displaced members of Roma nationality in order to expropriate within three hours and bulldozers and buses. Amnesty International said in its report of 31 August 2009 that 200 homes had been destroyed within three hours, that 178 Roma families had been displaced, and 114 had received, as I say, forced accommodation in metal containers. I'd say that's exactly why it's necessary to regulate the law of a special expropriation procedure, so this kind of violation of human rights wouldn't happen. Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25200	Mr. Balsha, I don't see the basis for the replica. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: The mention is of DS and Mr Gilas, and you do not give me the right to a replica. ) If she mentioned DS, it was nothing offensive, but only explained how the party had handled it at the time. I don't see what's offensive about that. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: I have the right to the Rules of Procedure. ) Please, don't, we'll go on forever now. You have no right. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25201	I'd only ask if you could keep quiet. I had no intention at all to report for discussion, nor do I intend to do much to answer today. You know, there's a difference in the system of values, someone wants to make something out of their work, and someone's enjoying a match, mosquitoes, growth, etc. But when we talk about the public interest, you know, in 2000, we had a bunch of state-owned enterprises that had a public interest activity, so you were selling out into debauchery and didn't care much about the public interest then. You didn't care about the public interest. I don't know if it's in the public interest when someone gives a grant credit to vineyards, and today it calls for public interest. Speaking of which, it's certainly not a public interest, dear gentlemen, that we have an illegal construction, and in that part we've had as much of what you want to do in a period where you haven't done anything. It's not safe in the public interest to have prostitution. Excuse me, everyone living in Belgrade knows what's going on down there and how terrible it is. The public interest is to root it out. It's not in the public interest that we have all kinds of pickpockets down there, seciks, whatever you want, thieves of all kinds, but it's in the public interest that people are safe there. I'm sorry we want to do this to the people of Belgrade. I'm sorry you haven't done anything there in years. Well, at least you've cleaned up that no one can tell you anything right now, but on the contrary, you're out of that part of Belgrade, which must be the most beautiful dump you've made out of it. The only thing your public interest was there, it was a cemetery of wagons, a cemetery of ships, mosquitoes, snakes, growth, feces. I'm sorry, I don't want Belgrade going out on two rivers to be like that. As far as the public interest is concerned, I've served as speaker of the assembly in a state-owned company, which, by law, carries out a public-interest activity. Your authority made a decision at the government's telephone session, which was nightly, to sell the company's sales network by making a sublegal act, or regulation that changed the existing regulation. You were so interested in the public interest. You've been sublegal, not even allowed to come to the Assembly, but you've been sublegating the existing sublegal act to legalize the robbery and to sell something of public interest to a privateer who was close to you and by burying and destroying that company. Don't call on the public interest, you should be ashamed. The public interest is that it is the real Manhattan down there, that it is wonderful for the Belgraders, not to enjoy the smell, as you obviously wanted to enjoy the Belgraders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25202	The word is Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25203	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and chairing today's session, Mr Arsenovic, the Honored Ministers Vujovic and Selakovic and the Honored Guests, was injured by Article 104 and then by Article 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly when, Mr Arsenovic, you did not just give Mr Bozovic the right to reply. Before Mr Bozovic came forward, Mrs. Vukomanovic also mentioned a party whose official and MP Mr. Bozovic also mentioned the former mayor, who was also a member and MP of the same political party, DS. Mr. Becic established a practice this morning that when a party is mentioned, and the SNS has been mentioned, that always Mr. Babic or Mr. Jovic or Mr. Arsic have the right to replication, Mr. Arsenović. I think it is very important that all MPs in our National Assembly have equal treatment, Mr Arsenovic. This means that the rules and procedures, gentlemen, are in the same way related to all MPs, and not, Mr Arsenović, when mentioned by the SNS, Mr Babic, by nature of things, are immediately given the right to replication, and when the DS or the New Party is mentioned, then you just take your head and say, "No, no, no, no, you have no right to replication." Mr Arsenović, I ask you to respect my argument to say that you have made a mistake, and I do not ask you to give yourself a warning, but only to give Mr Bozovic the right to a replica, because it is obvious, Mr Arsenović, that in a concrete dialogue, Mr Bozovic has, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, the right to a replica, respected Mr Arsenović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25204	I know, Mr. Pavicevic, that you know I didn't make a mistake. You know very well, please, please, I can't copy anyone. I'm here and I'm my personality. Therefore, I cannot imitate Becic or Maja Gojkovic, nor ask for someone to imitate me, please. It is true that Diana Vukomanovic mentioned DS, but nothing offensive. I don't think, if something isn't offensive, you don't have the right to a replica. Don't, please. So, I'm saying that I used my right, according to the Rules of Procedure, to give someone the right to reply or not. So I haven't seen the basics at all. Therefore, I think I have acted on the Rules of Procedure, and it is your right to plead upon the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the Voting Day. Yeah. ) Now, according to the amendment, the People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25205	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, it is, according to the amendment, although I noticed that today there was some desire for certain colleagues to hear me on another basis, for now they won't. So, I'm against adopting this amendment, of course. I point to the fact that we are on the amendment that, in this recapitulation, which we call the popular opinion of the Government, is under number six, and everyone can consult the text of what is proposed. We have been talking here for a long time about the existence or lack of public interest, as it is determined, as it is valued, etc. And we're going to talk about it, I'm sure, all day long, because this is definitely going to be another day of debate in principle, unfortunately, and then we're going to talk about whether or not it's exactly the same as 200 years ago, if there's any justifications under different conditions, the basics, if there's any use for anyone outside of Belgrade. We're going to do this very detailedly today. Whoever read the Constitution, but it wasn't until the end, so he even managed to add some parts, and if he read it, he didn't understand it, we'll get rid of it if we have to, but let's deal with it specifically with what was proposed here. Was this legally misspelled? Is there some sort of intervention in Section 3, that doesn't exist? What are we talking about next? I suggest we move on to the next amendment, and as far as the public interest is concerned, we'll go over there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25206	Orlic, I support your proposal, it's only a matter of MPs. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment. I beg you, don't mention any other parties. You're talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25207	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just after the amendment, as the SPS parliamentary group does all the time, it is very clear and precise in determining everything that is both the draft law and what constitutes the essence of the amendment. However, here I will fully agree with the previous speaker, to ask the issue of the regulation of the amendments, because if what the term means is deleted, then it's unthinking itself entirely of the bill itself. If the essence and content of the law are thought out, then there's no need to discuss it, it's just enough to say that we're against the law. Secondly, one of the opposition representatives quoted Article 58(2) as saying: The constitution read it well, but with one inversion or replacement thesis, he made the wrong conclusion. It is true that property rights can be seized or restricted only in the public interest, established under the law, which is exactly the law we are discussing today. Because this is the law, the law that defines the right of public property, and then it is not seen, it is not clear how otherwise it could have been regulated, and that public property is bound exclusively by law and restriction through law. This is exactly what we are discussing today and what we are discussing, which absolutely respects the next definition of the same attitude, the same member of the Constitution where it is said that property rights can be taken away or restricted, but with a fee that cannot be lower than the market, which is what is already calculated or incorporated into the very text of the law. Therefore, in any case, we in the SPS parliamentary group allow both the professional public and the legal and constitutional justice and any other profession to be divided in this direction and that it can comment differently on what we are working on today. But we are confident that the only one who can answer the question whether it's constitutional or not, it's the Constitutional Court. We go to the belief that the law to be passed is a law that, as someone here said, does not derrogate, a pure insolent statement. The Constitution can't be decorated. The constitution may be damaged, but to be decorated, it's impossible. Therefore, we are not in favor of hurting the Constitution. We're in favour of respecting the Constitution. Accordingly, we believe, until the Constitutional Court gives its assessment, that this is something that implies a legitimate and legal way of regulating the rights in the process of expropriation, procedural solutions in the process of expropriation and what is most important, we stand firm at the point that the only one who can be a user of expropriation is the state, or the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25208	According to the amendment, MP Marko Djurisic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25209	The fact is that all our amendments have this intervention to delete the word "public" because we believe that there is no valid argument to declare public interest Project "Belgrade on Water" and we will repeat that until the end of this debate. It's our right, as is your right to convince us that it exists. You failed to convince us. If you succeed, we will give up the debate, to explain to us where the public interest of Leban, the resident of Kursumlia, the resident of Somboro, is to pass one of these laws. Where is it their interest to give out of the Republic of Serbia's budget 40m euros to buy 5% of the land under this law? If you want to realize this project, give the investor some of the owners of those 5% insignificant, maybe it's less, buy that country because you said – there will be maybe some schools, roads. Nobody knows that today, because we have a model, a model where you don't know what's what. Where are those schools and kindergartens standing here? Where exactly are those green areas? Is it private property or property already owned by the Republic of Serbia? That's the problem with this. That's why we're against this, and we're using everything we can to convince you not to vote on such a harmful law. Yeah, we made a mistake writing this amendment. We've put an intervention in paragraph 3 that doesn't exist in this article, but who's doing it and doing it wrong. We're not ashamed of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25210	Thank you. By amendment Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if there is a public interest, I think it exists. That interest is next, Serbia has lost too much time. She lost too much time because the last 12, 13 years, i.e. by 2012, were managed by people who took the least care of Serbia. I can't get mad at what they couldn't do, but let's just say, that part of the city is being arranged, the move of the train station for the Prokop station project, which will be used by all Serbian citizens, so far has spent $700m, and that's not meant to be brought in. That 700 million dollars we're still paying off today. Are we still going to pay them off without having any of them? We're talking about whether or not someone will exploit it privately. Probably will. Are we all going to benefit from that? I'm absolutely sure. Do we have the money to implement this project ourselves? We don't. Are there laws that regulate private public interest? There are. They were the only ones who had been given so far that we were doing something, that we had no use for it, and that he had the one we were working for. We're always ready from the SNS to discuss all the problems. But I think that the "Belgrade on Water" project should create a new image of both the Republic of Serbia and our Belgrade as the capital, which, of course, is loved by the Belgraders most, but do not forbid us to love it too, because when it is good in Belgrade, there will be good inland. Or we'll swear to defend someone's interest in Serbia and we didn't defend it while we were in power, as the MPs of the former regime do. Or we'll swear to defend the interest of the city of Belgrade and we didn't defend it while we were in power, as the MPs of the former regime do. We don't need their oaths. We and their results don't need what we've had in the last 12, 13 years. Let them praise their results, but for those poor results, such as that mockery that exists in Belgrade on the Sava coast, also a good part in the last 12 years, by 2012, or their result. We will not accept that result, and we want to change it to be a completely different picture that Belgrade is sending as a Serbian capital into the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25212	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I agree with you, but we must take care of what the amendment's proposings say when they explain the amendment. You know, we've been talking about this amendment for a long time, there's been a word in the principle debate, no one's answered that, but here's what we're saying in the explanation of the amendments, any of the one proposing, how we're actually doing this whole job to get a friend there, a sheik, a prince, president of the government to get a job in Belgrade, which is completely pointless. So this is about the Expropriation Act and it's about that again. But thank God that Serbia has a Prime Minister who has respected businessmen in the world, statesmen, princes, sheiks, king's friends, who is not a friend of someone who runs a drug clan, such as Darko Saric, who invested in Serbia's drug money between 2008 and 2012. Bought "Mitros-Srem", he received guarantees from Metalsbank and loans that were subsequently converted into "Vojvodina Development Bank". So is it better to have a Darko Saric drug clan for investors, or is it better to have serious investors in the world? It was said, imagine, that he did not have past investments, did not make investments in Syria in Iraq, that same investor. Seriously? And who gives legal certainty to that investor ISIL-Islam State to invest there? What are you two days talking about? So a serious investor needs Serbia at every square metre, in every city. I come from Smederev, where we should make "Belgrade on Water", so we should also build Smederevo on the Danube. Because who was, and I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to say that in the principle debate, to see that there's a railroad between Smederev and the Danube, that there's also a train station between Smederev and the Fortress, that there's an old port with a broken-down crane and no one put it away. As much as we're trying to fail because of some who are from 2008 to 2012, it's all stalled. Instead of removing it all, we arrange, as well as the Sava amphitheater, to open Europe's largest fortress of plains for visitors to build a port for tourist ships and so on and that the city is also benefiting. This is a good example for other cities. I gave you an example, we have a Sava amphitheater, "Belgrade on Water", and then we can work other cities on the Danube and Sava, and maybe even when we set a good example this way. It's a developmental opportunity, it's the modernisation of Serbia, and it's not a story about whether we're going to keep 177 hectares of the country next to the Sava in downtown Belgrade trapped, be careful with some 1974 paper. Sir, social property has been abolished, the Constitution, if you're not informed. It is not European value, as someone here does not know, that European integration and visa liberalisation have nothing to do with each other. Romania and Bulgaria are members of the EU so they are not in Schengen, and then states who finished it, it was on its way to the EU. No, you didn't do anything. It was an SAA, signed by Boza Djelic, and until we got the candidate status, she only got the next power, you didn't do anything. Like you didn't do anything in the Sava amphitheater. That's why it takes "Beograd on water" and that's why we need to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25214	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will make an appeal, one application on behalf of the SNS, begging you not to share and do not argue with Serbia. Don't argue with Belgrade with the rest of Serbia. There's been a lot of division. There's been a split over your head. There's been a lot of division that's surrounded by some rivers. A lot of people who lived and lived in Vojvodina were considered autonomists by others somehow different. There's a few of us. We have little Serbia to share it further. Don't argue with the rest of Serbia with Belgrade. I know that's funny to you. I know you're glad there's something going on in the street when something's on fire and it's breaking. We're not gonna let that sort of thing happen. There was too much fight in our society. Too many short views between Belgrade and Novi Sad, now between Belgrade and the rest of Serbia. Here I come and I was born in a small town in central Serbia, I believe most of you know because you're my friends, my bankers, the Royals, the Pazars, the Krushevians, the Triesteans, they see interest because they're going to work in Belgrade. There are many good craftsmen, good men, good builders, they will find bread here. They will be employed here, and even those who will not be employed see the interest of seeing in Belgrade and their capital and their capital a world metropolis, not snakes. Don't argue like God, please. There's a hand, we'll never pull it back. The hand is in the air, provided on our side. Come, help, control after all. You can see that all your doubts and fears won't come true and get your head out of political hatred once, and your hands out of your pockets and start working. You work with us. If we build, and I believe we will build an object just as it is on that map that you can look at in the Belgrade cooperative building and you will see both schools and kindergartens and you will see the Sava promenade of a mile and 800 meters and you will see the central park. Won't you be happy to participate in all this? If nothing else, if you don't roll up your sleeves and like the Prime Minister said, and at least cut down one ar, control it, participate in it, because who cares that 177 acres of our country, wherever it is, stays in the snakehouse. They stay in the state they've been watching her for generations. Help, control, be a part of it, and as a god, please, one more time, and I will do it every time, don't argue with Serbia, because this hall is Serbia in small. This hall is both Subotica and Vranje and Belgrade and Novi Sad and Šabac and Kraljeno and Nis and Vranje and many other cities and municipalities, I didn't mention them and I don't believe I could mention everything. Don't argue and don't share, too many divisions and debauchery and suffering and fighting for the last 20 years. Don't leave messages like that. This is a project, this is a construction, this is a place where everyone's interests are intertwined, and we're all going to get a new, modern, worldly, European Belgrade. Don't look at those tall buildings, those modern buildings, don't look at them on postcards, rarely who can go to Dubai and see, and I didn't get a chance and I'm sorry. I don't have the resources, I can't afford it. I don't want to see buildings like that and cities like that in the world. I want to see them in Serbia, I want to see them in Belgrade, I want to see them here in my country, and why is that scary? Why it's so scary to dream, why it's so scary to roll up your sleeves and make a place like that in Serbia. Why would it be better for a manager, a cemetery of ships, cars, to be worth it? Let's work on it together, let's make sense, all of us, close our hands and put together everything we can and can. If you don't want to work, and I know it's a hateful thing to do, because it's so much nicer to sit in an official car, throw out a couple of tweets, have a coffee, make a combination, go to a bar, come here for 15 minutes and say, uh, what I told them. But I'm telling you, if you don't want to work, come at least control it, because we don't care about some port or some MM, there are them in Serbia and they're more on the Ustasha Street than they are in the Sava amphitheatre. We are interested in a new, modern, global, European Belgrade, new modern European world Serbia. That's what we're working on. Don't share Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25216	After the amendment, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25217	I was looking for a replica? I asked for a replica of Mr. Babic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25218	He didn't mention you at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25219	So you're not giving me the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25220	I don't see any basis for replication at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25221	Then I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25222	He didn't mention you personally or the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25223	Mr. Arsenovicu, then I apologize to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25224	Don't apologize to me. I was just following the course of the session well. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. The word has Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25225	Thank you. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary of Finance came out. So on Article 1, I have submitted an amendment to agree with the previous amendment that has already been accepted, so that the word "building" is deleted. I have repeatedly explained why it is necessary to delete the word "building" from the name of the law, from Article 1 of the Law. I admit that I made a technical mistake and added Article 3 which does not exist in this article, so it was also the basis for the refusal of amendments, but the Financial Committee in this text, as the first part of my amendment reads, so Article 1 paragraph 1 of the word "building" is deleted, proposed and I expect that this amendment will be adopted, so that Article 1 of the Law will be in line with the Law on Planning and Construction, and also with the name of the law we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25226	The Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 1. I ask Minister Selakovic to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25227	Thank you. The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25228	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Vladimir Pavićevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25229	I see that there is great anxiety, as a result of what is obviously now part of the ruling coalition, that this law, in fact, the government is trying to wash its hands and that what is in its jurisdiction, knowing that it is doing something that is neither for the benefit nor for the benefit of this state nor for the people, to transfer that responsibility to the ruling majority. I see he's a smarter part of those MPs, or he didn't come to the session. Article 2 says there is a public interest in expropriating immovableity in the purpose of bringing the land to "Belgrade on Water", to paraphrase. Otherwise, under the Expropriation Act, public interest can be established for building facilities in the fields of education, health, social protection, culture, water economy, sport, traffic, energy and municipal infrastructure facilities for the needs of state authorities and authorities of territorial and local self-government, facilities for the needs of the country's defence, as well as for the construction of apartments, but which address the housing needs of socially endangered persons. The public interest can also be established for the exploitation of mineral raw materials for the protection of the environment, etc. Nowhere mentions the possibilities, not even the possibility, one or more of them to establish a public interest in something where commercial content should be built, such as apartments, pencils, cafes, and whatever else there is to be built. Public interest cannot be established in the construction of housing or business space. That doesn't make sense. The owners of this residential or business area after the completion of the construction will become some natural or legal person, privately owned, and thus at one point private property is transferred to a level of public interest and public ownership, only to be sold under favourable conditions to someone else, and this is not in accordance with the law or the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25230	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vice-President of the Assembly Mr Arsenović, the respected Minister Selakovic, the respected Minister of Justice, is one of the key problems that you have just come from the field and scientific and practical that you are dealing with, Mr Selakovic. The main problem with this bill is that the Constitution is being violated for private interest. Mr Selakovic, this is what Mr Janko Veselinović and Marko Djurisic argued in a convincing way here today, I have not heard the argument on the contrary to this problem. Mr Vujovicu, finance ministers, expropriation is always being carried out for a pre-defined project of public interest envisaged by the regulatory plan. I have not heard any comment from you, an argument in relation to this problem concerning this bill that I think I have today spoken convincingly of one of the MPs, MP Balša Bozovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to imagine once again on all the major problems we have recorded here and during the debate and before on this bill. Can't, gentlemen, I mean on behalf of nothing, in the name of nothing to confiscate property so it sells to private persons, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Who's selling? Where does it say? We must not allow the principle of rule of law to be brought down here, dear gentlemen and Mr. Babic to hear, as I see him speak more than he hears, to destroy the principle of rule of law and to disturb the sense of justice among all the citizens of our Republic, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25232	Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. Mr. Granny, were you looking for a replica? I don't see the basis. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Very pervasive to speak more than I listen to. Rules of Procedure. You can do it by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25233	Article 107, Mr. Chairman, the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, I am not injured, and I have no problem. I experienced here that Mr. Pavicevic and Zivkovic and Sutanovac, called me different names, but of course it spoke much more about them than it does about me. The most important procedure for every MP, including Mr Pavicevic, is to tell the truth. The truth is a sublime procedure to be followed and it is a good thing that a MP who does not adhere to it is not a nod. Where does it say sales? Where does it say sales, dear Mr. Pavicevic? Don't use something that isn't true in the theatre of performance, in the interest of how you interpret some amendment. Where does it say the truth? Respect the procedure and you, Mr. Chairman, because from every MP of the people, you will take some things that are not written in law, and this does not appear in law, procedure and truth. The truth is an executive procedure, Mr. Chairman, only the truth I ask of you and other MPs, especially Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25234	Please, allow me, I have the right to respond to Mr. Babic. I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I find it necessary to use the truth, but according to the Rules of Procedure, it has not been established that I determine who is telling the truth or not. Therefore, I believe there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. As far as the truth is concerned, I guess that's how much everyone can figure out who's telling the truth and who's not. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I am mentioned. You can't, please. Mr. Babic had a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I didn't know. You have no right to do so. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. I beg you, since he's a minister, but he's right, Mr. Minister's advantage, there's a breach of the Rules of Procedure ahead. I'll delete the list. Please sign in again. Here you go, Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Arsenovic, Honored Ministers Selakovic and Vujovic and the Honored Guests, one has now remained from the ministry, Mr Arsenovic, Mr Babic, just reported a violation of the Rules of Procedure and I am now advertising the violation of the member of our Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25236	Why are you calling Granny?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25237	Because you hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25238	So talk about me, please. You're talking about me, not Grandma.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25239	To describe how there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 103, Mr Babic reported that he was intervened by the violation of the Rules of Procedure 107, and instead of explaining here that the member, Mr Arsenovic, was injured, Mr Babic used that time to replicate me and you in just one sentence to resent something. For what? Something I've talked about before, and what the facts are, gentlemen. Mr Arsenović, it was not your obligation to ask Mr Babic if he wanted us to make a statement to all the MPs in the day to vote on this breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it was your obligation to record, to agree, to go to the stenogram that Mr Babic had reported to the Rules of Procedure, to abuse the Rules of Procedure and to give him a warning measure, which would mean to Mr Babic that the next time he misused the Rules of Procedure might be in a position to place himself as the chairman of the Administrative Board as a single item of the agenda, because it is possible to receive a warning and on the basis of that notice pay as I wrongly paid. Nearly 7,000 dinars, Your Honor, Mr. Arsenovic, for I fight here for the dignity of the National Assembly and for the great principles of our Constitution, the rule of law and justice, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25240	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic, for your advice. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Penalty for what I seek the truth? What about the procedure? What are you telling the truth? ) Please, I ask the Members of Parliament to respect the Rules of Procedure and this Assembly, do not throw it out of place, you know that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pavicevic, I can't, I don't have the telepathic powers to know in advance what anyone will say. First, I need to hear from someone, as I heard from you, and so did Mr. Babic. So, I don't see at all, I told Mr. Babic that I couldn't exorcise the truth here, he insisted on the truth, thought it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was his vision, so I think there was no harm to the Rules of Procedure, and your right to plead in the day of the vote. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. ( ) Yes, so in the voting day we will decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25241	Thank you. Since I think the people who are tracking this transmission are changing and even the partial composition here in the Assembly is changing, I'm going to have to repeat some answers. So I repeat once again, based on what is written in the law and specific reasons, it is clearly defined who is the user of expropriation, that is the Republic of Serbia and that is the City of Belgrade for Public Areas. That's what it says in Article 4. If someone doesn't tear down Article 4, then we'll talk about breaking the law. It's the law we're discussing. So here it says, Article 4, once again, since you're talking about content, I'm now talking about the last discussion that was here, about what the purpose of expropriation was, I repeat, it's defined, the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade are users of expropriation and they have all the rights, obligations and responsibilities of expropriation users provided for in this law. Secondly, you said there was no basis for using it. I point out the reasoning of this law, a paragraph on the other side which explicitly states that it is defined by a spatial plan of a specific purpose which will be further called "Belgrade on Water", and it was adopted and entered into force on 31 January 2015, all in accordance with the law, that I am not now bothering people, precisely about the members of the law on which it was founded and the decision on which it was based. You have the right to dispute it, but you have no right to overlook it in a public debate here. So it's written, it's basic, it's users of privatisation, or here's expropriation. Therefore, we know exactly who will have the right and responsibilities under the law. You might have been able to suggest a way to track it in realisation to ensure that purpose. You have the right to slow down or add to the specific purpose plan elsewhere and beyond this law, but it is clearly defined in the law and the reasoning of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25242	I apologize to Aleksandra Tomic for not giving her my word for hurting the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25243	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I advertised an article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Because it has simply become as normal somewhere that MPs can insult the ruling party's MPs, citing the fact that they are not present are smart, and those who are in the O.R. are likely to be the opposite. So what conclusion do we come to? That you were supposed to react at that point, and to the second conclusion that those who are not present, because we see here that a few of the opposition parties are actually the smart ones who will support this law. So, I think it was really on your side that you probably failed to respond to Mr. Zivkovic's words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25244	Alexandra, I can only tell you that I didn't, I missed it, but I fully agree with you and I insist that we have the dignity to respect each other, to respect each other, and that all differences can be brought out in one cultural way, I think that's possible, but unfortunately, that's the situation. Would you like us to come forward on voter day? (No) Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Let's see. National MP Zoran Zivkovic asked for first. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Marco asked for first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25245	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe you've injured Article 103. The MP shall have the right to orally point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure made at the session of the National Assembly that is under way, and immediately after the injury has been done. So, a previous colleague came forward and advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure to an exposure that was not immediately prior to her announcement. It was a long time ago. Please let us all be focused, that the infringements of the Rules of Procedure are indicated the moment it was made, that on them, those who do so, be it word or not at the time as it is provided for by the Rules of Procedure and then be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to assess whether or not the Rules of Procedure are injured. I can also report for things like this, where I think the Rules of Procedure has been hurt, which have been spoken in the past two hours, but this Rules of Procedure makes it impossible for me to do so, and that is why I'm sitting here, following the discussion, and when it hurts some Rules of Procedure, as you have now hurt, because you've given someone who's not willing to talk about the injury of a Rules of Procedure that hasn't been done directly, then I have to report to you and to show you that you've hurt the Rules of Procedure and that, I don't know either, we extend this work to late night or probably even tomorrow. Since I believe that this is not in our interest, that we want to finish this work today, I am asking you not to hold the presidency now, it has been amended by the chairman, that whoever is chairing is concentrated and monitoring who, when, how and why reports of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25246	Thank you. I know for a fact that the president made his mistake, not on purpose, confessed and apologized. There is no need for you to keep the work of parliament and work long to night by repeating something, and the chairman apologized.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25247	Not until after my intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25248	If I told you something, if I asked the MPs to be as focused as the chairman, they'd work much better.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25249	So after my intervention, the chairman said he was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25250	So don't let this parliament turn today's work into criticism of the president and the chairman. I won't let that happen. Today's chairman leads well, regardless of who he was, Igor Bečić or, in this case, my Vice President Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25251	We're not here for the president. We're here for the law, not to appreciate the work of the chairmanship.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25252	Don't throw it away. You make us work long nights, because you can't control your temperament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25253	I'm not throwing. I'm just saying what's the agenda and what we need to talk about today. It is a law, a harmful law for Serbian citizens, not the work of the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25254	You're being disastrous. You're humiliating the entire parliament with your inappropriate behavior and throwing it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25255	Don't use words like that, or that my words are inappropriate, or that you humiliate anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25256	I ask you to keep these manners for free time with your friends without violating Parliament's dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25257	I like being with my friends. I'm at work today, and I'm talking about a harmful law, not the work of the chairman. I didn't come here to talk about the work of the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25258	I think it's all a matter of education, and we're all in late years, except for a few colleagues and colleagues, so it's too late for education, as far as hurting the Rules of Procedure is concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25259	Please don't tell me if I should or shouldn't educate myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25260	You want to let your colleague Zivkovic get his word or you'll still have...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25261	I don't give a word. I can't take anyone away or give a word to anyone. It's the president's job.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25262	I give you a warning of inappropriate conduct in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25263	In what way? By what member? I beg you now, by which member do I behave inappropriately?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25264	By the Rules of Procedure and by the time you study it. And you can, I'll take it in writing...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25265	By what member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25266	I'm giving you another warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25267	By what member of the Rules of Procedure? What am I doing now? What am I doing right now? What am I breaking the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25268	You're humiliating dignity...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25269	In what way? I'm sitting in a bench and nothing offensive, I haven't told anyone about anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25270	You're mobbing over 249 MPs who want to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25271	Don't, I don't call anybody here. That's what you do, Mr. President. It's a good thing this is being transmitted so everyone can see how you run the session. So, I didn't insult anyone with any single word, I didn't do anything against the Rules of Procedure, because if I did, you'd say which member of the Rules of Procedure I hurt and why you gave me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25272	You don't have a word, you talk all the time. Any conscious man would understand what this is about, but I don't have time for you, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25273	I'm not talking, I'm sitting in a bench doing nothing that's against the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25274	I don't have time, really. I'm going to shut you down so you don't go any further. I will ask the chairman of the Committee on Administrative Affairs to consider that financial penalties, which have no effect, are substitutes for socio-helpful work. I think it would be very useful for Members of Parliament who are constantly being punished, and there are not many if they help citizens of Serbia and their cities. That would be very useful and I'll do it in writing. I hope you'll accept. Thank you. We will not then have any objections that MPs will pay 7,000 dinars, but will only be able to attend sessions, but will also work socially useful for the benefit of citizens. I thank you for your understanding. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I apologize deeply for waiting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25275	That you should apologize, you should, because they're injured. 108th and 109th.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25276	I'm just asking you to speak in the microphone, so it doesn't turn out that I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25277	Art. 108 and 109 were injured. Your predecessor, who led, injured 108th, who said that the president or chairman of the Order was taking office at the National Assembly session. MP Tomic, if I'm not mistaken, knowing it's too late to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, has come forward. The president knew it or didn't know it. If he didn't know, it's no excuse, because he couldn't give her a word. By giving him a part in disrupting the order at the session. You injured a member of 109 because you gave two warnings to a MP who sat in a bench and said something. What he was wearing was your fault, not his. We can communicate with each other when the microphone isn't on and you can't forbid it. So none of your warnings make any sense. Finally, you have injured a member of 108 again, by your reporting on how the MP should behave, how Parliament should behave, how socially beneficial work should be done. Who gives you the right to do that? What are you in this House to do with anyone? What have you done in your life to rise above any MP? Finally, I said – smarter MPs of the majority. It doesn't mean that these others are stupid, but that they're smart, smarter, and smarter. You had a chance to be the smartest, but of course you missed it. I'm asking you to vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25278	I thank Ambassador Zivkovic. I want to answer you. My right and my duty under the Rules of Procedure that you all call upon is to answer you. What I'm going to do, but I have to, for once, I'd keep my mouth shut, because sometimes silence is a lot more than words said. Therefore, neither Article 108 nor Article 109. First, the same violation of the Rules of Procedure as your colleague's bid. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Not true, he is 103.) I mean the contents. Now you're throwing too, but I'm glad we're going on a direct transmission and that the cameras as far as I know are zealously showing those who earn without a word, they're yelling at the chairman. I'm not afraid of much, I can take it, and thank you for saying it, I haven't done anything in my life, I accept it. I accept by measuring with the MPs who say that to me, I accept that I have done absolutely nothing. If we're calling for an aging order, then yes, the president has to take care of the order. Now, to fulfill that wish, we will vote, of course. I am now determining a regular break of an hour, because I cannot, for an hour, everyone will have time to think about order or disorder in this House. My right as other MPs to propose. So you can't deny me the right to suggest something. I'm in the same position as the other MPs, so community service is a proposal. [[After a break.]] Ask the minister, maybe he's behind the door, to enter the O.R. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25280	Rules of Procedure. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, I believe that you have injured Article 27 and Article 109 by making two warnings to MP Mark Djurisic and I will try to speak without emotion by taking the example of those who have gone to the steps of forced labour were raised heads. But you gave Mark Djurisic two measures of caution to your colleague by applying Article 109. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, although he did not in any way harm the Rules of Procedure, did not take any of these activities. Neither did he approach the speaker without permission, nor did he speak before he asked and received his word and who, in addition to warning the president of the National Assembly, spoke of a question that was not on the agenda. So, none of that. The only thing that happened was that after your time for a colleague, Djurisic, you did not turn off the microphone. A fellow Djurisic, like all MPs in the National Assembly, commented, spoke to me and he could not have known and knew that the microphone was involved, and you therefore gave him a warning, although in any way he did not offend any MPs, no MP group, although he did not do anything that some MPs did, and they were not given any warning measures. On the other hand, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have threatened us with measures of forced labour...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25281	Socially useful work. You're a lawyer, as far as I can tell.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25282	... Socially useful work. After yesterday's, that's the switchboards -- arrest them all, this is the next step.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25283	Thank you. It's been a while. I'll answer you now. Be kind enough to sit down. Article 109(2) - who spoke before he asked and got the word. He didn't ask for a word, he talked all the time. Turning on and off the microphone, there is no obligation in the Rules of Procedure to turn off the microphone. Therefore, I do not see what any offense or breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed. We're in direct transmission. Therefore, no one should be disturbed. We're all in Parliament here. We speak or do not speak for three minutes, five, ten, fifteen and twenty, and we must act equally politely to this home in which we have found ourselves at the will of the citizens of Serbia. So we are not only bound by polite and disciplined behavior as we give a speech on the subject, but also when we sit down. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What did he say? Don't throw it away now. You didn't ask, nor did you get a word from the President of Parliament. This parliament has no problems with 250 MPs. This parliament and MPs who regularly receive fines according to the Rules of Procedure, have only two or three. Therefore, do not say that the entire parliament is in trouble because of possible sentences. I ask you as a professor at one of the law schools in our country not to tell the lie in this House and not to involve forced labour in any way with community service. On every exam, a student would get five for this, if not four. Socially beneficial work is my proposal and will remain my proposal and will define it in writing to the Committee president because I want to adopt the objections of individual Members, two, three, that they cannot pay the penalties from their receipts. We have big salaries, but good. It is the same right of MPs and will be allowed to do so in another way, to carry out our punishment then by working in the gerontological centres, with children, for example, with children with special needs or in favour of the social environment in which they live and work. I don't see anything controversial about it because a lot of people are reporting in this country to be volunteers. If you do, you will pay the fine. You will find it a humiliation for an MP to do something useful for his environment. I report that whenever possible, I do community service, and I would like to work with children with special needs and at the gerontological center. There was a speech on the subject today. One of the MPs complained that 7,000 were too much for his behavior, for words – cattle, garbage and so forth, so that he would be allowed to replace the penalty for something much, much more useful. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure to respond to any breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let me explain right now. It doesn't exist. If you want an explanation for the punishment, I gave it to you and the public of Serbia saw it. If you want to explain why I didn't give the sentence the day before yesterday when a terrible curse was spoken here by the same MP, just because I wanted to finish the session in a more appropriate way and you can see about the conduct of the MPs and if you take a stenogram, a press conference for one of the vice-presidents of parliament was held just now, so please inform yourself. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, Vladimir Pavicevic. (Janko Vesenovic, from the post: You did not ask me if I wanted to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? ) That is understood. Here you go. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: Yes, I want to vote. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Ministers, Vujović, Selakovic, I see that reinforcements have arrived, Mr Udovic and the Honored Guests, I believe that they are injured right now, respected presidents, members of 27 and 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because you have argued why the Rules of Procedure, the Honored Presidents of the National Assembly, have announced that we do not have problems with 250 MPs, but with several MPs who give the measures of caution, on the basis of which these MPs pay fines. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I am one of the MPs who has been given a warning measure, respected presidents of the National Assembly. I paid for it almost 7,000 dinars once. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, I have never said a word of insult to anyone at any session of our National Assembly. I've always referred to some big principles, our constitution, for example. On the principle of rule of law. I have always called for dialogue, for discussion, for the idea that we all participate in the laws we adopt being the best possible. I've never hurt the dignity of the National Assembly. Then you, the Honorable President, said earlier that the Assembly, for example, had problems with me. I beg you, if it is determined that you have said so, and I have listened, just to tell me whether you remain in it or if you feel that you have made a mistake in making such an assessment. Admitting it was wrong was a good thing. I call upon you to accept that you have made a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25285	I've confessed more than once that I've made a mistake. I didn't do anything wrong this time, since I didn't even mention your name. As you've recognized yourself, I don't already know, it's a matter of self-analysis or I don't know what to call it, but don't censor my answers. And I say punishment, not in the opposite direction. You know, in response there can be no breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's quite unusual. But let's see how the obstruction continues. Here you go, the word is Marko Djurisic. Excuse me, MP, do you want to vote? (No) I thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25286	President-in-Office, I believe that you have injured article 100, which says the chairman, or president of the Assembly, if he wishes to participate in the search, leaves the presidency to one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. You were talking about me earlier, I guess, when you said I used some expressions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25287	You said it, I guess. So, I didn't talk about you, to cut this rape to the assembly. I wasn't talking about you. So, it's groundless.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25288	You said the MP who was told the warning said something two days ago. Since you told me today...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25289	Please, when we find out, let's get back to the subject. So, the speech is up to two minutes, we can cut it short, not harass the Assembly. Obstructions can be done in some other way. So, don't talk about recognition, don't make me expect Marko Atlagic to stand up and he thinks he's mentioned. Thank you, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25290	If I can finish this explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25291	I wouldn't in your case say another sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25292	I'd just like to exercise my right to explain what a violation of the Rules of Procedure is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25293	In two minutes, that's what it says. So it can be shorter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25294	But it's not you who can cut it short.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25295	And who's that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25296	I don't know who he is, but the Rules of Procedure don't give you that right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25297	The Rules of Procedure gave me that right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25298	Just tell me which member gave you the right to shorten my two-minute discussion for me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25299	Thank you. I don't want to go into the discussion and say I'm violating the members of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25300	No, I'm just asking you to tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure gives you that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25301	Thank you. Here, I'll turn it off, so we don't go into direct transmissions and the viewers don't listen to everything. Thank you. So the abuses of the Rules of Procedure will not be used in this House. Let's make that clear to everyone. You'll have to look for a new president of parliament. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, GoranBogdanović, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25302	Two proposals are contained in this amendment. One in line with what we talked about this morning, to leave out the word - public, because I hope, Mr Selakovic and Mr Vujovic found today during the discussion that there is no public interest here, that there is only a personal interest and commercial interest of a potential investor, for whom there will be no public call, but it will be because he is in good relations with Prime Minister Vukic, and this investor is in good relations with some sheik. Can we move on and realize there's no public interest? If we find that there is no public interest, we have proposed in this amendment what should be built in this area. So we suggested that there should be the IT sector centre, new technologies for development, technological development, where young people who are leaving the country now would be employed and where they would create new jobs in one of the most beautiful places, if it were arranged, with the funds of foreign investors after a public call. So, the IT sector and that industry, it's not an industry that's, say, sewing laundry or some other material, it's the future sector, the 21st century sector, and that area, in our opinion, should be the center of it. It would not architecturally endanger Belgrade or Serbia, it would neither destroy Serbia economically and would benefit the citizens of Serbia. Let's talk about it. When could we talk about it? Never. This law has arrived in the procedure of an emergency procedure, we have received another 10 days, but the public debate, unfortunately, was not and we could not say this anywhere, and you have not accepted this amendment, which means that you are staying where to build shopping malls, to build housing units there and to build catering facilities there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25303	For the sake of the public, let me just say, the law isn't on the agenda by an emergency procedure. He's been here more than three weeks. This is just for the public's sake. Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25304	Thank you. Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you violated Article 108, for the simple reason that I was in the word system as an authorised representative of the MP's club for the amendment of the DS, which Mr Arsenovic read before you entered the hall. You didn't give me your word, because in the meantime you ruled out all MPs the right to be in the system. I answered. I can't keep focusing. You have forbidden me to speak of my amendment and have moved on to the next amendment. I don't think it really makes any sense and that this is just talking about how this congregation has turned into something that doesn't suit it. If you have anything to say to me on that subject, you can go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25305	I have nothing to say on any subject you've just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25306	So you're just not letting me talk about my amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25307	You say you're not focused today on Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25308	No, you're nervous and unfocused. I've tried to log in several times and the system either doesn't work or you're shutting it down. I can't accuse you, I'm sorry, I have no intention. But obviously something's not working. The Rules of Procedure do not respect themselves. I wanted and was in the O.R. with Mr. Nikolic, as a colleague. We both wanted to talk about the amendment to Article 2. You've moved on to the next amendment, completely without any explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25309	Are you done now? Can I say something or do you think my participation is unnecessary?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25310	Go ahead and say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25311	Would you like to sit down? I can turn off your microphone, because you're asking me to turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25312	I can do it myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25313	Here, a colleague can turn off the microphone on his own. Let's teach the others who want us to do it during the session. Thank you. That's what I wanted. Thank you for helping me. I ask that Vesna Marjanović not throw away - terrible. I ask MP Balša Bozovic not to throw – shame. Now I will answer if a few MPs allow me to do my job today. If not, it's not a problem again. I may not be doing my job, but the sessions will be and MPs will work, those who want to work. Someone doesn't want to. Someone wants us to make something out of this House that's really inappropriate. I can't give a word to someone who's not in the system. If you've been in the system, it can be proven. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic throws – yes, I did, although he did not ask and he did not get the word. This session was conducted by Gordana Komic and I will try to be similar, so that the sessions will somehow lead to their course, the only one who has not allowed you to debate. The debate under the amendment that we had been through lasted more than an hour and was all about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. You can talk to your colleagues at some break if they want to give you some time and discuss specific amendments. Thank you. Who answered after the amendment? I'll give the Minister a word, just to sum it up. Dr. Marko Atlagic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25314	Dear Madam President, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic, the distinguished and very respected Mr. Selakovic, Mr. Udovic, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is my turn to return to the amendments to this very important and important law. Before I look back on this "wipe" about the public interest, but also the entire amendment, which means "wipe" and that other member, one part of the MPs who asked for the whole law to be deleted, allow, for the sake of truth and for the sake of justice in this House of Members of the People, this morning when we were here, a respected MP, a professor, mentioned my smallness by throwing my fellow Members out of the opposition. He wasn't telling the truth, he was lying. The opposition MPs can also confirm that I have neither stood up nor spoken a single word. It's not academically congratulating or civicly responsible. That's what he says about him, not me. On behalf of civil integrity, on behalf of academic responsibility, I publicly invite him before the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to apologize to me here. Another MP offended everyone present today by saying, I quote, "Today from the Parliament's majority came smarter, and those who do not and who do not know the law came to this assembly today." I recommend that he frame this smart sentence in the office and the living room to remind himself of the level of civilization and democratic culture. This amendment, Madam President, of course I won't support it because it speaks of the public interest to delete it. I'm shocked when a university professor suggests it, and it's legal science. I am simply ashamed that he does not know who determines the public interest and how it determines it. You know why, Madam President, they propose to "wipe out" this, not only of public interest, but of an entire member of this law? This amendment reads - public interest is deleted, but the same signatories have signed many amendments "expunge". Here's why. Dear People's MPs, I'll try to explain it. You know why? Because after the adoption of this law, in a day or two at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, an expropriation process that will last three or four months will begin, and after that, conditions will be created for the issue of a building permit and the construction of planned buildings. That's one reason. The second reason, because by the end of this summer, it will be realistic to start construction. It is important that the sooner it starts with realisation, which is of vital interest to citizens, not only Belgrade but the whole of Serbia, hired our entire construction industry and not only the construction industry, but also the related works. Third, the financial resources that were mentioned here today, even though it is in the law, will be provided by an investor from the United Arab Emirates, and Serbia should only clear the plot and provide a building permit. Is it small? About 13,000 workers will be employed there. The "Belgrade on Water" project represents, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Belgrade and Serbia, one of the most important investment ventures of the Republic of Serbia, and the realisation of this project will raise the value of Belgrade as a whole. That's important. It's some thorn in the eye because it's the mayor of Sinisa Mali, and it's not Dragan Gilas. By engaging in the entire construction industry, we will engage other related activities, which means the overall economic activity of the Republic of Serbia. That's what he'll do when he starts to realize. Next, who's against this? Today we heard who is demanding a withdrawal on the amendment to erase "public interest". It's them, ladies and gentlemen, who have been destroying the Sava coasts for years through a 75 billion-dollar robbery privatisation from Serbia, etc. Imagine who is looking for and criticising the "Belgrade on Water" project and asking for a retreat, the former regime, because if it happens, this is the core of the "Belgrade on Water", Luka Belgrade will not happen. That's the problem, ladies and gentlemen, Belgraders, Serbian citizens. It will not make tens of millions, Mr. Miskovic, but it will earn citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens in its pockets, etc. So, here you see, one of the signatories of this "is deleted", believe it or not, is also a folk MP who was the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia and was a federal MP, and recently on N1 television, I quote -- I advocate that "Smederevo iron" is abolished, and workers are sent home. That's how they've been doing it for 12 years. They've shaken, Serbian citizens, out of our pockets everything, and the last penny. Now, this isn't gonna work. "Belgrade on Water" is a done deal. He's the blood vessel of the entire Serbia. On that behalf, I suggest we don't accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25315	Mr Balša Bozovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25316	Replica. Do I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25317	Replica, I don't know which line, for example?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25318	Dragan Gilas, for example, is a member of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25319	Dragan Gilas, if he mentioned it here, I didn't know you were going to replicate on behalf of Dragan Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25320	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25321	Please don't. Please, I didn't expect that from you. You're a serious MP. I give my word to Mr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25322	Just a brief comment. Despite our best wish to consider all the amendments and possibly include the final text of the proposal for this law, the proposal relating to Article 2 and reads in Article 2 "public" is deleted, and after the words "building" the words "science and technology park" are added, I cannot accept the first part because of what Article 2 would then read – public interest for expropriation is determined. If that were to say - there is an interest in expropriation, it would be legal nonsense. Therefore, that amendment is not acceptable. This second part would be in conflict with the key part of this paragraph that says – in line with the spatial plan of the specific purpose area. It's also legal. Therefore, this amendment cannot be accepted. Even if we agreed that a science and technology park could be an integral part of that plan for a special purpose, it would have to be done through a change of plans, not by such a change of members. That's my explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25323	Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Orlic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25324	Thank you, Madam President. So, completely on the line of what we just heard from Mr. Secretary, another small contribution. Here, two things are proposed by the amendment. One is to delete this word "public" and also answer to the promoter whether we can realize that there is no public interest. Unfortunately, we can't. I'm sure we'll talk about it many times today and on many of the following occasions. I wouldn't do it this time because it's not a good text again, and if we adopted this, we'd have bad solutions. You've heard some reasons and another little addition. Technology park. Interesting idea. I don't mind if we talk about her, I think we will by the first amendment because it's mentioned there. But if we adopt that too, how would we read the text of this member of the law - the aim of bringing the land to the ground for the purpose of building the "Belgrade Water" Technology Park? This isn't the law on the tech park of a business-house complex. Even if we were to adopt some next amendment mentioning several parks in the area, it completely loses all meaning. I think it's more than clear that it's not standing and that it can't be adopted because of it, and I agree, we have something to talk about in the next amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25325	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Mladenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25326	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Honored Presidents, Honorable Ministers, Honorable Representatives of the Government, Law establishing public interest and special procedures for expropriation by issuing a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water" is a rational and modern legal solution in times of severe economic crisis facing the global world order, especially our economy. The proposed amendment requires that the word "public" be deleted. My finding is that this is wrong and that this amendment should be rejected, for the simple reason that this is a project of the highest public interest. If we know that market mechanisms in the business of a single economy, in a particular case of our country, and otherwise also apply to the global economy, from time to time, are the reasons why the country, or the economy of a single country, and even the whole world order, falls into crisis stages, or recessions, which is otherwise known in economic theory, and the practice has confirmed multiple, given that crises and recessions have a cyclical character, given that, with a certain period of time flowing over and over again, in these stages of crisis or recession, it is necessary and through the need for state intervention or direct interference of the state in business flows and movement, the consequences of the crisis are to be mitigated as much as possible and the period of time of crisis as possible shortened. This is the key reason why the project "Belgrade on Water" and its implementation is of key state importance. This is also the reason why important projects are the launch of "Smederevo" in Smederevo, the launch of FAP in Priboj, the project of functioning "Petrohemia" on economic principles, the launch of "Jinsi" in Krukupnje and, I sincerely hope, until 1 September of the launch of "Ginsi" in Vladic's Han. Otherwise, these are all projects run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and which represent state interventionism or the direct impact of the state on the development of the economy of our country, on the growth of economic activity within our economy and on the rise of employment, which represents, I am sure, the key and lock for most of the problems facing our population, i.e. our economy. Unfortunately, these political opponents, depicted as representatives of the former government, do not understand and hardly understand, since they had no quality representatives to explain to them in their environment the importance of these measures, which thank God is not the case with this government that brings together serious and responsible people, what projects are saying that it is committed to and has the first government man who has a sense and a willingness to deal with the problems of our population and our economy, as well as the feeling and heightiness of the time in which we live, during which it works and manages the state. All these are reasons why this amendment should be resolutely rejected and the adoption of the "Belgrade on Water" law in general, thus giving the city authorities and representatives of the state a chance to try to implement the "Belgrade on Water" project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25327	Thank you. The word is Nebojsa Tatomir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25328	Honored presidents, respected ministers, dear colleagues, of course we will not vote for this amendment in the voting day, and listening to Mr. Janko Veselinovic's explanation for this amendment, I was under the impression that he started lobbying publicly for the Tesla City project, which the "BK Group" proposed by the mentioning technology park and IT centre. What I would like to say, given that there are some MPs here who like to read parts from some different books, I will read only three sentences from the book "On the Drina Cupria", in which Ivo Andric talks about the arrival of the Austrian army in Bosnia in 1787. When they came to Visegrad to do something, it was strange for all the residents. He says so - because this constant need for foreigners to build and break up, to dig and build, to lift and transform, that most of their desire to predict the fact of natural forces, to avoid or jump, nobody understands or appreciates it here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25329	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Goran Bogdanović, Dusan Petrovic, Branko Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25330	Thank you, Your Honor. Gentlemen and fellow MPs, Article 2 is essential, it gives us the possibility for the government to implement a project that would make 177 hectares on the right bank of the Sava the best possible way, but in accordance with the laws in force in Serbia and, in our opinion, in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade. We suggested here to add a new Article 2a. I have to read it, first of all for the public, and I believe my colleagues read it. It reads: "The expropriation process cannot begin before the investor's election process to build a project after a public call is over. The public call for investors to implement the project must also contain the following conditions: 1) the obligation of the investor to provide financial resources for the expropriation carried out under the provisions of this law; 2) the obligation of the investor to provide funds and provide guarantees for the construction of commercial and housing facilities; 3) the obligation of the investor to provide funds and guarantees for the construction of the following infrastructure facilities; 4) the obligation of the investor to provide funds and guarantees for the construction of IT facilities and infrastructures of the IT sector and scientific and technological parks for at least one third of the public purpose surfaces. In the procedure referred to in Article 1, only the tenderer who fulfils all the conditions laid down in Article 2 will be elected to the investor. The public invitation is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", at least one daily newspaper distributed on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and on the official website of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. “ So nothing in the project “Belgrade on Water,” as presented in this House, which is why we are passing a law dealing with expropriation issues and procedures for granting a building permit, none of this now exists. Neither is it established by a public call by a certain investor, nor does that investor give, we know today, any guarantee that he will invest the funds that are being talked about here, from three and a half billion to 150 million, how much, when we get serious, it is said to be invested at the first moment. Nor is it said that the investor will pay for investment in infrastructure. On the contrary, this law says it can be done to compensate. So, you can build a school that the investor will say has built for 100m euros and thus requires one-third of the infrastructure equipment to be paid, how estimated it will be. The worst part is that this law stipulates that the final reckoning in Article 15 will take place after the construction of the last facility is completed. It means never. So, I suggest you accept this amendment, to introduce things into legal principles, to declare the public interest because scientific and technological parks will be built, and to end this whole project, but to bring it to the steps and laws of the Republic of Serbia and the measures needed by citizens of Belgrade, not to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this law will cost at least 40m euros, as we have heard that the estimated value that the Government of Serbia will have to pay for expropriation under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25331	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of public spending have tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3 be added after Article 2. Minister, do you accept this amendment? Yeah. I thank you. The minister has accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment were submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and the MPs together: Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers Selakovic and Vujovic and the Honored Guests, please once again consider this amendment to this article of the Law. Why? In two centuries of urban development in Belgrade, gentlemen, it has not happened, Mr Selakovic, that we have a model and a construction. Out of the thousand and eight hundred fifteen years since Radoj Dedinac, there has always been a order: plan, project, construction, and all of them, behold, Mr Selaković, now I see that he is following. One thousand eight hundred fifteenth to 1830, Radoje Dedinac plan, project, construction, and construction immediately, Mr Selakovic. Then, Franc Yankee, same in 1842. – 1843, then, Emilian Josimovic in 1867, respected gentlemen, the same thing. Stefan Zaric, 1878, Jovan Beslic, 1893, honored gentlemen. Vasa Lazarevic, 1910. These are all urban plans, projects, and then construction, Albanian Shamon in 1912, 1921, we also have a previous competition. Here, for example. Mr. Selakovic, Mr. Vujovic, Mr. Vučić, there was a complaint against the opening of the competition two days ago here. Djordje Kovalevski 1923, Jovan Obradovic in 1927, honored gentlemen. By adopting this proposal that we are discussing here today, we will tear down 200 years of urban development in the city of Belgrade, gentlemen. We're going to break some principles that are always respected so far. Don't forget, that's how we break our tradition, gentlemen. We're not voting for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25333	Alexandra Tomic, she asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25334	Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, this amendment, as by nature of things, is intended for erasure, but not only this amendment, but most of the amendments. What should be said is that when we talk about the "Belgrade on Water" project at all, there are simply many untrues, as if there were no plans and projects done to organize the Sava coast since 1972, according to the GUP, 1976 Study of the Central Zone done by the Urbanist Institute, 1986, a major international competition that is "Varoš na Voda". So it's all been defined in 1995. ‘Europolis’. A report that is practically related to all these projects, and an evaluation of financial studies, whether something is worth it, is being done by interested investors. When we talk about it, and we didn't get a chance to hear it, since we were just listening to the lies in the principle debate,
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25335	Please, about the amendment, specifically, you've come forward after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25336	When we talk about expropriation, it should be said that in the city of Belgrade there is a first phase of 116 legal and physical persons to be expropriated from the adoption of this law. The award of the property of the eighth apartment has been completed so far, the law for a certain time 30 apartments and 32 are leased indefinitely. When we talk about assigning apartments to the necessary accommodations, eight apartments totaled up to now. Even moving across the city of Belgrade was a total of six families. One family even left the facility alone and destroyed it. This suggests that simply, all natural and legal persons have undefined legal models by which they live in the area. What's good is what the state is doing at the moment, which is to solve with them a status relationship in the part that relates to the expropriation of this land and these citizens, these natural persons and those legal persons from tomorrow will have a practically legal relationship with their property. They're in the best interest of getting rid of it this way. On the other hand, when we talk about the amendment that applies to this part when you say that there are initiatives that maybe it solves that I am an investor in a direct case with interested existing natural and legal persons. It is simply not possible, because it does not provide legal certainty for them, that simply today, tomorrow, whenever there is a change in legal status that these natural and legal persons simply have their property in an adequate way. So the state has to protect its assets in a certain way. What is the size of this project that will not be the property of the investor, which will simply remain the property of the Republic of Serbia, which will be the land on which these buildings are being leased by investors and will not happen to us by a "Bellville", which from 2001 to 2005, will be leased, and then by the change of the Law on Conversion, the Law on Planning and Construction, by Mr Dulic, practically transferred to the private purposes of Delta Rill Investment. What is interesting is that not only did they acquire assets from extremely large investors, who are represented by certain opposition parties, such as Mr. Miskovic, but also certain companies that bought firms in restructuring, with very good locations and existing land owners that today simply want to become large investors. I think, in fact, not only this amendment, but the whole law represents one kind of competition for those who wanted to, and that is primarily Mr. Miskovic who bought the company Auto-Command in 2005, who announced the construction of two large towers and one shopping mall. It is clear why opposition MPs want to challenge this law in this way. So it's a good thing you didn't accept this kind of amendment anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25337	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25338	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several times in the debate in principle, as well as in the debate in particular, a notorious lie has been made, and I think it should be responded to. Anyone who is well and carefully read the bill and the particular explanation on the page of the seventh material delivered to all MPs, is next, I will quote this paragraph. It says – the spatial plan of the area of special purpose of regulating part of the coast of Belgrade is the area of the Sava River coast for the project "Belgrade on Water" was done in everything according to the law, decision and regulation on the content, manner, process of drawing up the planning documents. The spatial plan of the specific purpose area shall contain the elements of the regulation which are all done in accordance with the methodology for the urban plans being made. It was mentioned earlier, for example, Emilian Josimovic, the first educated Serbian urbanist. Or at the level of detail necessary for direct implementation. This implies that local conditions are issued from the plan in accordance with the law. The plan was drawn up under the procedure laid down by law and sublaws, which implies that expert control of public insight was carried out and that the plan was considered and adopted by the Government. In that sense, the government adopted a regulation laying down a spatial plan for the specific purpose of regulating part of Belgrade's coastal area, the Sava River coast for the "Belgrade on Water" project. The plan entered into force on 31 January 2015. The plan came into force on January 31st, the plan came into force. Sometimes it's not enough to be just academically honest, it's human, so let's say this is written here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25339	Thank you. It's been two minutes. I thank the ministers. On what basis are you answering? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. You can only spend your five minutes. You don't want to, then there's no replica. According to Article 104, read it and find me a basis for replication. So the MPs are laughing and I realize that they have a funny Rules of Procedure. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25340	I would like to thank the President. I have to put this debate back on the table again, and the point is what we said at the very beginning – what is the content of this law. In a procedural legal sense, the words to point out immediately, this law contains standards of procedure. That's why this law is procedurally legal. And, for my esteemed colleague who was now talking about something coming out of the context of this law, let's get back to its essence. The law regulates two essential things. One is the establishment of public interest, and the other is the procedure by which the expropriation is carried out and nothing more. The legitimacy of the parties has been established. Who are the parties? The state of Serbia, or the Republic of Serbia on the one hand, as a beneficiary of expropriation and of course the procedure is being conducted in front of the competent authorities authorised by law to carry out the procedure. Therefore, dear citizens and fellow MPs, contract, project and everything else that a respected colleague calls on, comes out of the framework of this law, and they can only be applied to norms that are not covered by this Lex specialization, and today we are only doing the derogation of a part of the Law on Planning and Construction, and everything else will remain in application, so there is no need to discuss, exhaust and waste time on something outside the domain of what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25341	The word is Goran Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25342	Dear ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Law establishing public interest and special procedures for expropriation by issuing a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water", is a fair and quality legal solution, so that it is among the fair and quality legal solutions, certainly the solution found in Article 3 and that is why it is inadmissible to delete a member of this law. In order to further explain, it is also necessary to read for the public opinion of Article 3 of this Act in paragraph 2 in order to understand what this amendment wants to achieve. I will now quote: “When the object of expropriation is a building land on which the object is built contrary to the law, and the object in question has been applied for legalisation, which until the initiation of the expropriation procedure has not been properly completed, or for the object in question has been applied in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property on buildings built without a building permit, which is not legally completed, the party in the procedure of expropriation, the owner of the building land on which the facility is built.” Therefore, when the object of expropriation is a building land on which buildings are built contrary to the law, on which the party is in the process, otherwise the owner of that building land and the building on it, and such buildings in Serbia have many, and this is also the case in the area relating to the project "Belgrade on Water", in accordance with Article 8(2), the right to compensation at the level of the estimated building value of the facility has been defined. Therefore, all of those facilities, i.e. owners, investors, natural and legal persons who have facilities, which are illegally built, are located in the area of implementation of the project "Beograda na Voda" will be compensated at the level of the building value, i.e. they will be compensated for the amount of money equivalent to the money invested in the construction of the same. That's why we say that this is a fair solution, because it recognises the right to make up for the owners of the facilities that built the buildings under the law. In the follow-up to Article 3(3), which is requested, it is also envisaged, and I will only quote the part – when the subject of the expropriation is a building land on which the facility is built, on which the property rights are entered in accordance with the provisions of the law governing legalisation or under the Law on Special Conditions, is provided for in Article 8(3) for such facilities whose right of property is entered in accordance with the Law on Legalisation, the right to compensation in the height of market value. The market value for such buildings is higher than the building value, and that is a logical solution, for the simple reason that the owners of the facilities, which will be the subject of expropriation, which has built buildings by law, or without a building permit, will receive the building value, in other words, the amount of the value lower than the buildings which are in accordance with the building permit, which have the accompanying documentation and which are recorded in accordance with the Law on Legalisation. These investors had higher costs in the construction process itself, than contributions, various taxis, the consent they had obtained, so that they belonged to market value. This is a member of a law that can also be applied to other sublegal acts in the perspective, which can be applied to certain government decisions and as such is a positive regulation, fair and fair, and I believe that such an amendment should be resolutely rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25343	Zoran Zivkovic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25344	Yes, in Article 3, this Article 3 is specific to the fact that in a very rude way it offends the acquired and property rights of individual persons, by not recognising the status of the party in the proceedings. This is the most thought of by people who are users of undeveloped building land and who have applied for conversion, who are not resolved because of the unscheduled conduct of the state. It is also very interesting that the amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction have stopped the land conversion process, so that these people have no right, no possibility of completing the process, no party status in the process, and thus are placed in another order, with the possibility of achieving their constitutional rights. Of course, that's just one example, and that's what's behind the word "expect" because there are so many reasons why this law is not good, that every further detailed explanation would take hours and hours and force both the professional services and the leadership of parliament and the government of Serbia and the competent committees and someone who knows how to read amongsts of the majority, to spend a lot of time...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25345	Ambassador, you have now made an insult to other colleagues, to all who represent the majority, 200 and some MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25346	Here, I don't know how, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25347	You'll understand when you read the stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25348	What did I say?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25349	So you can't insult the MPs for the second time. Today you said that MPs who will support this law are stupid.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25350	That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25351	And now you say, someone who knows how to read from the ruling majority...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25352	I beg you not to interrupt me first.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25353	Don't beg me and I don't have the tolerance for words like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25354	You should get that in time, but don't tell the truth. I didn't tell anyone today he was stupid. I said they were smarter...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25355	We'll read at the press conference...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25356	You read it, then tell me what I am, so when you say someone is smarter, it's the second degree of graduation. Smarter, smarter...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25357	Thank you. You've wasted your time. I helped you, so you don't get into the air with what you're saying. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Don't help me, help yourself. ) "Don't help me, help yourself," says MP Zivkovic. Thank you. The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25358	I thank the presidents of the National Assembly. I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Articles 104, 107 and 108. On several occasions you can see here...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25359	Say immediate injury, don't analyze the whole day, right after he's been injured in the last few minutes. So when?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25360	Now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25361	Now? Well, there was no request for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25362	I raised it before Mr. Zivkovic was given his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25363	Here, you have two minutes and tell me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25364	So today the amendments to the Lex specialis Act on "Belgrade on Water" are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25365	Article 104 refers to offensive expressions to the MP and opportunities if such a thing happens, to obtain a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25366	Can I just finish explaining? So 104, 107, 108, all three members. So, first of all, there's a lot of anxiety, today we're discussing amendments to the "Belgrade on Water" Lex Specialis Act, and we have a situation where some opposition MP, in this case Mr Pavicevic, says something in defense of his amendment, and those four answers to him, and he doesn't get the right to reply. So this is not the way that dialogue is bypassed as the basic course of democracy, and if you claim that there is no dialogue in the Rules of Procedure, then let's take a break to change the Rules of Procedure, and then this Assembly will be a Assembly where the dialogue will be conducted on each subject, including the subject of "Begrad na Voda". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25367	I thank you, too, even though you have abused the Rules of Procedure to say something that you may have been thinking about for several years since you brought this Rules of Procedure. It didn't take you a few years to change it. So, the Rules of Procedure will apply as the Democratic Party has brought in previous councils. We respect what you brought, and we liked it or didn't like it, because it was voted by the majority at the time. So I have a lot of respect for the Rules of Procedure that the Democratic Party has brought. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Sit down, I didn't give you my word, I just said your name because Balsa Bozovic said your name. So MP Balsa Bozovic wanted to be your lawyer so he asked why you didn't get the word. No, you didn't get the replica, but you got the opportunity to debate in your five-minute time. Why are there more SNS deputies, that was a question? So the citizens voted, and according to your Rules of Procedure, they have 165 minutes, honourable MP Balsa Bozovic... Dear MP Balša Bozovic, I am speaking to you, so somehow if you could at least communicate with me, 165 minutes, and Mr Vladimir Pavicevic, thanks to the votes of the list he received, five minutes. So it's incorrect, so the will of the citizens to some of the next elections. I have to respect her and I want to respect the voice of the citizens. So if Mr. Vladimir Pavicevic, the MP wants to debate in his five minutes, he has the right. Do you want to debate in your five minutes? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: First Rules of Procedure. First Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Do you want to vote on this? (Balsa Bozovic, from town: Yes. No, no, no, The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25369	I apologize to you, I'll give you back your time. You know, while you and I are working today and I'm asking you a question and you're texting, whether the President of Parliament should wait for you to type up all the text messages you have or tweets and stop Parliament's work or maybe you're, I think someone here is wrong, and I think I'm right and I don't need to wait for you to tweet or text messages instead of working on it. Here you go. I'm sorry, we'll take 40 seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored National Assembly Presidents Mrs Gojkovic, Honored Ministers Selakovic and Vujovic and Honored Guests, I believe that members of the 27th and 108th are injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because, Honored President Gojkovic, in our Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly there are provisions that provide you with the possibility to give people MPs the right to replication and thus create conditions for dialogue here, especially when on the agenda such as the project "Belgrade on Water". The Prime Minister has declared it the biggest project in how many years or decades and imagine, Mr President, that when there are provisions in the Rules of Procedure that provide for dialogue in the Assembly, we cannot conduct this dialogue. The dialogue concerns not only those five amendments, but it concerns my right to say something about my amendment when Mr. Selakovic says something that I do not agree with, when Mr. Nedo Jovanovic says something about my amendment, which I do not agree with, when Mrs. Tomic says something about my amendment, which I do not agree with that I am entitled to a two-minute replica. The Honorable President, since the four of them have come forward, that everyone is discussing my amendment, so I guess I, the respected Mrs Gojkovic, can get the right to a two-minute replica to respond to all of them in those two minutes. Thank you. Thank you, Ambassador. How can I explain to you, you have five minutes, Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic has five minutes. Members of the SNS 160 and a few minutes, the SPS 30 minutes, there's a lot more of them, here's a physical little look at you, and I can't think of any formula to turn into a smaller one. Maybe on Friday, but I'm more prone to social science and I can't. I can allow you those five minutes and you refuse. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: No. You've been refusing your five minutes. A little incomprehensible. Please, let's just make it possible for further discussion. I completely agree with all of you, and if I were to continue my work, maybe someone would want me to keep my work down, so you're raising the Rules of Procedure upstairs. Let me continue my work, and we'll continue with the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 18 hours because of the need for the Assembly to bring acts from the agenda of this session, especially today's law we are trying to discuss in the sea of violations of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word is Srdjan Kružević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25371	Honored presidents and respected colleagues and guests, advertises Article 106. I think that article 108 has been used, but it is not well explained for the simple reason that you should take care of yourself at the National Assembly session, not to justify yourself to MPs who have 10 minutes to obstruct the work of the National Assembly and try not to, I don't know how, not to adopt what we're about to adopt today. If we can give Serbia a chance to create 20,000 new jobs and if we can give Serbia a chance to move forward, I ask that we do so in this high house. So I'm really asking you and alluding to you that you run a session and that you don't fall under any petty provocations, but to move on because we still have a lot of work to do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25372	Thank you. You MPs know me well, so you know I won't succumb to provocations. I think you've made more suggestions than a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I understand. Does anyone want to talk about the amendment? The word is Marijan Risticevic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am afraid that this amendment is unacceptable because if Article 3 were to be adopted by an amendment that is very meaningful and which reads this way and needed great intellectual potential at the level of geniuses, to write one text of this content, if they had adopted their amendment, Article 3 would have been read like this, so that parties in the process of expropriation and user of the expropriation of the two parties, the Republic of Serbia, the City of Belgrade and on the other hand the owner of immovableity would not exist in this law. So the amendment is totally unacceptable, completely empty. I thought, of course, the old one couldn't stop, ageing, I thought wisdom was coming with age, but apparently, some come only years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25374	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, professor Dr Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blažje Bradić, Ivan Karic. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25375	The respected presidents, respected ministers, the SDS-ZZ-ZS parliamentary group, have submitted an amendment that would mitigate damage and prevent Serbia's marking as a place of insecure private property and private capital by providing for the amendment, quoting it – Private property facilities built in accordance with the regulations and registered in the immobility cadasar, can only be subject to expropriation provided that owners give written consent to the expropriation carried out under the provisions of this law. So, this was one, we could say, an extremely peaceful amendment, which ignored that we do not believe that this "Beograd on water" will not be and will be with it as with 100,000 apartments that Prime Minister Vukic promised 380 euros, which he never built, nor did he mention. So, we ignored that. However, we asked that these 150 private property facilities be excluded from forced expropriation, that it be somewhat lighter, more moderate towards them. I know, Mr. Selakovic, that expropriation is a sign of the government's coercion towards private property owners, but you and President Vukic, too, I think you mentioned today that private ownership is only 5%. So nothing bad would happen for this project that we don't believe, and you believe, and we want it to happen. If you had excluded private premises and allowed that part of the "expropriation" to be implemented through this law, but in the process of buying those locations in the market, so as not to be damaged private owners, the country of Serbia would not be marked by a black spot on the European and world map, as an insecure country for private property, and you could commit yourself to cutting grass and removing wrecks, although it has nothing to do with "Belgrade on Water". You should have removed the wrecks and cut the grass unbound. You don't need an expropriation law for that. Will you make a decision, or expropriation law in Serbia, for every wild dump? There are only 1.005 wild dumps in Novi Sad. Are you going to announce on these dumps, or are you going to conduct an expropriation to clean them up? You could've done it past that. That is why we are asking, we are still proposing to you, Mr Vujovic, that you accept this amendment and that private facilities be classified in the special legal category and that "Belgrade on Water" be free of you, but that we do not embarrass ourselves as a legal state.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25376	On the 4th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25377	Article 4 says -- the Republic of Serbia, represented by the state's defence, is designated as a user of expropriation. The City of Belgrade, represented by a public undertaking, i.e. another person, in accordance with the powers laid down in the general acts of the City of Belgrade, for the user of expropriation in the construction of the area of public purpose, i.e. the construction of buildings of public purposes, public areas for which special laws determine the authority of the City of Belgrade for construction, etc. We see here that, in fact, "Belgrade on Water", of which Belgrade can only deal with parks, benches and maybe something like that, but that the main part of the Republic of Serbia, which is of course not the investor "Belgrade on Water", is because, as we heard, there are money that is three and a half billion and that will be used, which are of course foreign investment. If we look at it rationally, it can't be concluded in this article, nor does it mean here. Why does the Republic of Serbia represent the state's defence as a beneficiary of expropriation? It's the same question that's completely unclear. What is the meaning of the expression – that is, the other person? So, the City of Belgrade represents a public enterprise, or another person. I know that in the poor legal language another person can be swallowed somewhere as a formal correct word for this explanation, but I think it was much better if it had written there – another subject. We now have a dilemma here whether the City of Belgrade represents a public enterprise or another person, so that person can be any of the present MPs, from the fans of Beograd on Water who were outside the hall the other day, from people who may have some bad intentions and I think it's very bad that it exists in Article 4. Therefore, Article 4 as well as other members point out that this is an attempt by the Serbian government to transfer a dirty operation to the Serbian parliament, which should not be allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25378	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25379	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected National Assembly presidents, respected ministers, Vujovic, who are not answering the questions of MPs now, and Selakovic, respected guests, prominent architects claim that Belgrade is on the water urban precedent. I have to remind myself here now that all of us MPs are imagining what we're discussing today. The prominent architects have told us these days, the MPs, that most in the Assembly, and now most of them are progressive, can vote and get their teeth out through the ear, and then have announced which reasonable dentist, for example, will adhere to such a law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is it clear to us what compares the possibility of announcing the adoption of such a bill? Is it clear to us here that this principle of the majority, if it is the key to this debate, will violate all the values of constitutional democracy, Mr Selakovic? Here, the Prime Minister two days ago, in principle debate, cited the practice of a communist, one-party, authoritarian, former state as some kind of example for us who seek to create a modern democratic state, Mr Selakovic. Should one mind be a role model for us who seek such a modern state, a constitutional, liberal, parliamentary democracy? Dear gentlemen, MPs, honourable ministers, honored guests, respected presidents of the National Assembly, I will always fight against such an approach and always try to convince all MPs that such an approach does not bring good, does not bring general good, respected gentlemen and respected presidents, Mrs Gojkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25380	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25381	Dear President, gentlemen of the Ministers, there are several reasons why we are asking for this Article of the Fourth Proposed Law to be deleted. First, he talks about who represents the users of the expropriation, and we oppose expropriation because we believe that what is happening here is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to persuade the Assembly to declare private apartments and the mall as public interest. Furthermore, it is said that the Republic of Serbia, as a user of expropriation, is represented by the state's defence, and the City of Belgrade represents a public enterprise, or another person, so our question – does the City of Belgrade have some city's defence? Is there something like that, or is it just not there in Belgrade? If so, why is the City of Belgrade not represented by the City of Belgrade, if the Republic is represented by the State's Attorney's Office, but the City of Belgrade will represent a public enterprise run by party personnel from the SNS or by some other person for whom it is only absolutely unclear who this person might be? So, not only are you trying to convince us that it is public interest for someone on the public surface to build private apartments and a shopping centre, but that the City of Belgrade should not represent those who, by all laws of this country, should represent the City of Belgrade, and that is the city's defence, but that some public enterprises and other persons can do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25382	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25383	Yeah, since I can't answer too often for a word in the interest of time, I just want to say it briefly. This previous amendment, which is about seeking prior consent to expropriation, is actually called a contract. Therefore, that is understood and there is no need to stand. As far as this proposal is concerned, Article 4 of Article 2 specifies the city of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade, of course, has, unlike a republic that has only defence, no specialised institution. The city of Belgrade has a public company dealing with it, it has and it is responsible for it, and besides, under other persons, what is written here – other legal and other persons, in accordance with the powers laid down by the general acts of the City of Belgrade. That includes the city's attorney's office. I don't mind changing, including the D.A.'s office, I don't mind that, it doesn't change anything I can agree with. So that's not the problem. But they have a directorate who is primarily in charge of this, and therefore the city's attorney's office does not deal with this, unlike the Republic of Macedonia does with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25384	I thank the ministers. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dr Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25385	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, fellow Members of my parliamentary group, and I have submitted an amendment relating to the same problem. By proposing that Article 4(2) of the word "public enterprise", i.e. another person, in accordance with the responsibilities set out in the Belgrade City General Act, be replaced by the words "City of Belgrade's Attorney General". The law on defence is laid down in Articles 2, 51 and 52 that property rights protection and the interests of local self-government units, local self-government units, in the specific case of the City of Belgrade City's City of Belgrade. In this respect, we do not see any reason why this jurisdiction established by law should be entrusted to a public undertaking, or to another person in accordance with the powers laid down in the sublaw. In addition, it is unclear which public enterprise is thought of and of any other legal person, as well as any general act. If an exception has already been made when the question of the Republic of Serbia is in the position of the same member, and the jurisdiction of the state's attorney's office has been properly confirmed, there is no clear reason why the exception was made in the case of Belgrade City. Earlier, the minister explained that there is a specialised public company in Belgrade to deal with these affairs. It is not specified here that the question is this company. We don't even know what company it is now. Is it really qualified, but certainly not in accordance with the Law on Public Defence. And it is incomprehensible that the government is trying with this lex specialism to derogate and the Law on Public Defence which is explicit and precise on this issue. Such a general formulation for a public enterprise, not knowing who it is, opens up opportunities to question the entire legal order for various actions that can also be corrupt, and unfair nature not to list now exactly what it can open up to such a vague formulation of a public enterprise, not specifying which and who is responsible for determining when it will be a public enterprise and when it will be a defence firm. That's why we think it's much more right to stick to the Law on Public Defence and to accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25386	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25387	I'm not a lawyer, but I'm warning you that in a hundred examples that I've seen so far, when a generic name is used, let's say instead of the Ministry of Finance, we always use the Ministry of Finance in charge, so we don't have to change the laws if tomorrow the Ministry Act connects some ministries, divides some ministries, etc. This is also happening in order not to have to change hundreds of places where it appears, says the Ministry of Business Affairs, the Ministry of Finance Affairs. This syntagma here means the same thing. If that is not true, lawyers should be provided with a public undertaking or another person in accordance with the powers laid down in the general acts of the City of Belgrade. It's precisely defined here that it's a public enterprise that's responsible for it, and under the other, it's a defense. So we tried to be generically very precise. If he's afraid of you, suggest another formulation. I think this formulation is consistent with the formulas we use in all the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25388	The 5th Amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Dr Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karić and joint MPs Boris Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozović, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Šutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25389	Article 5 whose erasure is sought in one sentence – an expropriation proposal shall be submitted no later than five years from the date of entry into force of this law. The question is why does the law enter into force after the day it was brought or published in the Official Messenger, if it is time for expropriation? The question is, how are the works of the Sava amphitheater going to start at the beginning of the summer, if it's five years apart? The question is, if there are plans, detailed plans, what are they doing there, in what size, on what schedule? Why wait five years to apply for expropriation? Of course, the answers are clear, there is no plan, there is no project, there is nothing that could suggest that this is a design project and that it has anything to do with legality, construction profession, urban and architectural, and of course no one is concerned about the public economic interest. We heard the day before yesterday that it's important to start. It's important that we get into it. There are a lot of things like this in Serbia. It's supposed to be done and I've already said it, but I'm going to say it again, to build one foundation stone rescue agency that's been laid in this poor country for the last 20, 30, 40 years. So many things have been started, so many cornerstones have been laid, and nothing since that place has been built, and we should really take it out and make one museum, perhaps in the Sava amphitheater, which would be dedicated to the beginning and the unfinished dreams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25390	Carrier Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25391	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, the refusal of this amendment and the text of the law which provides that an expropriation proposal can be submitted within five years of the date of entry into force, not within a year, as set out in Article 25 of the current Expropriation Act, which practically derrogates this law, speaks of faith in this project of the Government. So, in normal cases when it comes to expropriating the deadline to apply is a year, and here about so much urgency, it's important that the sooner we get there, the longer we go to five years. Why? What's the problem? We don't have any money? Do we not have the money or do we not believe that this project will be completed as a whole? Why does this law for a project that we hear is so important that we declare public interest to build a business housing facility we show this practically we don't believe this can end, that there's no money to end it? What are we gonna do when it's five years? How much will it be built on a space that is now spoken of at 177 ha? Will everything from the model be built as the prime minister said in 10, 15 years from now? This member of the law is the best picture of what's actually going on here. It is about to start with the first phase, that when the first phase fails, the investor will pull through and bear no expense and that the entire risk on this project is on Serbian citizens. The whole risk is on Serbian citizens, because they have to pay for the budget expropriation, and Belgrade's citizens have to pay for investment equipment, because water cannot be dragged through the pipe as the building is built, but you have to bring the entire water line to the entire complex for two million squares. You have to do it now and it'll cost us right now. You need to solve the sewers immediately for all the squares, not how the squares are built. You need to solve the power right now, because you can't after the buildings are finished and you're digging again and you're pulling electricity, gas pipeline and other things, telecommunications. These are investments in the equipment of this land, which amount to 33 billion dinars, which must be given immediately, and you are thus showing that you do not believe this project will come to life, that's what we've been saying from the beginning. This kind of megalomanic project, as it is imagined, cannot be realized and the investor has been provided, it will not invest 3.5 billion, it will invest 150 million, it will see what will happen to the apartments that are sold or not sold, one way or another, at what price it will go to, and we will stay here with the debts, with another unfulfilled dream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25392	Thank you. Just to see who else is the applicant for the amendment. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: I am a bearer. ) Dr Vladimir Pavicevic has the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister, I see that Mr Vujovic has been involved in our debate, but Mr Selakovic does not, nor does the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, which I interpret as accepting our argument against this bill, gentlemen. Once again, patience, diligence, commitment, perseverance and force of argument may sometimes win here. Here is a project on water, respected gentlemen, compared two days ago with the Eiffel Tower, with the Porto Montenegro project, for example, in terms of innovation, potential for economic development. I would stay here on this project called Porto Montenegro in Tivt. I was born in that area. Every stone on that coast I know. He swam from Prevlaka to Bojana. That's where I think more than anyone else I can talk about. Dear gentlemen, this project concerns the construction of a marina, a small settlement along that marina, which offers nautical services, gentlemen. Well, it's a project that was built without problems like this that we're facing here, such as legal problems, which Mr. Selakovic is not talking about here. There is no argument for its position, because the basic problem of this bill is that it violates the Constitution for private interest. Well, that didn't happen there, gentlemen. When some projects are compared, then I think it's important to compare them to all the criteria that were important for understanding both of them and the third criteria. Mr Selakovic, I will especially focus on analysing this comparison with the Eiffel Tower, so that nothing remains unclear to the MPs, above all the Serbian Progressive Party and the citizens of our Republic, the respected President Gojkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25394	Thank you. Carrier, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25395	I thank the president. Honorable government representatives, respected MPs, citizens, as my two predecessors have said, this is a project where costs will be borne exclusively by citizens, 3.5 billion euros costs total. There are also 270m euros mentioned earlier by Mr Marko Djurisic, and the government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to amnesty with the responsibility of the few who negotiated with the investor this murky and highly suspicious project "Belgrade on Water". What will happen to my predecessors have already said, several buildings will be built, the investor will withdraw, and all the costs of moving infrastructure and installing infrastructure will be borne by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the same ones who have reduced salaries in the public sector, the same ones who have unconstitutionally reduced pensions. Each Serbian employee will give 2,055 euros directly to the investor in his pocket. We think for this reason that this is against the interests of citizens, that this is a law that will deeply disrupt public finances even though Minister Vujovic does not claim so. However, even when it comes to the investor, it is not so important because this is not a law that is passed to protect Serbia's interest, but rather the interest of a private person who will make shopping malls, hotels, buildings, etc., etc. What is, and I end up with, very important is that we cannot in any way allow a violation of the law, the Constitution to declare someone's private interest to be public. It is a shame for the citizens of Serbia, it is a shame for the city of Belgrade, and you gentlemen from the Serbian Progressive Party are taking part in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25396	Thank you very much. The word has a People's Messenger, Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25397	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I see this exposure was very interesting to you, too. You know, I can't believe when someone says an investor is going to invest money, build buildings, make shopping malls, what you've listed, then get out of the country. I call on such investors to come in as large as possible and make them all do it and run away. If we had such investors, Serbia would most likely be the most developed country in the world, but that will not happen. Whoever invested 3.5 billion wants to make some money. Of course, Serbia will benefit greatly from this, whether it is 30%, 35%, and when we talk about infrastructure, gentlemen, the infrastructure would certainly be working. We want to develop our city. Dear Chairman, I believe that "Delta Siti" was built during the previous speaker, and today, "Belgrade on Water" is being built, and there is a big difference. "Siti" is a city, it's a city again, but "Delta". We know which one of these benefits. Of the "Act of Siti" one man benefits, and of "Beograda on Water" the whole of Serbia benefits. That's where we differ, dear colleague. Don't convince me that when such projects were done, such as "Delta Siti" and many others, there was never any expropriation, there was never a change of law, there was never a change of procedure. How is it not? When those who made it possible for themselves here, they built and adopted laws and you were the only ones who raised their hand. I'm going back to the amendment. So we had "Deltasity", now we have "Belgrade on Water". Someone says you want Abu Dhabi in Belgrade and Serbia. Of course. It's the most developed city in the world perhaps, one of the most developed cities in the world. Of course we want him in Belgrade. We don't want him anywhere safe in the region. We primarily manage Serbia's interests. Such projects want us to become leaders in the region. That probably bothers you. You said "Delta Siti", we say "Belgrade on Water". Big difference. Even the difference is in the square. "Delta Siti" is just a shopping mall, and we make health institutions and schools and hospitals and living space and everything you couldn't do. Maybe you wanted to do it in the "Belgrade Manhattan" project. You didn't make it. The "Beograda Manhattan" left 75 wrecks of old ships, left an unsettled one area that you say, I agree, amazingly how keen your sense of observation is, that this location is the most attractive in Belgrade and that it has the greatest potential, but I'm surprised that you didn't take advantage of it, you who had such investors, you who have always worked in competition, by tender, by law, by the Constitution. You're referring to the Constitution, it's really one of the highest acts of this country, it's for you like, if I didn't say what now, I wouldn't talk about the Constitution that way. You never respected or respected the laws and always violated them. Today everything is done completely transparently in the interests of Serbian citizens, but what I said in the morning, I will repeat now. The Honorable chairman, they have nothing against "Beograd na Voda", "Belgrade Manhattan" and "Belgrade on Water", may be called different, the concept is the same, the development of Belgrade and Serbia. They didn't do it, it was just one political joke and demagogue for the citizens, and we do it and we want to do it and we want to clean up at least what you haven't touched in 20 years. To start with, and that's something, to finish the Prokop, to move the train station, the bus station, to do something, which doesn't mean it's enough, but compared to what you've been doing, it's too much, and the citizens will evaluate it in some of the next elections. You didn't do anything, you just want to obstruct. You're being too destructive. You don't have a problem with Beograd on Water, you have a problem with Alexander Vukic, because he works man. You can't deal with it, because Pitiæ doesn't work. Since a man has more direct obligations with shadow governments, I respect that. The shadow government will certainly bring something good to Serbia, as it will be in the shade for a long time, and I want it. I also want my previous colleague to be a minister in that government, since apparently neither of them will ever be. Essentially, support this project, you can control it, you've been invited to participate. I heard them say earlier -- SNS personnel at the "Belgrade on Water" company. Here, let's make sure they're all DS personnel, but I'm just saying, and I warned the Prime Minister that even the water won't stay if they're in that company. But here, we invite you, one more chance we give you, that you run this management, that you control everything. It's all transparent, it's all public. The question arises – why? Well, for one reason only, because it's in the interest of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25398	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25399	Replication to mention the SNS, but I'll also talk about the amendment, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25400	Time-connected?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25401	That's right. Anything that's over two minutes away from the parliamentary group. A colleague said earlier - why don't SNS MPs get involved in the debate? Here, Mr. Jovicic spoke well both now and throughout the course of the session. When we speak more intensely, when we fight for the ideas and attitudes we represent, then we are accused of being stupid, we are accused of oppressing some other people's MPs. At the moment when, seeing that white paper can't be talked about so creatively, we leave it to those who talk about white paper using some argument that I'm really not smart enough to figure it out, at that point we're guilty of not getting involved again. I'm asking my colleagues to really agree whether or not they want controversy. This seems to me that whatever is done, and even for a rain that will rain or in good weather, SNS and Alexander Vukic will be responsible for everything. But we are responsible for this project, we are honored and proud to have come with this kind of project and this kind of law to the National Assembly, which we will vote today on this law, which in a few months' time we will see the first cranes in Belgrade on this move, which we will see first and public content, but also apartments and hotels and all those places where people from both Belgrade and Serbia will be able to work. On the other hand, somehow little or little, a fellow MP uses the counseled word, or two words: “false work. ” Mr. Bozovicu, do you know what a blurry job is? It's a blur when you reconstruct the longest street in Belgrade, and that's King Alexander's Boulevard, so we see by the investigative authorities that in some very magical and extremely cloudy way, because it's cloudy, it's gone 5.5m euros. 5.5m euros are subscribed, and suddenly some managers jump into the latest jeeps, apartments, watches. But I don't want to affect the judiciary, let the judiciary clear that water, what it is, what it is and what's been going on in Belgrade. Mr. Bozovicu, a murky job is when Belgrade Water and sewerage, while being run by a man as the first associate of the former mayor, only one water disinfection machine, to ear radiation at Makisha II, subscribes a million and a half euros, and instead of costing 400,000 euros, a million and 927 thousand euros were paid on the market. It's a blurry job, Mr. Bozovic. It is also a murky job when Belgrade's water and sewerage has been renting from the same company 1,000 employees a day for years. I wouldn't mind if my associates and I hadn't made it to the APR site, if we hadn't seen that this company that rented the labor force, and that 1,000 people a day, had employees of 558. So how do you make a thousand out of 558? Probably renting Dad, mom, neighbors, brothers, uncles, I don't know who he rented everything. It's a blurry job, Mr. Bozovic. It is also a murky job when the plot, which is still unfortunately not built, is being held on the corner of King Milan and King Milutin in Belgrade, in a magical way by the City Assembly decision, which you, Mr Bozovic, held, maintained and controlled, changed the urban zone, and suddenly passed from an extra zone to the first zone, so suddenly the City of Belgrade is being damaged only by the equipment for eightm euros on city building land. It's a blurry business, Mr. Bozovic. Where's the public interest in that? Then why didn't you fight for the interest of the Belgraders? Why wasn't the public interest in that? We'll talk, this is just one small list. We have enough amendments by the end of today's session, we will speak by midnight every single thing, each for every blurry job that's been going on in Belgrade, which happened in Serbia by 2012. But, calling a murky job something where you got the hand of Prime Minister Vukic, open and handy – come, help, participate, control. Well, would anyone who wants to do anything cloudy say – come and control it? Of course not. But we want to do this job transparently, to work in public, to work in the interests of Serbian citizens, and it's so hard for you to get out of that shadow, to roll up your sleeves. You don't have to cut, I know you're not used to it. You know, it's for some other people, for some insiders. Share Serbia in Belgrade and the interior, arguing people in Serbia. No, we're not having a hard time doing something like that, and I believe most people in Belgrade, honest and correct, don't find it hard to roll up their sleeves. It's hard for you to fold your sleeves, so you can come and control it, but it's not hard for you to accuse. It's not hard for you to clear out. It is not difficult for you to speak, but it is a dark matter. Mud business, and in a blurry march you led Belgrade and the state of Serbia until 2012. These papers here are every item, everything where they're gone and where public finances are drowned, all where you've brought public finances to Belgrade City are a world record by deficit. Where did that money go? He's here, Mr. Bozovic. We'll talk blurry about every one of these files. I don't think you'll like it, as I don't think you like those who stay around Ustasha Street or the Special Court of Organized Crime, but they are in their homes and in their companies, but unfortunately Belgrade has suffered. We don't want him to suffer Belgrade. We don't want Serbia to suffer. We want to hire Serbia. We want to build both Belgrade and the rest of Serbia. And now, and in this business, for which we call you today, come and control, come and see, come and give an idea, come and participate, but no, it is hard for you, too. But it's nice to learn some recitation, it's nice to charge and get out of here. Mr Bozovic, the hand is provided and we will provide it today and tomorrow and whenever we need it, it is not difficult for us, but in that, I cannot clearly define that motive, except for some political hatred and regret for past times, which has led you, which has blinded you, you will not stop us from doing this job, reforming our society and making this country a good and quality place for all our children and for your children and for all future generations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25402	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr Bozovicu, you have the right to a replica and you will get it, but before that, the minister has a word. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: I advertise the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25403	Dear Mr. Becic, I'd like to advertise two members of the Rules of Procedure that I believe you have violated. The first member is 104, which determines the duration of the replica. To me, as far as I know, Mrs Gojkovic has agreed with Mr Babic that there are two minutes for the replica, plus the time he will use to talk about the amendment. Mr Babic instead had one big line of seven minutes and fifty-seven seconds, which seems to me not allowed and enters what else I want to advertise, which is a member of the Rules of Procedure 106 which obliges speakers to speak about what is the point of the agenda. Mr Babic not only has now violated it but has announced that SNS MPs will do so regularly, that they will read some papers, because that is the only thing they have about the corruption committed by DS, all by saying that he does not want to interfere in the work of the judiciary. I'm just asking you to explain to me, if we're in the part of a session where colleagues are being accused of corruption, can we also talk about those colleagues who already have court rulings? As far as I know, the only colleague of ours who has already been convicted and facing a judicial verdict is our President of the Assembly, which the Supreme Court has found guilty of the damages of four million euros that has been inflicted on the city of Novi Sad. If we're in that part of the session, please tell us that we can function as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25404	Miss Jerkov, you've come forward after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. All this time in violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is your manner, we're used to it, Miss Jerkov, so that doesn't surprise us. I think you've made it clear and said what it was and was the fact that Mr. Babic spoke in the replica for two minutes, and the other five minutes were taken away from him from the time of the parliamentary group. So it's not true what you tried to insinuate that the replica was in secret for seven minutes. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. I would ask you to be present and to vote in favour of this violation of the Rules of Procedure. Just wait for Mr. Vujovic to have an exhibition, and you will be entitled to the replica. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25405	Thank you. I don't know where we broke the discussion, and I don't really know if I should answer because my main answer was related to the appearance of contradictions contained within five years that are left for expropriation within ten years, which is planned as a deadline for building projects and deadlines that are within the basic law. Here, I think it is very important that our viewers and MPs understand that there is no contradiction, it is common everywhere in the world. Large projects are being carried out in phases, and fiscal constraints are being defined annually, with our maximum three-year plans. If you want to find the culprit, it's my fault we're looking for it for five years and we don't want to get out of the budget projection framework for land expropriation. So we're asking it to be real and not to stop the project but not to invest before the time. In other words, one small part of the land will be provided by expropriation and that is a comment on the previous one discussion. Not most, but minorities, and that is the essence of this. So the right, the public interest is precisely that the minority property here is brought into line, transferred to the Republic and the city of Belgrade in order to enable the realisation of a larger plan. I'd like to talk about a spatial plan of special purpose. The fact that he is in the text called "Belgrade on Water" is a concrete idea that still needs to be realized. It's just about to be made, so plans, projects, realisation, it's just about to happen. This creates assumptions about this project, we don't jump ahead. As is said, this year, from an existing budget location, 850m euros for expropriation in the coming years are estimated for the next four years, a total of 40m euros, about eight or ninem euros annually, nine and a halfm euros annually, which fully fits into the expected budgetary frameworks in the coming years. There's no secret, there's no problem. The risks you're talking about are one infrastructure-moving project, railways and other projects that have been waiting for 30, 40, 45 years. Which has already been invested in huge funds in the '70s. The excavation will have a huge rate of vomiting because we will bring in hundreds of millions already invested in the project. Yes, hundreds and hundreds of millions, and perhaps billions, already invested long ago in the project, the cost of preserving the project was enormous. It is high time for Belgrade to become a European city and to have a railway station that will not be, I say, an obstacle to normal traffic in the city. All European cities had this problem, as they had railway stations developed by the 19th century concept, where they came to the city centre. Moscow, for example, suffers terrible from it. Belgrade will solve this with Prokop, and this will free this area. Whether or not a project like this will be realized on it, whether or not your fears, whether someone will give up after a year or not, we are trying to minimise all the risks...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25406	Time, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25407	... including financial risks. So if we fix this and the investor builds the first two buildings, take a piss, and leave Belgrade...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25408	Time, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25409	... We will be zero and from the point of view of the city's arrangement and from the point of view of municipal infrastructure and from the point of view of expropriation of this entire move that covered 177 hectares covered by this project. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25410	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly and chairing today's session, Mr. Becic, the honourable ministers and honored guests, here you are, Mr. Becic, obviously, violated Article 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, concerning the maintenance of order at the meeting of the National Assembly. Maintaining order means that when a minister is visiting the National Assembly and participates in an amendment debate, he has two minutes to speak on one amendment. Mr. Vujovic now spoke for four minutes and then he finished his speech and you did not give yourself another warning measure, Mr. Becic, because you violated the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Secretary had all the time in this world that Tuesday when we discussed this bill in principle, he spoke, so as much as he wanted. The Prime Minister has indeed and used his right to do so as provided for by the Rules of Procedure. But, today, Mr. Becic, today the ministers need to listen a little bit more, in two minutes you need to put your comment on each individual amendment, and your role, Mr. Becic, is to make sure that at the meetings of the National Assembly, when you chair these sessions, you respect the rules, respected gentlemen, the procedures and that we have order at the meetings of the National Assembly. If you, the Honorable Chairman, violate that order, violate the rules, violate the procedures, then we also come to the violation of Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which now concerns the dignity of our Assembly as a central political institution in our constitutional system, sanctuary, Mr. Becic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25412	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. As I said in the afternoon debate, the moment you misused reporting by the Rules of Procedure, which you did now, because you had some kind of replica. You've been taken two minutes. I'm ordering the service to take two minutes for a breach of the rules of procedure. You were very well and heard that I warned Mr. Secretary, that I had warned him twice that the time had elapsed. I didn't want to interrupt Mr. Secretary in half a sentence. I think it is also important for the citizens of Serbia to say a sentence to the end to make it clear what he wanted to say. Anyway, I warned, so I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. You took advantage of the report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure to abuse this Rules of Procedure and you gave us lessons here, a place to just point out what a violation of the Rules of Procedure is, so I'm taking two minutes out of five minutes. Thank you. It'll also take you three hours to get away with what you've been saying for more than two minutes. Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Mr. Pavicevic, you know that the Rules of Procedure cannot, Mr. Pavicevic. You think you can do anything, but unfortunately it'll take a long time to make it true, but most likely never. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25413	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Can you just give me back the time? Today, the head of the SNS parliamentary group spoke of investigating some people who were the leaders of the former city government. I would ask Mr Babic to take note that no one has been convicted and that he does not judge them personally, because he is not a court and no verdict exists that anyone is guilty, which means that these people are innocent. When it comes to Mr. Cvijo Babic as the director of the Belgrade Vodavoda, it is strange to mention him personally, for the simple reason that his results today are most praised and Mr. Jovičić and Mr. Mayor Sinisa Mali are raised. Makish 2 is the most modern factory in Europe, as far as I could hear, and has just built and finished Mr. Cvijo Babic. When it comes to Dr. Professor. Bojan Pajtic. I understand the fascination of Pajtic's results in Vojvodina and I pray to the government of Serbia at this time that at least part of the results that Bojan Pajtic made in Vojvodina, they make in Serbia, so that there will be more happiness here for people and for their future when it comes to our country. When we talk about the arm, Mr. Babie, we can't give up our hand when the Constitution breaks and when the law is broken. I didn't accidentally say it was a blurry job. We don't vote for this law and we suggest that it be wiped out for your own good, Mr. Babic, so that tomorrow you don't have a problem in front of the judicial authorities, not you personally, but those who have proposed this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25414	I thank Mr. Bozovic and don't, please, I almost didn't experience the shock of it happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25415	I hope not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25416	Replica, Zoran Babic, mentioning the name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25417	I spoke very precisely of investigations, no indictments, no convictions, because this is neither a courtroom nor a single gesture to influence an independent branch of power that is finally with the SNS government and with Minister Selakovic, finally an independent branch of government. I'm surprised that as a kind of lawyer, Mr. Bozovic, you don't know what an investigation is, what an indictment is, what a confirmed indictment is, and what a verdict and these are quite different things, very precisely defined about which I spoke very precisely. I am pleased that you are with all concentration, activity, and Mr Bozovic is one of the more active MPs, but with all your efforts you have failed to tell us any result from Bojan Pajtic. Here, I haven't heard a single result, there was an announcement, and here I'm going to say, but somehow for these 20 years Bojan Pajtic, I haven't seen a single result, except for the personal results, personal property and everything acquired in these 20 years, but for the results, it's not, it's tripled, and I'm ready to have a session of the National Assembly, thematical special about the results of Bojan Pajtic's work. I think it will be the shortest in history – beopapire, nothing, tajac, no single result, no single argument, nothing. I think it will be the shortest session of the National Assembly in the history of parliamentaryism, because Mr Pajtic was in the shadows or in the sun or wherever he was, it is important to keep his hands in his pockets and that he is everywhere, only in his workplace and that he is everywhere but not where his job is, because above all, he is paid by Serbian citizens in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25418	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25419	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I really had to react to something that was total legal nonsense, absolute legal nonsense, and I'm surprised that my esteemed colleague Bozovic didn't understand what he was saying, and he said, that is, he threatened to prosecute the judicial authorities of those who proposed such a law. Is that man aware of what he said? Are you contesting the government of the Republic of Serbia, which has been granted the right to propose laws to the National Assembly, to propose them? Even if it were possible, even if knowledge of the constitutional-legal matter is a colleague of Bozovic at that level, so that he can, unlike all of us, see ahead, predict that this bill, when adopted, may be unconstitutional. I ask the question, then, what responsibility for this system, a little before, deserves the one who proposed, adopted and for years carried out the unconstitutional statute of the AP Vojvodina? More than two-thirds of the act was advertised by unconstitutional, usurped responsibilities, implemented something absolutely contrary to the letter of the Constitution. Finally, now that corrected corrected statute will not apply. They will not make a good decision on the use of the traditional symbols of the AP Vojvodina, they are ashamed of the Duke of Šupljik, they are ashamed of Patriarch Rajačić, they are ashamed of others. Indeed, I ask you to react next time someone threatens the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it proposes laws to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25420	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Jovicic, at the presentation of Mr Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25421	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, it hurts when someone says that we brag about DS results when we talk about plumbing, or "Maquis 2". I will reveal one secret to you, and Mr Bozovic may not have been sufficiently involved in the process of what was going on with Makisa 2. The first and key problem we had when we took responsibility in the city of Belgrade as regards water and sewerage was how to convince the Israeli Dahal firm not to break the contract with Belgrade, because of those who misunderstood the contract in the previous period. It was our first assignment, because people couldn't believe that everything you agreed with them, you didn't honor anything. I don't want to go into whether there was anything else aside that you might have been looking for something that wasn't called public interest, but that's known to you personally, let's not accuse, I won't, but what the mayor of Belgrade and the manager of the city of Goran Vesic did, it's to preserve that contract and prove it to a foreign investor, so to speak, the company that gave the funds to build the Makish 2 that and how it needs the city of Belgrade, to convince them that there are people who are responsible here, to restore the trust of foreign companies, because it wasn't just a foreign company, there are our companies, and in one good part, they participated in the project. Then how can you say we're boasting about your results? We don't brag. You are talking about murky shops, and six million euros alone cost King Alexander more to the citizens of Belgrade. Mr Bozovicu, just to translate, that's 24,000 pensions in Serbia that you've denied Serbian citizens, and then you're saying that you've raised pensions and salaries, so we see how.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25422	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25423	I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25424	Please complete the circle of replicas, please don't cause any new replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25425	I don't want to. It's a deal. What is important is just to respond and for the record, it would be better to talk about "Belgrade on Water" which the government of the Republic of Serbia also says might be realised. So we're entering into a 3.5 billion-euro investment of Serbian citizens with maybe the assets of the investor building will go away and that's how we spend money from the budget and that we accuse anyone or that we threaten anyone, that's not true at all. We're just saying that against this bill for the sake of those who have some money from the city budget, we spent the next day of the Republic on this project without a contract to build "Boograda on water", without pre-contracting the construction of "Beograd on water" we just said that one day the judicial authorities will have their hands full and we don't want it. That's why we can't lay hands on this job because it's not in the citizens' interest, it's not in your interest either. So, what is related to the fascination of Mr Pajtic's results with 100,000 employees more, with 80% of the total investment is in Vojvodina, with awards and international recognitions received by the government of AP Vojvodina as the European region most favourable to investment, with a self-employment programme, with schools, health homes and all other things that are equipped and renovated during the government of Bojan Pajtic. What I end up with, and I want to underline more, is that I don't need to turn this debate into a hack into individual DS members here, I think it's very important that we talk about what's true, what the government and ministers are avoiding, and that's "Belgrade on Water" and about the harmfulness of this project to the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25426	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25427	Here, I'm fascinated by how Mr. Pajtic did especially at the Capital Investment Fund, and I think that Borovic and the many others he gave credit to, but we're not getting into it now, to get back to the amendment itself. You know, I've heard some amazing things here today from a man I thought had a little more modern understanding. He told us he didn't want Belgrade to be like Abu Dhabi. I really want to be Belgrade like Abu Dhabi. Where good luck for tourists to come to us and have such universities, Mr Selakovic listed here what kind of university center and science centre Abu Dhabi, so let's have good luck to be around Abu Dhabi, and not to have what you left down there – the wrinkles, mosquitoes, frogs, snakes, etc. Here someone said, and yet, it seems to me to be an esteemed colleague, says – it's a friend, a friend of the prime minister's friend sheik. You know, for the friendship of that sheik, both Obama and Putin and all the world leaders are much stronger countries than we are. We can be proud that our prime minister is exactly what he wants to invest here, because you said one wrong thing, we don't get into a 3.5 billion-euro investment, because we don't have the money to give, someone else gives money. It's not what you from our budget and from all of us took, so you gave the company that built the bridge on Ada and whose director was arrested in Slovenia, you did it and how in a suspicious way you put the saws on the same bridge and took that kind of money to the citizens, you did it, you took the money from the budget. We don't have that money, someone else is coming and investing, and we're going to get something that's very nice and that's going to be proud of the Belgraders. I'll tell you again, if at least you've cleaned up some of that stuff down there, maybe none of us should be able to say anything to you right now, but you're against something that can be nice and where we can really be proud of. It's like you're against life. I don't know, you're not for "Belgrade on Water," so tell us what you're for, are you for that mockery to stay down like that? After all, you've had 15 years of government, actually since 1996, and let's take it that it was SPO, never mind, 15 years of government you had here. Why didn't you do something in our coast? What do we have there? It's a shame, you know, someone's going on a Danube cruise, going to the Black Sea, it's a shame to really stop in Belgrade, because when he sees that jungle running away with its head no matter what. So the only thing I can't understand is that someone is so against everything. In history we had one politician, if it was a politician, it was a dictator. Say Paul Pot, that was against everything, against the system, against the money, against the money, so I look at you somehow, you're absolutely against everything that's normal in this society and give people a bang once in your life, try to be alive for something, not just because you're an opposition to being against something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25428	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25429	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, of course, I find the amendment unacceptable because it deletes part of an extremely important law that will allow one of the most significant projects in Serbia to be implemented over the past 20 years. A project that will employ more than 10,000 people and not only that, a project where the construction itself is expected to employ between 22,000 and 25,000 construction workers, measured by the ratio of the average number of workers and the average number of squares built in the previous period. A project that will certainly push the economy and help Serbia's economy and will increase Serbia's GDP because we know when we stimulate the construction industry to stimulate GDP in this way, which will certainly contribute to a better standard for citizens. However, I would like to draw attention to, here we have spoken, even the opposition mentions some criminal responsibility in relation to this project, mentions some projects involving the realization of some projects involving the current Dukean prime minister. I must mention that it was done by the current Dukean Prime Minister, what did that government do from 2009 to 2012. One such project is, for example, a project that was done by the Institute for the Construction of the City and then the Director of the Institute for the Construction of the City, which is now in place by one opposition party, we have a report by the Budgetary Inspectorate on works on the construction of the Subotic and Sombor boulevara, which says that from 2009 to 2012, then the Department of the City Construction Office violated the Law on Public Procurement and other regulations and damaged the city by hundreds of millions of dinars. For example, the inspection found that the contract with the firm, I will not mention the company's name, worth nearly 146 million dinars, was signed with the violation of the Public Procurement Act because it was not a respected time limit for appeals. The same gaps were found with another company worth nearly 242m dinars for basic and 34m dinars for additional works. The documentation confirms that the deadlines at this part of the Subotic Boulevard were breached because it was originally due in 2011 and ended only on 15 October 2011. Also, he says – The inspection found that the ZIG administration then did not charge for 126 days at the level of 36 million dinars, but on the other hand charged an additional 5.6 million dinars due to an error in the account.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25430	Mr. Micchin, you must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25431	I'll be right back to the amendment. So here we have the elements of criminal responsibility, four people currently being prosecuted for all this, and therefore I ask that the opposition not mention criminal responsibility in this project, which is for the benefit of Serbian citizens, unlike what they've been doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25432	Thank you, Mr. Michin. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Professor Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branko Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karić and joint MPs Boris Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozović, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The word of the messenger of the people is that of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25433	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Another member who talks about expropriation and let's say once again that we're looking for an expropriation of this member, since you and those MPs and ministers who convince us here that this law should be adopted with a lot of nice and big words, to try to cloud the essence, and the essence is very simple. The point is that the government of the Republic of Serbia is asking the Serbian Parliament to declare building private apartments and a private shopping centre a public interest, which is something contrary to the laws of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is something that will certainly be the subject of a variety of investigations, a process that will be conducted and certainly those who are thus trying to damage the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it is not a procedure that the government is doing, but rather a job for which every employee of the Republic of Serbia should pay more than 2,000 euros. The government of the Republic of Serbia will certainly bear any kind of responsibility for this job when it is unequivocally found that this is contrary to the law and that citizens of the Republic of Serbia are expected to finance the adventure of Alexander Vukic, his dreams and to finance the projects of his friend. Mr. Micin spoke, you allowed him again, Mr. Becic, in the end asking him not to, about some things he read in the paper. If that's the case, we can read the judgments, Mr. Becic, but don't do it like that. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25434	What should we not do? I just want to warn you in the Rules of Procedure that you're not talking about the amendment, that everything you've said has nothing to do with this amendment. If you don't know which amendment is on the agenda... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I know very well what the amendment is on the agenda. I'll read it to you. You asked for article six to be deleted. Article 6 reads - according to the proposal for expropriation, the authority of the local self-government unit in charge of property legal affairs, in the following text, the competent authority. What does this amendment have to do with what you've said so far in these two minutes? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the scene: turn on my microphone so I don't yell.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25435	The connection is that we believe that this land cannot be the subject of expropriation because building private apartments for 3000 euros per square, building a private market centre cannot be a public interest. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25436	Miss Jerkov, if you don't understand that what you're saying has nothing to do with the amendment, I have no way of explaining it to you. I can read it to you one more time. So the text of the draft law of Article 6 reads - according to the proposal for expropriation is solved by the local self-government authority responsible for property legal affairs. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: You cannot understand. I can't understand that you're talking about something else entirely, that you haven't read the amendment and come here without any argument and talk like you're in a principle debate. Please understand that this is a debate in particular, that we are now on the amendment to Article 6 which reads - according to the proposal for expropriation is resolved by the authority of the local self-government unit in charge of property legal affairs. Thank you, Miss Jerkov. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I would now according to the Rules of Procedure, because you have exceeded your powers. I overstepped my powers to remind you of what this amendment reads. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Let me explain why. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25437	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, there is a member of 100. Rules of Procedure and there are rules in this Rules of Procedure which oblige you to leave the presidency to one of... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25438	It's not worth it, Miss Jerkov, you don't understand anything or it's not clear to us, to all the other MPs. MPs warn me not to talk about the amendment. I read the amendment. You're not talking about that amendment, you've mixed the amendments. Please allow someone else to speak now. Here you go. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25439	In accordance with Article 6 of the proposal for expropriation, the authority of the local self-government unit shall be responsible for property-legislative matters (hereinafter referred to as the competent authority). What other organ can do this? Who else can deal with expropriation business other than the authority responsible for property operations in local self-government. That's another nonsens. It's to add here that there are not a few members who are the basis for the cloudy actions that we've talked about, but to make one larger number of members. There's more of them. Let's say, Article 14, later, and some of which are placed only as a decoration on this which should be adopted and create conditions to get into something no one understands what is being built, where it is being built, why it is being built, who is financing, in which time frames and for whose benefit. I've heard a lot of MPs here who have said very clearly and publicly that they would like Belgrade to be Abu Dhabi. Not to mention, but one 5-6 of them are very honest, with a smile on their faces, saying they would like Belgrade to be Abu Dhabi. I think it's a good thing and it's one big breakthrough, and probably hence the party's name -- the Serbian Progressive Party, because it's a dramatically better attitude than the attitude that was with the same people 15 years ago that it should be killed by 100 Muslims. I think the progress is very great, and from this base I welcome such progress... The MPs speak out loud. [[off microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25440	Mr. Zivkovic, I only ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, to respect your colleagues, because the way you do it is not appropriate for this National Assembly. Today we've been experiencing threats, beating us, verbally trying to deal with us. Don't continue in the National Assembly. As colleagues, we should face the opinion, face policies, not act that way. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Djukanovic, Mr. Martinovic, replica Mr. Jovicic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25441	Mr. Becicu, Article 107, but also Article 109. You were obliged to give the MP a warning just a moment ago, because this is a flagrant call for one racial and national impatience, first of all. It's a real shame that we're listening here, while someone without a pardon is lying like this in the Assembly, and that it really refers to a national group, where it's allegedly claimed that someone has asked to kill 100 Muslims. You know, you were obliged to give such an MP a warning. I call upon you to do so, and surely every SNS position, and especially that we make Belgrade an economically strong centre, such as Abu Dhabi, much better than the attitude to take loans from the state to have your vineyards, and it's irrevocable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25442	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. As you saw, I reacted and did not allow the MP to continue with such threats and insults. Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25443	Article 104. I have the right to a replica, because I've been mentioned, but to use the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You took away my word, because I commended my colleagues that they had progressed, and what I gave confirmation of their progress on the Internet can be found in 100 places out of your mouth and recorded by the president of the SNS, who was then in another party. I said that gentlemen, the advancers are making progress and I'm staying on that statement. There was no reason to take my word. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure and I'm looking for... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25444	Mr. Zivkovic, we've had opportunities in this House many times to hear you say something, so you say you didn't say it. That's not the first time you've said it, say a curse and some other stuff, and then say you didn't say it, even though the cameras recorded it, like this. We'll have a stenogram of what you said. I believe I have not violated the Rules of Procedure, that I have not allowed you to continue to insult the MPs and insult the party and speak these words in this high house. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I demand votes. You're asking to vote. I would ask you to be present because you are never present when you vote on the violations of the Rules of Procedure you seek. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: It is my right. I thank you, I just asked you to be present. It is your right if you will and will not. The word is Mr. Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25445	Mr. Becic, a member of 106 has been injured who says the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, for who knows which time he spoke outside the agenda, told one faceless lie that SNS President Aleksandar Vukic was anywhere and ever asked to kill 100 Muslims. I think that Mr. Becic, for such an insult and such a slander, not only Alexander Vukic but also the state of Serbia, you had to give Mr. Zivkovic the most drastic sanction that was provided for the Rules of Procedure. That's one thing. The second thing, if you noticed today is that same Mr. Zoran Zivkovic at a press conference he held in the National Assembly's hall, said it was a condition for Serbia to enter the EU, to give up Kosovo and Metohija, that it was a condition since 2000, and Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, who is now waving his hands here, was unfortunately Serbian citizens, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia for a time in 2003. So in 2003, he was the Prime Minister who was strategically, at least in words defined for Serbia's entry into the EU, and he also knew that today he acknowledged that the condition for EU accession is to give up Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Balsa Bozovic today said that the results of Professor Bojan Pajtic and that it should be transferred from Vojvodina to Serbia? Tell me, what is meant by Serbia? So Vojvodina is not Serbia. Mr. Nikola Selakovic made it very clear that it was actually the programming definition of DS. You do not want the traditional symbols of Vojvodina, so you clearly separate Vojvodina from Serbia. I ask you, Mr. Becic, stop this humiliation of the dignity of the National Assembly, this insult of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this attempt to lack of arguments to attack a bill relating to "Belgrade on Water", actually leads against the president of the SNS and Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25446	Mr. Martinovic, it will take you a minute, because you are in part to take advantage of reporting by the Rules of Procedure. So I'm taking a minute. I'm asking the service to deliver a stenogram. If Mr. Zivkovic said so, he will follow the Rules of Procedure accordingly. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: Did he say 100 Muslims should be killed?) ) Mr. Martinovic, I can't teach anyone home-schooling. I can also not prevent individual representatives of the opposition, in this case Mr. Zivkovic, who, even now that he has said that his right, has again spoken a curse, which has also been recorded, so I have no opportunity to prevent Mr. Zivkovic, except to ask him not to do it in this high house anymore, but everyone has brought it from home. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25447	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 107. The speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, you had to react and give a warning here. I was an SRS MP, never at any time any other member of the national minority or any other people, just because another religion or member of another people wanted no harm. That's what we've been proving. I've proven my example. We had fellow Members of the Muslims. We now have at our parliamentary club fellow Members of the Muslim Faith who was on the DOS list, who voted in favour of Mr. Zivkovic's government, who also shot down Mr. Zivkovic's government. That's why he shot down Mr. Zivkovic's government is talking about what Mr. Zivkovic is like as prime minister. Imagine if a man like that were to be prime minister again. We would either be closed or in concentration camps. In his example, he proved “the sword. ”
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25448	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. My explanation, like Mr. Martinoc, I have no ability to prevent someone verbally from the assembly benches from pointing to swearing and other threats. But I'm sure when I get a stenogram I'll be determined accordingly, if that's spoken of, there'll be a reminder by the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25449	Article 108 at the session. You said I sweared at the session today. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25451	That's absolutely not true. I'd like you to say I cursed it. You can look for a stenogram as long as you like, I've never cursed in the assembly, today especially not five minutes ago. What I've been quoting on something called "the tab" has 534.162 reviews, so I suggest you go to "the tab" and look at the statement I was talking about, not to mention any name again. Everyone knows in Serbia who said it, when he said it and why he said it. That's what you told Martinovic to do, that he betrayed those foundations of your ideology. So it's not a curse, it's an absolute truth, it checks with material evidence and it's seen by 534.162 people on a globe of Earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25452	I thank Mr. Zivkovic, since you have abused the Rules of Procedure, I am taking up a minute. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You have nothing. Next time, I'll remember. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25453	Mr. Becic, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, for example, could go to this famous "tub" and find his photo at the Red Berets camp, where he was photographed by then the interior minister of the Republic of Serbia Dusan Mihajlovic, the Legion and other commanders who were then heroes of the five-eyed revolution, in order to become the worst villains in the world in 2003, right, Mr. Zivkovic? For you, Mr. Legion was a hero because he allowed you to take over power in Serbia on 5 October 2000. On "the tab" you will find 1,000 pictures of you, Dusan Mihajlovic, not to list all DOS officials who took pictures with these same people. That's one thing. The second thing is, I don't understand that you would be a greater friend of Muslims than these friends of ours from the UAE, from other parts of the Arab world who want to invest in Serbia. If that's true what you're saying, it's impossible that you're the only one using it, that it's not used in the UAE or anywhere else in the Arab world. You have the exclusive right to use "the tab" and only you know that Alexander Vukic said you should kill 100 Muslims. I'm asking you now where he said it, who he said it to, where was it? Tell us, don't refer us to "the tab," say he said here and there, he should do it and do it. And your paintings, Mr. Zivkovic, testify to what your rule was, criminal, thieving and mobsteric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25454	Mr. Martinovic, since you have not called on a member, you have misused the Rules of Procedure, I am subtracting two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you. Mr. Jovicic, on what grounds? (Alexander Jovičić, from the place: Replica, from 30 minutes ago. ) Replica, but priority is the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25455	Article 103 of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure by a previous debater who has spent all the time he has exceeded, otherwise he has spent very much speaking directly to me, which you should not speak to him, secondly - to speak out of subject, which you should not allow him, thirdly - only in the end you warned him not to mention which member he is calling. So you should've cut him off earlier. I think it's as clear as day, by the way it's said...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25456	Mr. Zivkovic, I let you go while you called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now it's my duty to explain. I had to listen to Mr. Martinovic. I believe he's broken his report to the Rules of Procedure. That's why he's been taken two minutes and I don't see what's going on here. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Yes) Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, to return to the agenda. Replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25457	Thank you, Your Honor. As authorized, I had to respond to the mention of the SNS and another sentence spoken by my colleague, which is that we want Abu Dhabi in Belgrade, and that some 15 years ago called for something else. I would have just met, Mr. Chairman, a colleague that 15 years ago I was not in any party, and that today when I am at SNS, I support Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and I want developed, modern, economically strong Abu Dhabi in Belgrade. On the other hand, who's giving us a lecture? I was not in politics 15 years ago, but 12 years ago, I was surprised to say that at a time when a colleague here, sitting in the Serbian Parliament, was the minister of internal affairs, how much prosperity was in the country and how it was done in the country, how safe it was. The prime minister of a Serbian country was killed, and it was the president of the party that the man belonged to. Imagine who's giving us the lecture. We don't want Serbia any more than 15 years ago or 20 years ago. We want to see what Serbia will be like in 10, 15 and 20 years, and that's where we differ. This nostalgia, when someone was Prime Minister, so he always goes back to the past to somehow prove his superiority and results that he didn't achieve because we didn't see them, obviously wants us back in the past. We don't want that. You have also lost the president of the party, unfortunately the prime minister of this country, whom we all respect, but do not give us a lecture. We want Belgrade modern, developed, economically strong, just as opposed to what you've been doing, because you've brought us into the hopelessness we're in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25458	Time. (Zoran Zivkovic from town: Replica. ) Mr. Djurishic, do you want to speak according to the amendment? Here you go. Do you want to speak by amendment? [[Marko Djurisic, from the post: You have an intervention for replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25459	Thank you, Your Honor. Ministers, we asked that this member be deleted because it is inaccurate and is not in accordance with other laws that apply in the Republic of Serbia. So here is mentioned – the local self-government unit responsible for property-legal affairs. The Law on Local Self-Government provides that the authorities of the local self-government unit are the congregations of the municipality, i.e. the president of the municipality or mayor of the municipal and municipal administration. So, there is no such body anywhere in the law, so we think that this formulation is imprecise and also unnecessary because, as in some other things that this law does not treat, it is called for by the Expropriation Act, in the Expropriation Act, it is exactly how and which body acts and how real and local jurisdiction is determined. We believe that this article in this law is completely excessive, that it brings in one confusion, that it does not bring in real stability but instability, and that there is simply no place for this member, this law, in any law. Of course, the government has rejected this amendment. She said the authority of the local self-government unit decides, but as defined in this law, the body responsible for property legal affairs does not exist in the Law on Local Self-Government. I've listed to you the organs of local self-government. There's no organ in charge of property. There are services in the municipalities, but these are not bodies in accordance with the law. We believe this member has to be wiped out for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25460	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. Mr. Selakovic, you gave up? Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've heard everything here now. Local self-government is a special level of government. It has its original powers regulated by law. He's got a transfer of jurisdiction. So the Republic's powers that the Republic trusts local self-government and local self-government, according to its internal systematization, and we can't take that away from it, because it wouldn't even be called the local self-government if it didn't have the right to do so, it formed its services to carry out entrusted tasks by the Republic. I'm surprised these applicants of the amendment don't know this. But I would rather say that there is someone here who makes me not to say what for one simple reason – the realisation of this project will question the very high price of apartments in the territory of the City of Belgrade, and many have really invested a lot with the intention of making a lot more money than it is normal. It will no longer cost apartments in Vrakar two, three thousand euros. It will no longer be possible for someone to say that the professional public is doing projects on Vracar and is charging 150,200 euros each for building a building. It won't be possible for some city councils to issue a building permit to know how much of the reference belongs to the square. What are you saying that's not true? It's very true. Here, all the haikas around Beograda on Water are not about protecting Belgrade's interests, but because of the interest of a small group that has been terrorising Belgrade and its residents for almost 15 years. And when it comes to the professional public, it's just an excuse because they've been building these projects and embezzling into these apartments that cost three, four thousand euros a square meter. I know in Nebojsina that just across the street from the side to Karadjordje's park a duplex apartment costs four thousand euros. It's where an unprotected shark is taken by a spider. That's exactly the location. I'm supposed to say who bought that apartment? Well, he won't have to pay so expensive when this project comes to life. It'll be much cheaper. Now he's spent a lot more money, so now he can sell the apartment for a lot less. I'm sorry, I can't help him much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25462	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I am the applicant of the amendment. Here you go. Amendment Proposer Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25463	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to use the remaining three amendments minutes, unless you change your mind and you think I have five full minutes because you were wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25464	You have a total of five. Two and three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25465	Okay. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, honourable Ministers Selakovic and Vujović, honored guests, Mr Vice President, expropriation which now concerns our debate over the amendment to Article 6. The bill of law, I will repeat that, always, respected gentlemen, is being carried out for a pre-defined project of public interest envisaged by the regulatory plan. During the debate today and in the conversation, I argued in a dialogue with Mr Selakovic that the project was not available. Mr Selakovic said in one replica – the project has, or there is a plan of special purpose, but I said there is no project. Then Mr Selakovic answered – no, no, you did not read the explanation well, on page 7. There's no project, Mr. Selakovic. Mr. Vujovic also said that today. There's no project, the project's just coming, and we're expropriating. Dear gentlemen, that doesn't make sense. Mr. Nejko Jovanovic, that doesn't make sense. Another thing I wanted to say about this amendment also concerns this area covered by Mr. Selakovic, but also Mr. Nejo Jovanovic. The basic problem of this bill, which is why, I think, is not suited to this offer to give a hand, to discuss it now, because, which violates the Constitution – to satisfy the private interest, gentlemen. We can't give each other a hand about it. At least here, MPs, I think, we should be focused primarily on preserving the basic principles of our Constitution, and the basic principle of our Constitution is the rule of law, gentlemen. We can't shake hands and agree to violate the rule of law. It's an absolute sign that we're not aimed at general good, I think. From antiquity, it's a sign to this day, dear gentlemen. The third thing - on behalf of nothing can be taken away from property, so it sells to private persons. And this in the name of nothing is just a sign and another notice that there is no project. Where does that happen, gentlemen? Here we heard today's debate and the invitation to the communist heritage, some MPs were calling, the SPS gentlemen and well, they are also heirs in some way, and I understand that. But here, I informed myself, preparing for this debate, and in communism in 1948. Nikola Dobrovic, Novi Belgrade, an idea plan, Dobrovic for Novi Belgrade, which was mentioned by Mrs Vukomanovic, an idea general plan in 1948. Tito, the absolute ruler of that state, did not come up with himself, gentlemen, but was consulted by Jovin, Paunovic, Stosic, Kabiljo, Katanic, who consulted the profession, respected gentlemen. And we, in democratic terms, call a democratic state, are not consulting the profession. We saw how the waist reacted to this. People said -- a foreign body in Belgrade's tissue. And we're taking it as a lex special now. Or, gentlemen, it is mentioned here that "Belgrade on the Water" is going to be something like the Eiffel Tower, it will attract tourists, they will climb the elevators up to not know which floors. Look out, gentlemen, calling the Eiffel Tower, while eliminating all the importance and importance of the competition institution, well, the Eiffel Tower was a solution that was winning in one contest. And here is Mr. Selakovic and Mr. Prime Minister, there is no one not from this government who has failed to minimize the importance of competition when we're negotiating something. But the competition is appreciated with us, too. Here, in 1921 -- the expansion of Belgrade across the river, gentlemen. New Belgrade, Socialist gentlemen, 1962 -- first competition, then plan. And in 2015, we don't respect the rule of law, we don't respect the profession, we don't respect or advertise competitions, and what do we do? We're doing damage to ourselves first, gentlemen. And who's gonna respect us if we don't appreciate ourselves doing this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25466	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a minister, Mr. Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25467	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, first chair, please tell me because we are discussing the law here or expropriating? I've heard and quoted earlier -- we're expropriating here, and then we're dragging Belgrade on the water. Since I am personally quoted as saying that there is a plan, as it is now suddenly said that there is a plan, and just before someone told me – there is a regulation. Then we can determine that someone has not even read the regulation, because they would understand that in addition to that regulation, the plan is also contained. That same person in his presentation is talking about the plan, and now, for the second time, he's talking about the project. I appreciate the academic excellence and honesty of every single person who owns it. It's for lawyers, and that's what separates them from other professions, extremely important language and every word. If it weren't for that, then anyone could be a lawyer, and everyone at birth, as he spoke, would get a degree in law school, but it's not like that. Therefore, we are not expropriating here, but indeed we from the government, as representatives of the promoters, are trying to constructively discuss this bill that will provide for expropriation. And criticizing something in advance, which didn't even begin, which wasn't even voted, which didn't come out, in a way to erase everything, you could have wiped out even if you took the trash and the mockery out of that part of Belgrade, and you didn't tell the demagogue story here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25468	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I've had several attempts, but it's not worth it, I can't explain to the opposition what's on the agenda and what amendment we're on. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, and then by the MP, Mr Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25469	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a few things. I have heard there are institutes - competitions, but there is an institution called the competition, I have not heard of it until today, until I was informed by Mr Pavicevic. Here today, as well as in principle, citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens are afraid to use one Latin coin "ex specialis". Now that you use those words "lex specialis", citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens can assume something terrible is ahead of them. What MPs of the former regime do not want to tell the citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens is that the bill does not suspend the Expropriation Act, the Law on Planning and Construction is not suspended, the Law on General Administrative Procedure is not suspended. Therefore, Article 1(2). The bill says nicely – only if this law is not otherwise defined will provisions of the Expropriation Act, which were narrated and cried out by the MPs of the former regime, be applied to the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, for which the MPs of the former regime cried out, and the provisions of the Law on General Administrative Procedure will apply. I doubt they've heard of this law, though. So it's not true that this is now some law that completely disrupts the concept of our legal system when it comes to expropriation, when it comes to the issue of building permits, when it comes to implementing a general administrative procedure. It's just enough to look at how many members this bill has, and there are 17 members, which is a relatively small bill per volume. So, it contains only some minimum deviations from the general regime of expropriation and the process of issuing building permits for the realisation of a project that is not only important for the City of Belgrade, but also important for all Serbia, because it will entail the employment of a complete construction operation and a complete construction sector in the Republic of Serbia, which the former regime, unfortunately, has systematically ruined. What is also surprising to me is that parties who boast of their alleged left-wing implementation, who are trying to present themselves as some Serbian version of Sirize, who act as Alexis Cipras, are afraid of expropriation, are afraid of becoming something state-owned. I want to remind the MPs of the former regime who became communist overnight and I have nothing against it, that's their right. The restriction on private property was also prescribed by the 1919 Weimar Constitution, which educated modern Germany, when Hitler was defeated in World War II and when it was brought into force the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany, which is called the basic law. The basic law stipulates that they remain in force under the appropriate provisions of the 1919 Weimar Constitution. Since 1919, all democratic states like Great Britain, like France, like Italy, like Spain, like the United States, have known the Institute of Expropriation, therefore, the disenfranchisement of a private owner for the benefit of the state. But this is not in any private interest, this is in the public interest and the bill of law, the proposal for a law on the establishment of public interest and the special procedures for the expropriation of the issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". The thing here is quite clear. The public interest is protected, the interests of the Republic of Serbia are protected, the interests of the City of Belgrade are protected, and the "Belgrade on Water" project itself is in the general national interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No damage to the Republic of Serbia through the realization of this project, not that it will not, but cannot endure. It is true when it is said that no expert on urban and architecture is consulted when the question of the project "Belgrade on Water". The prime minister told you nicely, the Office for Urbanism of the City of Belgrade participated, a number of prominent architects and urbanists working on the project "Belgrade on Water". It's no secret. These people have made statements in the media in recent days, past weeks and months, but for you, the professional public is only part of the professional public who criticises the project "Belgrade on Water". Those who say it's a good thing, you don't mention them at all. You're Mr. Pavicevic's name is one of your alleged experts from your party, so let me say I'm not an expert in urbanism and architecture, so I haven't heard of him, but I doubt you'd hear of him, too, that he's not a member of your party by any chance. So here's the thing completely clear. The constitution is protected. The general regime of expropriation is not suspended, the general regime of the issue of building permits is not suspended, the General Administrative Procedure Act is not suspended. This law itself, i.e. the bill of law, provides for only some of the minimum deviations in relation to these laws. To remind you, Mr. Pavicevic, you don't have to know that because you're not a lawyer, but those who advise you should know that. You have the General Administrative Procedure Act, but in addition to this General Administrative Procedure Act, you have dozens of laws containing norms, etc. Special administrative procedures in the area of construction, in the area of internal affairs, etc. No one ever said it was the opposite of the Constitution. You of the former regime first came up with this brilliant idea that when something is passed called the special law "lex specialis", it is the opposite of the Constitution. It's not. For example, the arms and ammunition law contains derogations from the regime prescribed by the general administrative procedure. The Law on Planning and Construction contains some derogations from the General Administrative Procedure Act. Many other laws in the Republic of Serbia contain some deviations from the general administrative procedure but cannot be deviated from the basic principles of the general administrative procedure. The basic principles of the general administrative procedure are also applicable in this draft law. If you had read it in more detail, you could have seen the Institute of Appeals, not the institution, but the Institute of Appeal, the Institute of Silence Administration. The Institute of Appeals in the event of silence of the administration, etc. These are all the crucial principles of a general administrative procedure that absolutely protects the rights of citizens of Serbia, i.e. in this particular case the rights of citizens who will be deprived of property in the general interest but with market compensation. I'm listening to you both yesterday and today, you're keeping the fact that it's contained in this bill. No one's gonna come in there to the Sava amphitheater and take someone's house away. Anyone deprived of private property will be compensated justly at market prices and you will not admit it. And you, Mr. Bozovic, I don't know if you've ever been to that part called the Sava Amphitheater.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25470	Please, Mr. Martinovic, don't speak directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25471	When a man listens to you, it turns out there are some fairies, there are some Latifundi that cost billions of euros, so now, my God, someone's gonna take that away from them. Is that so nice out there? Is that the kind of property that's worth it? Well, why don't you live there in the Sava amphitheater? Why does no member of the Democratic Party live in the Sava amphitheater? If that's the kind of value that's supposed to be threatened by this bill. So you deceive Serbian citizens, scare them, and think that none of Serbia's citizens and that none of the SNS knows what the word "lex specialis" means, that you are the most educated, most educated, and that you know everything. As far as you know, you've shown, unfortunately, citizens since 2000. You've ruined everything alive. You made Serbia the worst country in Europe. You don't have to give you the hand that Mr. Alexander Vukic gave you, as far as I'm concerned, you don't have to accept it, but you can't stop this government's efforts to get Serbia out of the mud, out of the mud, out of the fungi that you brought them into.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25472	Thank you. The word is Mr. Djukanovic, you have the word, and after the Business, the word is Mr. Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25473	I'll be brief, Mr. Becic, since we're really listening here today, but someone's talking about public interest, I don't know what. I'm only interested in one thing, because to agree on the public interest must be respected absolutely, so I'm interested, and what was in the public interest, let's say, when the GSP singled out a ticket payment and gave one private company a bag system the company was, by bus plus a system that otherwise insolved was completely, and she got credit after two years, and she had zero in the account. She received loans from the Vojvodjanska Banka one two and a half million euros, starting to charge transport tickets out of nothing. You made them such a contract that you couldn't even break it up, because if you broke it up, Belgrade would go bankrupt. I'm interested in what was in the public interest?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25474	Mr. Djukanovic, please, you must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25475	I'm going back because it's all about the city of Belgrade. I'm interested in what was in the public interest of city cleanliness buying the Inex building to accommodate the city's administration and destroy city cleanliness with such purchase, ten million euros spent on that building. What was there in the public interest? I'm sorry, I have to say something here. You disgust yourself on the word "lex specialis", a special law. I don't understand what's controversial about it. Well, in 1996, you didn't disgust yourself on "lex specialis" according to Gonzales' report to acknowledge your election results. You didn't even want to prosecute some people, but you moved to the chairs right away because on the basis of a report you were granted an election result, which was, of course, fine with you to admit it. But then you weren't disgusted at the "lex specialis". I just have to end up, Mr. Becic, you can't take away my word, because I speak absolutely in the subject. It is very important how much they know the law and the constitution to which they are so called. We have today the fact that they asked Alexander Vukic to take over Maja Gojkovic. I'm sorry, the prime minister in one country has never changed the president of parliament, so he won't now. This is not a dictatorship, it's not a projection that they might want, it's a normal country where the president changes in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25476	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. You must understand that Mr. Stefanovic does not know how it works, so he proposed that Mrs. Gojkovic and Mr. Becic be replaced. Parliament replaces Mr Stefanovic, it is not done by the prime minister. Thank you. The word is Mr. Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25477	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I was going to say that the speaker before the last speaker, so I answered, but you did not give me the floor with the Rules of Procedure, injure Member 107, or you, because you did not respond when the speaker did not respect the dignity of the National Assembly. It is said here that opposition MPs are calling and crying in their discussions. It would be like me saying that the government's MPs are blaspheming and blaspheming. We don't use expressions like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25478	Please don't. Don't, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25479	Don't put words like that into parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25480	So bring them in, now you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25481	You didn't react.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25482	I'm reacting now. I don't allow you to use words like that. You have two warnings, don't make us say the third. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: Let me finish.) You can't end up like that. Please, but don't do it like that. Come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25483	Thank you, Your Honor. So, narrating and crying is not what opposition MPs are doing today in parliament, but they're saying it's justified against the law they disagree with. That's the job of the opposition. That's what some MPs have been doing here for years. In addition to such discussions, they also had shoe shootings, and they had water spills. We don't do any of that. We're talking, we're talking against the law that we think is bad for Serbian citizens, that it won't do any good. So we don't call, we don't cry. Please respond. So you hurt the Rules of Procedure. You have a duty to act, not me to draw attention to you that you have not done what your job is and responded to such words. So, I'm not talking, I'm not bringing in such words and such a discussion in the Assembly, I'm bringing in colleagues from your Parliament club. Have the courage to stand up to them, take advantage of the right given to you by the Rules of Procedure and act alone without my intervention or the intervention of my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25484	How can I have the courage, Mr. Djurishich, when you said today you were going to beat the shit out of me? I can't say anything when it's you. Thank you. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: That's not true. ) ( Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica, mentioned me... . ) Mr Pavicevic, your name and name are mentioned, you will be entitled to the replica. Before that, the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25485	A member of the 108st, Mr. Becic, was injured. I would just like to remind Mr. Djurisic that no one from the Serbian Progressive Party has ever set fire to this building that was the Federal Assembly in 2000, no one from the Serbian Progressive Party burned down the Serbian Radio Television Building, no one from the Serbian Progressive Party lynched then Serbian Radio Director Dragoljub Milanovic and was beaten by at least 50 of them. That's what the Democratic Party people did. Now that you think Serbian citizens have a short memory and have forgotten all of the Democratic Party's misdemeanors, I think you're mistaken. This is proof of the elections in March 2014, when the people punished you for all the misdemeanors and crimes you have committed in Serbia since 2000, until 2012. Believe me, in the first next circuit elections you're so afraid of, you'll be punished for the misdemeanors you've done in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25486	Mr. Martinovic... ..
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25487	When these parliamentary elections come, here I call on Balša Bozovic to persuade the people of Vojvodina in these brilliant and epochal results of Professor Bojan Pajtic, who managed to win 5.86% of the votes in Vojvodina in March 2014. Such epochal results have been achieved in Vojvodina since 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25488	I thank Mr. Martinovic. Since you have abused the Rules of Procedure, I am subtracting a minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you. Does anyone want to go by the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Replica, Mr. Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Becic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and the guests, we agreed yesterday at the session that I am one of the MPs here who knows best the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language. Mr. Martinovic, as I recall, confirmed it when he asked me to check if there was a term "respect" in the Serbian language Dictionary. We have established that this finished verb exists, and now I would like to tell Mr. Martinovic what the Serbian-language Dictionary also says about the institution. It is not just a political institution, such as the Republika Srpska Assembly. The institution can also be a certain phenomenon, according to the Serbian Language Dictionary, Mr Selakovic, in social relations regulated by legal norms, and then has several other meanings, so that here only for the accuracy of the use of certain words in Serbian to be clear. Another thing, gentlemen, Mr. Martinovic is like Mr. Vulin, two days ago he said he was not familiar with this prominent architect Marin Kresic. Well, to inform you of Mr. and Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Marin Kresic is now president of the New Party's Council for Urbanism. Mr. Kresic, gentlemen, was hired by the Office for Planning the Development of the City of Belgrade, gentlemen. Mr. Marin Kresic was hired at the Yugoslav Institute for Urbanism and Housing, respected gentlemen and Mr. Marin Kresic was a national MP from 2001 to 2004, respected gentlemen, respected architect and highly respected member and official of the New Party, Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25490	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Since I received a stenogram of what was the subject of the debate, about an hour ago in the National Assembly and now I will read part of the stenogram where Mr. Zivkovic said: "I think it's a good thing, that's one big progress and probably hence the party's name, SNS, because it's a dramatically better attitude than the attitude that was with those same people," means all SNS members "fifteen years ago that a hundred Muslims should be killed". I give you a warning, Mr. Zivkovic. Shame on you! According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zivkovic? (Borislav Stefanovic throws, but he doesn't understand. ) I gave Mr Stefanovic a warning about a word spoken half an hour ago in the National Assembly. There is no mention of Mr. Vukic, but mentioned members of the SNS who said that a hundred Muslims should be killed. That's why I give Mr. Zivkovic a warning. Do you have anything else that you don't understand, Mr. Stefanovic? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Why are you doing this afterwards? Mr. Stefanovic, I give you a warning, for what? You're plowing with me at the National Assembly right now. Thank you. Mr. Djurisic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Just one more thing, Mr. Djurisic, before you begin, normally the Management Board will determine if I have made a warning in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: This is embarrassing. ) Mr Stefanovic, your word that you have spoken – it is shameful, it enters the stenogram. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25491	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured a member of 109 who speaks of how a warning is given to the People's MP. Nowhere in this article, nor does any other member of the Rules of Procedure say that you can later, after reading the stenographic notes to someone to give a warning. The Rules of Procedure laid down and gave the chairman the right to follow the session, to follow what MPs say he reacts in accordance with this Rules of Procedure if they violate it, not to read afterwards the stenographic notes and make warnings, and in particular I do not understand how a warning can be made about what he said on July 20th 1995, the president of the SNS in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. So he literally said [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25492	I thank you sir, as soon as you break the Rules of Procedure, I cannot allow you to continue. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Let me finish.) I figured out where I was wrong. Mr. Djurishic, there's no mention of the president of the SNS here. I'll read it again if you haven't heard. So there goes the name SNS, that's a dramatically better attitude than the attitude that was with these same people, so, members of the SNS, 15 years ago, that should be killed by 100 Muslims. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: can I just finish? Please give me your word on the Rules of Procedure. You can't, Mr. Djurishic. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. Yes. Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. And as I said, Mr. Djurisic, that the moment I received the remark that it was Mr. Zivkovic's excuse, I also said that I would read the stenogram and make a decision to announce it to the National Assembly. The board of directors will determine by Article 109 whether or not I was right to do so and what are you worried about then, sir? If I didn't have the right under article 109, I said that moment I'll announce my decision when I get the stenogram. Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25493	Article 109. On any basis, you couldn't give me a warning...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25494	You can't, Mr. Djurisic pointed to article 109.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25495	Article 108, order of session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25496	You can't play with the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25497	No, no. You've done more injuries, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25498	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25499	Replication to Mr. Martinovic. Thank you. What's important is that we get back on the subject...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25500	I'd like to ask you to come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25501	That's right. So we have cities in the region, for example Zagreb. Zagreb also has one idea about the project "Zagreb na Savi", a double bigger plot is a plot of over 250 hectares. However, there everything happens in accordance with all those rules that apply to all European metropolis... (Ninoslav Girić, from the place: About what? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25502	Mr. Giric, don't throw it away. The replica has two minutes to deliver.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25503	Can you just give me back my time, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25504	Keep going, I'm going to count these five seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25505	Thank you. So Zagreb also wants to develop one project "Zagreb na Savi", but in addition to an international competition, but in all the transparent which the public expects, of course, with all the things concerning European and world metropolis and all those rules that make for the elevation of one serious work. I really believed in it and the City of Belgrade by those who run it today. So, what was once required of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the project "Lead Belgrade" by Mr. Beck. He also wanted Serbian citizens to invest in the transfer of the port, and to build the "Lead Belgrade" himself, that's what his project was called, and we rejected it. Today, the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to do so with an investor from the United Arab Emirates, that Serbian citizens pay everything they need to move out to make a living on the project. That's the same thing, and we're not gonna let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25506	Thank you. Since we have a lot of reports, let me see the order. Who's picking up the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25507	This project is pure corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25508	Mr. Martinovic, your reporting base? (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. On what basis? (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Two MPs directly mentioned me. You have no right to a replica. You can pick up the amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes) If they confirm that you are mentioned, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25509	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I am going to have to re-enter primary school for Mr Pavicevic. I have heard today for the first time in my life that the word “institution” means the phenomenon. Believe me, until today I didn't know that word meant that. As for what Mr Bozovic said, where did you find Mr Bozovic an example of the city of Zagreb? Well, the mayor got them out of Remetinco by making a big deposit to get him out. You're having a big affair about what's-his-name. "Zagrebaška Holding", do you follow a few developments in the region, except that you are in love with your current leader Bojan Pajtic? Where did you find the example of the city of Zagreb? There is no room in Remetinco for all these geniuses who have implemented all these genius projects and of all European countries, where they have found the very city of Zagreb, which is unfortunately the city of these people who wire the site of all possible affairs. So it wouldn't have turned out to be anything I lied to, Mr. Pavicevic, to this expert of yours, I really didn't hear about him, I don't do architecture and urbanism. Here's an official website, a copy of the Wright Special Operations Unit, a photo from a concert in The Tower. Mr. Zoran Zivkovic who smokes cigarettes and then Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic. Now, you explain to me, Mr Pavicevic, you from the NS, how to enter the EU in this way and what your Mr Kresic says, or what he will say when he sees these photos, I believe he will ask that he will step out of that NS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25510	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25511	I called 20 minutes ago. Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25512	More than five MPs came forward and then automatically deleted it, and now I have to apologize to the MPs for erasing the list. There's a huge list of MPs who want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Be kind not to answer at this time to allow Mr. Borislav Stefanovic to speak. I can't turn his microphone on if once I delete them, you all go. It's not a competition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25513	Thank you, Madam President. So, you have to delete this member for a few reasons. First, because the draft law is not well formulated, because this solution is not normally established either the actual or the local jurisdiction to act on the proposal for expropriation. Since the Expropriation Act we have already contains a provision on real and local jurisdiction persistently and despite your incredible attempt to stifle the opposition today in the Assembly, it is my great pleasure to speak to you like this and show that we are not afraid of you despite all your attempts to crush the truth and freedom in this country you will not succeed. Since the Expropriation Act already contains a provision on real and local jurisdiction, in this matter we feel that it is better to refer to the application of this law. In Article 25(4), point (b) is replaced by the following: The Expropriation Act found that an expropriation proposal was submitted to the municipal administration on whose territory the immovable property was proposed for expropriation. So, in this case, the government has rejected this amendment with an explanation that this article is prescribed that the motion for expropriation is being decided by the competent authority of the local self-government unit, in this case probably equipped with members of your party without a diploma, with false colleges to deal with serious matters. There the government is right, only to miss the authority, has suspended the Law on Local Self-Government, the promoter has missed and the actual authority's competence to act, and the criteria for determining the local authority has not been established. So, by erasing this article, we would essentially return to the application of the Expropriation Act for whose application no one cries or complains because it's the law, and the law is above all else. So, in that sense, if we're asking that through the provisions that are deleted and this member is not to be taken away through someone's expropriation so that the states that wanted to make comparisons to the left, no, you're subtracting to give in private hands to the people you're dealing with, that's the difference. I am proud that this line between us will never be deleted, because we have heard today that among other things thanks to this member will drop the cost of real estate on the Wizard, it's amazing. How are prices going to fall on Vrakar when there's going to be a square of six thousand euros or five? (Alexandra Tomic, from town: Who says? ) said the prime minister, said Mr. Sinisha Mali. Please, if there's going to be a price in "Belgrade on Water" three thousand squares, will it bring prices down on Vrakar? Tell me, where did you learn that? Where did you read that? How do you intend to explain two things? Where's the public interest in housing, and how do you think you give the expropriation something, take it from private hands to give it into private hands? People, a very simple question. Any answer I'd like to hear if you know you have any answer, except for these napkins of nonsense and brutal trampling of the freedoms you've resorted to here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25514	Thank you. We'll continue our work, but I'd like to ask the heads of Parliament to come to me and take a five-minute break, because this is no longer like working on the bill. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: We do not have the head of the parliamentary group. You don't have a head of Parliament? Please, whoever wants, whoever doesn't, my God, boycotts Parliament's work. Will it be kind for the heads of Parliament to come to me and see if we can discuss the amendments or not? We will not return to the debate in principle. Not while I'm the chairman. Serbian citizens are not interested in this. I've answered your pitches, proscrations, and everything else. Are you coming up or should I take a five-six-hour break? Borko Stefanovic does not want to approach, he is not interested in the work of parliament. [[after breaks]] Is anyone answering the amendment? Mr. Stefanovic will tell his colleagues what we agreed, since it is not a secret meeting. By amendment? (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Nobody mentioned you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Yes. I would ask the messengers, who sit in the benches on the left side of me, not to yell at me anymore and not to receive me any more. We're not in the same position, because I can't ask for your resignation, and that's why I'm in a much worse position and I can't hold press conferences and tell lies and lies to MPs. We're not in the same position. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Give a stenogram, let's see. ) Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic throws a word to the president without receiving a word – see the stenogram. That's what Gordana Komic did. I just realized why she was saying everything in the microphone and dictated. I needed it longer, but I realized her intention to keep it all recorded. So, I'm on my question -- does anyone want to talk on the amendment to Article 6, I'm running a session, and I'm going to lead it by my best knowledge and skill, so, to answer whether anyone wants to do the amendment, everyone here is mature and grown-up people, so, according to the amendment, nobody wants to do it. Does anyone else want a word on some other basis? The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25516	Your Honor, I believe you have violated Article 104, which speaks of the right of an MP to seek a replica. You interrupted the session at the moment when the debate was being held for some kind of break, for some deal, which I don't know how important it is for the further work of this session, and then after that to the MPs who thought they had the right to reply, you didn't give it the right. Thus, Article 104 states that if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insolent to a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name, last name, function, or misread his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation refers shall have the right to replication. So, I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure and make it possible for MPs who have sought the right to reply. If you are not sure whether they have the right to reply, I ask you to take a look at these stenographic notes and see what happened during the session when you were not in the hall, and then determine whether the MPs who are now seeking the right to reply have the right to do so or not. I think it's the only way we can continue our work now in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If you need extra time to finish your stenographic notes so you can consult them, we can take a five-minute break, it's no problem, we've been waiting for these five minutes, so we can wait another five minutes, but I'm asking you to keep the discussion in line with the Rules of Procedure and all MPs to be equal today in front of you, which is not the case since the beginning of this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25517	Thank you very much. You've been wasting valuable time for over two minutes. You're wrong, I don't need any time. They weren't my consultations, and you boycotting the work of parliament, so you don't want to hear what the majority of the presidents of the parliamentary groups in this House agree on, who want to discuss amendments to this law, that's your personal right. So if you don't want to attend a meeting, how can you comment on it? But since I really want to, you can hear it in the microphone, I didn't turn off your microphone, you just keep on with your good behavior, don't talk like that at the press conferences. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I've been acting fine all day, unlike others.) ) To inform you that most of the heads of parliament have agreed here, since you will find yourself in the Rules of Procedure if you read anything more than 104, 107, 108 and 27, that there is one member that when the president cannot otherwise... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: That's right, 112) ... to make order and direct the session to further flow and work, then he has the right to take a break. That doesn't mean it's after a break of chaos, and I was just asking if anyone wanted to talk about the amendment, but you're not listening. You wanted us to mock the work of this House today, and I will not allow it. I'm really not gonna let that happen. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Do you or Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic want? Here you go, I don't care.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25518	It takes both of us, I find it strange to choose if we both signed up to talk after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We don't have to choose who's going to talk, it's kind of unusual.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25519	I can't do it when it's at the same time. I'd have to take a stenogram, take a break and measure the seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25520	In the halls where we run committees, there's a time when someone signed up for a word. I guess there's some order, but good news then. In that case, you have two deputy secretaries who need to keep you informed of how the session is going. You obviously don't know the article 100. Rules of Procedure. Now that you've told us who all the members of the Rules of Procedure we know, this member of the Parliament, Mrs Gojkovic, undertakes that if you want to get involved in the debate, or if you want to break up with the opposition, leave the presidency to a vice president, report for a word, and so talk to the opposition MPs, as a national MP, and not how you turn on us, turn off the microphones whenever you think about it, and still say how we yell at you, and that's the only way we communicate in a situation where you speak in a microphone, and you don't give us a word to answer you. So when you are sitting in a place where you give qualifications on the work of the opposition, you can only do this as a member of the SNS, not as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so answer the word and then we will talk on equal grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25521	Thank you for sharing your experience with me from the short-term presidency that is not in line with Article 100, which is listed and this is a clear abuse of the Rules of Procedure, since I do not remember having spoken to you or any other MP that I wish to discuss, but only in me in the hall is it possible to use my right and duty to respond after all day's violations of the Rules of Procedure. I'll take two minutes away from your group, because this is obviously an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because it turns out that every second when the president uses his right and obligation to abuse the Rules of Procedure. I hope that one of Serbia's citizens has not given up watching this session to see that only the opposition is today talking about the violations of the Rules of Procedure. It is my right to answer that this has nothing to do with the violations of the Rules of Procedure. If you like, we'll vote in line for the violation of Rule 100. It doesn't matter. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. ) Are there any other injuries to the Rules of Procedure by the MPs? Is there any other basis, replicas? (Balsa Bozovic, from town: Replica to Mr Martinovic. No replica, I took a break to make order. We made a deal here. That the heads of the opposition's parliamentary groups do not want to participate, I am taught that democracy is the majority, in the vote and in the agreement. We, most of us, want to continue the work and I will move on to the next member, regardless of what the heads of the parliamentary groups who participated in this work and wanted to contribute to this session moving forward, will be angry at what we are discussing now. I don't want to discuss it. We will move on in line with the agreement of most of the heads of parliament. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The word has been made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a bearer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25522	Article 7 whose erasure is legitimately sought – with a proposal for expropriation, a copy of the public book on the records of immovableity and rights on them for the immovableity subject to expropriation, location information and evidence of the provided means of expropriation shall be submitted. How does article 7 differ from the member who defines it in the Expropriation Act? Another member of the law that was put here just to cover up the essence, and we've already talked about all of Serbia knows that, the cloudy waters of Belgrade and projects that don't lead to anything, but good. The very interesting explanation given for the refusal of this amendment is that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments of MP Vladimir Pavicevic to Article 7. It was rejected as it is said - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that this article is prescribed for documents to be submitted with an expropriation proposal. It's really one genius. I think that the right is one serious science and that the state administration is one serious part of the state system and that it is mildly incorrect for the state administration to refer in this way to what MPs are proposing. The question is, why put a standard in a "lex specialis" that is otherwise part of a regular general law on expropriation? If someone knows how to answer that question without telling the truth about some concerts that were held, not at JSO camp, but in the Tower on the street, and where you were at Martinovic in that dark, it's for another investigation. I'm afraid that wouldn't be in your favor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25523	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Presidents Mrs Gojkovic, Honored Ministers Vujovic and Selakovic, the honored guests, our amendment to Article 7 is a direct response to the key argument offered by the Prime Minister for this bill when he said the project "Belgrade on Water" is a matter of modernising Serbia. Dear gentlemen, I once again had to review the stenographic notes from the March 1881 Assembly session, as the Prime Minister compared this modernisation through "Beograda na Voda" with the modernisation during the construction of the railway in Serbia in the second half of the 19th century. Here's what one MP said at the time, to confirm that it was modernization unlike this. Trifun Jeremic says – Gentlemen and I have fallen into part as an MP from the newly freed areas so that I may speak a word about this important matter. Watch it now, he says – I am indeed not sent, nor have I been taught to know what is rail, nor have I ever seen it in my eyes, but it is in my duty as a People's Messenger that I, too, speak a word about this fateful matter. Honorable rail gentlemen was a contractual matter, a matter of commitment from a contract at the Berlin Congress in 1878. It was a fateful question for Serbia. It's a question of real modernisation. People didn't know what it was, and that brings them the possibility of economic development. And what is modernization in building a residential building, respected gentlemen in "Belgrade on Water" or in building a shopping mall that someone will be able to walk around to buy something at a grocery store? Gentlemen, it is not modernization, anti-modernization, and therefore we have submitted an amendment – it is also deleted to Article 7 of this bill, in order for the law to be adjudicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25525	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Government, therefore, and this amendment is - deleted, for the simple reason that we want to annul the entire proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that someone's private interest be declared public. Here in this debate we had a few things to conclude. The first thing is for citizens of Belgrade is to be entitled to local self-government. Belgrade's citizens are granted the right to form and vote urban plans. So everything took over the government of the Republic of Serbia in this way and one highly suspicious project both by the Anti-Corruption Agency and by the Transparency of Serbia and the international, professional and domestic professional public was declared a 22nd century plan. Some MPs, ministers say Abu Dhabi is what Belgrade needs, we think quite differently, because we believe that apartments of 100, 200 and 500 square meters do not need Belgrade, that they are apartments, and Minister Vujovic knows what the situation of the market is, that these apartments are absolutely not the subject of what citizens of Belgrade need today, for example, if education workers are in question for the next 100 years to pay off the smallest apartment of 80 or 90 squares planned in the area, while not spending any single dinar on anything else in their lives, but on paying off the loan. And it is a shame and it says it is not in the interest of any residents of Belgrade and Serbia. There won't be any new jobs here. Only one investor here will earn on the backs of Serbian and Belgrade citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25527	Thank you. Now some MPs have checked out, just to see what order. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25528	I thank the Honorable Presidents, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Article 7 of this Law has clearly defined the scope of the documentation for each individual expropriation procedure, the location information, a copy of the public record and immovableity and evidence of the provided means of expropriation. The amendment introduces an instrument of confirmation which is completely inadequate for this process, as is an inadequate debate so far. I'll remind you, Madam President, and you mentioned it yesterday at the plenary session about this law, we were together in the Scottish Parliament and in the British Parliament, there's noise, there's even shouting "whoa" in those parliaments, but like this, we can see that there's a debate that has nothing to do with it, and it has nothing to do with any equivalent and empirical data that can support it anywhere. As we talked about the day before yesterday, we were talking about some construction of the "EMAR Corporation" in Erbil, Kurdistan, and Damascus, Syria, Libya, which is completely incorrect. I will once again say for the truth that "EMAR proportis" is currently building in India, the United States, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and cities in Serbia, of course, and Turkey. Here I am showing images of cities already being built and existing. Six cities in Saudi Arabia, the city of Rabig "Economics", the town of Hael, Kec near Medina, Jazan "Economisiti" and "Economits" near Riad in Saudi Arabia, something that can be gone and can be seen with a naked eye, as can be done in Turkey and the US and the Emirates and not speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25529	The word is Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25530	Thank you, Chairman. We cannot support this amendment, but one speaker before my esteemed colleague, Mr. Vlada Marinkovic, has today shown an incredible interest in the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia in several ways and is related to the amendment why we cannot support when an amendment comes from a man who has submitted it and advocates one thesis, and I will explain briefly. Is it possible that any MP in this hall is more supportive of Zagreb on the Sava than Belgrade on the Water? We're starting with, you love another country in the region more than you love your own. For me, for example, it's really unimaginable. I think it's very...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25531	MP, this is a replica, I have to react regardless of what MP it is. We made a certain agreement and I'm asking you to talk about the amendment, and that's a deal that we all have to respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25532	May I?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25533	I allow you to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25534	On the other hand, why can't we still support this amendment? Because if you support other cities, I don't say any, and I'm not going to say any city, maybe this city is your favorite, too, but if you say nothing is done and something is better left in the most attractive location, and then there is an amendment that offers a new solution, and that solution is in most cases today -- it's deleted, so it's best to wipe out everything, wipe out Serbia's future, wipe out reforms, wipe out something that will bring certain prosperity to our country because the individual people who are holding a lecture today, the chairman, have really wiped out everything. It's hard for me to watch it backwards for years, and so we won't support the amendment that continues with that policy, which is – I would just appeal myself, I end up, you love your country and your people more than others, and you fight for your people and your country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25535	Thank you. According to the amendment, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the MPs of the former regime have submitted an amendment to Article 7. A bill of law in the same text, but with different motivations. If you followed Mr. Zivkovic's presentation, he actually denied himself in relation to the principle debate because he said – why should Article 7 suggest it. to prescribe what documents, what acts do you need in the procedure of expropriation when it is already prescribed by the Expropriation Act? This is the best evidence that the Lex specialis should not be any fear of Belgrade's citizens, i.e. Article 7, is the best proof that it is essentially not deviating from the general expropriation regime prescribed by the Expropriation Act. As for the concert in The Tower that Mr. Zivkovic spoke of, I, Mr. Zivkovic, was not in that dark in the Tower, but you were. It's, uh, posted on the website...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25537	Ambassador, you're replicating. Don't think I don't like replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25538	He said what darkness I was in, and I told him I wasn't in any darkness.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25539	Yeah, but it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25540	So, I wasn't in any darkness. Mr. Zivkovic was at the Red Beret concert. This was published on the official site of Red Beretka, which is otherwise advertised by the book Milorad Ulemek of the Legion "The Path of Defeat".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25541	I'll have to take both your words and two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25542	I think Mr. Zivkovic read that book and taught it well.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25543	Indeed, no matter what you belong to the SNS parliamentary group, if we have introduced a session to discuss amendments, then I cannot act on one side like this and defend something and allow you to do so. Simply, the deal was also made with the head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25544	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I'll honor that deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25545	Please, you've finished this speech, and it's clear to me that you want to eskicipate, that you don't speak. Sit down and two minutes I have to take away the MP's group because we've taken away...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25546	I'm the one who picked up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25547	Don't discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25548	But I answered the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25549	But don't talk about the amendment, and now you've put me in a position to give the replica to Zoran Zivkovic. That's all I see in my mind, no hard feelings. And your head of the parliamentary group took part in the deal. Then please, let's just stick to it. I can't interpret the Rules of Procedure on one side like this and on this side like that. Here you go. I didn't understand about the concert in The Tower.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25550	Replication is the result of an untrue salva... (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: he told me I was in the dark. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25551	I'm sorry, I'll give you back your time. I'm asking Alexander Martinovic not to throw it away. You answered the amendment, I heard, take the stenogram. You didn't ask for a replica. I apologize to Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic. Come in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25552	So, the word "untruth" that's been said every day for the last 20 years since 1995 about me, but that's not the subject of this replica. This is just a small contribution from a respected colleague who seems to me to praise some legal knowledge and some titles. I don't want to enter what kind of titles are, like Stefanovic, whether as Mali, but generally, that level of untruth, that level of inability for people to face facts... (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: What is this? Did I steal the title? This is a replica, of course, so I can talk about it. So, that level of rudeness, the untrue... Let's say for the sake of the Serbian public, the concert in Kula was held for the New Year's Eve, at the central square in Kula and played Bajaga. The fact that you're the source of the late beret site, the former berets, that tells you what you're interested in in in your life, and that's the confirmation of what I just said, which is why I'm being punished, which is what's being said... The emissaries speak out loud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25553	MP, I'm taking a 15-minute break. This session doesn't make any sense anymore. I'm taking a 15-minute break. This session has lost complete meaning from all sides. [[after breaks]] We can keep going. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending, adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25555	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, kindly Mr. Minister, the government has accepted this amendment as well as another amendment, fellow Members of my parliamentary group. Our wish was to compare the whole law with the existing laws that exist in Serbia, so we put it in Article 7 to add a new position 2 which speaks of the evidence of the provided means of expropriation being considered a confirmation of the security of funds in the budget of the expropriation users, i.e. the authority or other instrument of providing compensation in accordance with the rules governing payment traffic. It is clear why the Government has accepted this amendment, because it has been prescribed by the Expropriation Act of a valid law which, as we believe, should be applied to this whole project. The problem is that the government has not accepted our other amendments that also provide legal certainty and are against what this law introduces, which is alienation, confiscation of expropriation, alienation in considerable, as you would like to say, private property in order to make some other privateer accomplishing this project, "Belgrade on Water", make a profit. It is a pity that only this amendment has been accepted, all of our amendments should be accepted, especially the next amendment that speaks of the way the market value is determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25556	Thank you. The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25557	The Honorable Madam President, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, Article 8, whose erasure as well as all other members of the law we are looking for, speaks of the fact that the owner has the right to compensation which cannot be lower than the market value. So here is the fee that people who have real estate in the area where luxury apartments and malls will be built. We ask that this article of the bill be deleted, given that we believe that the entire expropriation cannot be implemented, that there is no basis for it to be implemented by Article 20. The Expropriation Act has been said to establish public interest in cases for the construction of a facility in the field of education, health care of social protection, culture, water economy, sport, transport, energy and municipal infrastructure, facilities for the needs of state authorities and authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government, facilities for the needs of the country's defence, as well as for the construction of apartments that address the housing needs of socially endangered persons. Unless the MPs and ministers present here feel that these very apartments to be built in "Belgrade on Water" will be apartments that address the housing needs of socially endangered persons, we believe that this expropriation should not occur. And it's still unclear how public interest can be to give a private person's property to build luxury apartments and malls on that land, and we've had the opportunity to hear and that it might be some tourist attraction where people will come. I suppose citizens may come to see apartments of 4.5 or 5,000 euros per metre square, because it is indeed an attraction. So, we are opposed to expropriation since public land is given into the hands of a private person for private investment, luxury apartments and a shopping mall.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25558	The word is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25559	Thank you, I haven't answered, but thank you for giving me your word or I'd have answered later. Article 8 is another in the collection, a large collection of members of this law who aim to conceal something, to create some darkness as in the tower some time ago. Here it is a question of abuse of the right to fair market compensation for owners, i.e. property owners in the territory that should be this future dream of "Belgrade on Water". There's a difference here as to how this property was acquired. Which is a complete nonsension, it does not exist in any other law but it is said whether or not there is a real difference between whether the property is acquired by cargo or without cargo legal work, and the Constitution of course forbids and does not allow any change. The story here is that when the object of expropriation is a building site on which the building was built under Article 3(2) of this Law, which is an illegal facility owner of this facility has the right to compensation for the construction of buildings at the height of the estimated building value of that facility. Where's that in any law? The market value of the facility is always the way to determine compensation, and here I repeat, once again, that when the object of expropriation is a building plot on which an object of Article 3(2) of this law is built, the owner of such a facility has the right to build a building at the height of the estimated building value of that facility.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25560	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25561	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers Vujović and Selakovic and the Honored Guest of the Ministry, and I agree that it is very important that we discuss an important, large project and important draft of the law. I think that, MPs, from the opposition today, we have been very argumentatively discussing, here we have, in relation to Article 8, very clearly here all together announced that expropriation is always being carried out for a pre-defined project of public interest, envisaged by the regulatory plan, and we are all here today, from the opposition benches, saying that there is no such project, and that expropriation is foreseen. Dear gentlemen, that's one strong argument. Another strong argument for this member also concerns the review of all urban plans for Belgrade since 1815, respected gentlemen, and there is not one since 1815 until this project "Belgrade on Water" which did not contain the project and then I am surprised, gentlemen, when some MPs who are part of the ruling coalition are not only from SNS, such as Mr Martinovic, Djukanovic, Babic and others, but also Mr Marinkovic, for example. And Jovicic, of course, let's not forget him here, but Mr Marinkovic of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia stands up and then on our amendments says he wonders how there are no arguments, so here are the arguments, gentlemen. If we've been sitting here since 10:00, if we offer a serious argument here, if we offer comparison of urban plans, so we offer Mr. Marinkovic, and how is that now to be asked as a question, the government has no arguments, gentlemen, to say so here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25562	The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25563	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I wish I had heard concrete arguments and concrete examples of why this project should not be done, meaning I only heard during the previous debate, but in the plenary debate, negative attitude, and I have not heard any argument at all about the fact that we have passed the Law on Public Private Partnership in 2010. Do you know how many public private partnerships we have? One. Shouldn't we be doing anything? Not a single project to do, to keep us this way, is it necessary to reject 13,000 people who will be employed, should we refuse the development of tourism, the development of a complete economy, infrastructure and becoming and definitely becoming from Belgrade of a capital of financial, economic, political and if you want every other centre not only of the southeast, but also of central Europe. I sincerely and deeply believe in this project, and I would also like from colleagues Pavicevic, but also from other colleagues to hear additional arguments that go into favour, but which contribute to the counterargument why not to hire, why not develop the economy, why not develop tourism, why not develop infrastructure? What the realization of this project will definitely impact. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25564	You have no right to a replica. The emissary called, I guess he's entitled to discuss it. He called twice today all day. Of course, more than once. After the amendment, Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25565	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that Mr Vujovic is coming into an ideological conflict with this member, otherwise with the whole law in relation to the ideology of the policy you are conducting. In fact, quite one liberal approach for which you have certain arguments, I personally disagree, but I don't want to get into that kind of controversy, but you say now the expropriation that is the point of disseminating our arguments, you say – part of the space that's in private own expropriation we're going to subtract because the state knows better. I mean the ideological conflict of your policy that you represent with what you're propagating here. I would understand if you were building on that space, let's say some new folk theater, a student center, etc., but you're still public property, you're now declaring this public property a private and we're saying it's not a public interest. There's a point of divergence between you and our argument. We say -- it's not a public interest in building housing, business spaces, but then people say it's not a public interest to hire people, so it's not a public interest to hire people, is public interest defined by law, very precisely defined by law. People are hired by employment policy, not by taking away private property and giving it to another private person to earn profits. It's not a public interest. Our argument and I base my argument on the views and analyses of the most representative bodies of the architectural profession in Serbia. Here's what they said, say the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, according to the Law on Professional Practice, is a special purpose for objects with a corresponding space that has strategic importance for Serbia and which are taxively listed in the Law on Planning and Construction, Apartment and Business, as well as by following public content do not represent something of strategic interest for Serbia. So they are not something that is of strategic interest to Serbia, but are primarily a commercial interest that defines the local community. What did the Serbian Academy of Architecture say? The space long planned for public purposes, in the geometric centre of the growing Belgrade era, has been redeployed, completely without the sense of building apartments and business space as an existing kind of public interest. Let me still trust the profession more than the government and I believe that you will find the understanding to adopt this one, and delete this member. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25566	Wait a minute, the minister's asking for a word. The Rules of Procedure can't ask for a word, so the minister is asking for a word. So I'll have the decency to, if I've given someone my word to listen to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25567	Thank you very much. So, here in particular Article 8, it is our desire, our desire to give this law the opportunity to those owners who have objects that are not legally registered, which are not legally built, to get compensation for the value they have invested in it. That's what building value offers here. So in other words, if someone built a house, a place to live or anything, because we can't give it by the standards of the Expropriation Act, which we've normally transferred to this member, then we're giving him compensation for everything he's invested in building that facility or if he accepts the place of residence elsewhere. So it's an alternative place to live. I think this is a step towards respecting the people in this room. You know what I'm talking about, I'm talking about Sava Mali, I'm talking about places where people like that exist. That's the maximum the law allows. So, in practice, it can be more than that, here in this situation, so if someone built a house alone without a project, out of manual material, or even from solid material, they'll get a complete estimated value back and they'll either be able to build that object elsewhere or offer it an object that will replace it. So the whole point of this article is to give everyone the least market value compensation and offer a whole series of variants to agree, before applying expropriation at all. The expropriation refers, as you have already mentioned several times today in a debate on 5% of the territory. The public surface, so it gets with them the logic of public interest, on two levels I'll explain. Public surfaces after the completion of this project...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25568	Minister, time, if you can bring an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25569	... I answer to two comments. The public area will be at least five times higher, so 240 plus 60, about 300,000 square meters, it will be 20% of the total project. So it's going to be four times more than the first private surface to be exploited. So that's one level of public interest. The second, regardless of whether these are apartments, business facilities and combinations, we attract a mega-sized investment for Serbia – 3.5 billion, a risk-bearing investment, an investment that will be realised in many years, not in one year, and which should put Serbia on second place on the map of investment in Europe and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25570	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25571	I have to admit, across from my colleagues, they might want it back or they didn't realize it, but, people, self-government socialism died a long time ago. I don't know if you understand. Someone here says yes, someone's gonna make a profit. Well, of course he'll make a living. That's the whole point of making money. And he'll make a living in Belgrade. It'll make all of Serbia. Guys, this is capitalism. I don't know what you want? I'm sorry, you're saying that, say, the town of Machester has no use for, say, that sheik bought Manchester City, so he's the champion of the Great Britain, playing the Champions League, and I don't know what. Of course there's profit and sheik, but there's profit and the city of Manchester itself, because people come to watch, they built a stadium that big. I don't understand what you're talking about here. Someone here says you gave someone something. What did we give? They won't take that shopping mall to Emirate, he stays here. And anything built will be here. And it will make the city of Belgrade and Serbia, too. Unlike those of you who left us wagons there and ships, their cemeteries and rusted wrecks and smudges, so none of them has profit. People, aman, this is capitalism. Understand once, Comrade Tito died in 1980. Edward Cardellj, too, long ago. Therefore, define yourself as you are. I don't mind, return self-government, but then don't say you're for European values. There is no such thing in the EU. It's normal for someone who invests and wants to make money. If one of you has three and a half billion euros, here you go, this is a project of national importance, invest that money there. So do you, but let Serbia earn too. And it seems to me that your sponsorship doesn't have three and a half million euros, you wouldn't pull them out of your pocket. They do, but they do when they peel the skin off to the citizens, so they get Luke for free, when they get something like that for free, that's how it works. When they do not pay suppliers and the owners are “Maxia” etc., etc., they can do so. Or when they create their own laws here. You see, in this country it can't do that. It will benefit the citizens of Serbia, the state, and of course the one who invests, it is in capitalism something that is quite normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25572	The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25573	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, when we talk about public interest, we need to repeat more times that they are direct and indirect benefits of this kind of project. Direct at the time you sell any facility, whether business-inhabited, whether commercial business spaces and paying taxes, each customer pays VAT and goes straight into the budget. The tax on the transfer of absolute rights of 5% of each real estate, squares, enters the budget. When we talk about indirect benefits of this, and we've heard before from my colleague Marinkovic, today the increase in tourism rates in each year is not below 10%. From last year to this year, 9%. Imagine the moment you're building an infrastructure facility with so many of your contents that we'll only be designing in the future. I'll tell you. In one Barcelona, which was built since 1930 until today, thanks to the truly capable architects and all the famous Mr. Gaudi, who was at that time challenged why he had won in certain competitions to build sights in that city, today's Barcelona earns 100m euros annually, and it practically represents a non-economicly sustainable city, but simply earns with its profits that it can invest further and further into all the branches of economic development. Therefore, if we are talking about employment and if we are talking about young people who need to work, I have also suggested that young people should be involved in these projects today and through colleges. So, students of recent years, not only of technical colleges but of all colleges, should have professional practice on a project like this, as well as graduate students of the university traineeship. Why? Because the state will give them what no one will give them – a reference to the work on a project like this. When infrastructure projects were being built in Serbia such as Gerdap or Gazela, there were also problems and misunderstandings of many. Imagine that in 1966, no Lex specialis was adopted on the Gazela Bridge? What would Belgrade look like today? And then there was such resistance. But it simply also came to the Assembly with such a legal proposal, it also respected procedures and all the people who had their parcels, and objects without permission and facilities with permission, and eventually came to that. And when we talk about the past as it seemed to be public and private interest, we are witnessing that from 2001 to 2005, what was the lease of land by the company Delta Real, since 2005 alone becomes the property of a private company. Then the city of Belgrade adopts a plan, then the City Assembly votes for such legal solutions, then the income administration issues about a solution that is 50 euros square, which should be paid by the very businessman who practically becomes the owner, which is "Delta Real" What is going on? Then the Anti-Corruption Council, led by Mrs. Verica Barac, of course, raises the public and suggests that this price that was designed does not correspond to real value? What's going on? That in 2009 you are in a position for the state to say – no, we actually owe a million euros to Mr. Miskovic. So in 2009, and then he says, "Give me a solution." At that point, Mr Dulic makes a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Planning and Construction adopted here by DS and simply under that law, Mr Miskovic becomes the owner of these parcels relating to E70, E75, etc. ‘Block 53’. So, 200 thousand square meters of apartments were built, a projected price of 1800 euros per square. Of course, they were sold for 1250 euros through the Hipo Bank because the investment it made, certain foreign banks, of course, was investigated by many in this case, as well as Mr Saric, that investments entered through the Dutch and Austrian credit lines, over 100m euros in investment capital, sold 200,000 squares, is estimated to amount from 230m to 320m. Today's solution is that some 300 apartments have not yet been sold and are owned by Mr. Saric. What is very interesting to say is that a year and a half of a building permit at that time at the Belgrade city level has not been issued. Why? In order to sell apartments in Belville, all the luck that took place was the 2012 elections because the construction operation in Serbia would probably still be standing, although it was falling apart, although there were major problems in the overall functioning of all construction firms, and there are firms that are in bankruptcy, hiring a large number of people. So you're against it all. You are simply for this kind of solution model, such as the model in which Serbia's budget will in some way be drawn nonstop by a private investor and there is no possibility at all of coming from foreign direct investment. We are no longer for such concepts, foreign direct investment when investing other investors are free, we have opened an investment environment with all possible reform laws, with the possibility that today-to-morrow our young people are not going abroad but are working here on the best strategic projects that will always be dealt with in the future. When they say they will work in "Belgrade on Water" and work in their profession, every next project that is being built in the world will have the opportunity to work on them. That's why these amendments and this guy aren't supposed to be taken, but he shouldn't be taken seriously at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25574	The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25575	So why do we disagree deeply with the Serbian government when it comes to this law? For the simple reason that so far 80 million have been spent on clearing land from the Belgrade City budget. Twenty-seventy million euros, after the bill's vote, will be spent further on anything that should be a precondition for the investor. Another 3.2 billion euros will be paid by citizens to move all railway, bus, Lastin's stations, build bridges, move railway corridors, infrastructure land equipment, build subways, because the rail corridors are being moved and thus put into question further development of the capital. Of course, the government did not take care of that. That's none of your business. For what? Is there a contract for the construction of Beograd on Water? We didn't get an answer to that question. Is there a pre-contract on the construction of "Biograda on Water"? Although they say that SNS MPs, however, the citizens still haven't seen a pre-contract. Is there a model? There is, but you don't know who the author is. There are also several solutions offered by the party of former radicals. One in the 2012 campaign, "Belgrade on Water" looked like this. Then, in 2013, only a year later, "Belgrade on Water" looked like this. Today, we are told that “Belgrade on Water” will look like this. The project "Belgrade on Water" on "Belgrade on Water" does not exist. Is there any guarantee that investors will build everything we've had a chance to see in these photos? It doesn't exist. Is there a guarantee of compensation if citizens individually give 2,000 euros to the investor for this project that after two or three of the buildings built, they will continue to build the rest? There's no compensation. Why? Because there's no contract. That's why this is a blurry project. That is why the project has been misjudged by the Anti-Corruption Agency, and yet you give land to an investor worth half a billion euros. This is market value and this land, Mr Vujovic, as much as we try to show that it does not belong to the citizens of Belgrade, and it does not belong to the government of the Republic of Serbia, or to any ministry, or to the Prime Minister. This belongs exclusively to the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade. Finally, citizens are not watching how the ministers of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as prime minister, as Belgrade's mayor takes more care of the interests of investors "Igl Hills", than they take care of the interests of citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens. That's why we are against "Berograda on Water", because we think this is a project that will be hit on the pockets of poor citizens during the three years of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25576	The word is Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25577	Thank you, Your Honor. It's an amazing talent for my colleague. You've seen what Belgrade will be like with SNS, and I want to show you what Belgrade is like after 10 or 15 years of DS. Look. It's amazing how you left Belgrade. Thank you for that. Thank you. The Belgrade citizens see what you've left since 1996. This is your authority, these are your results. Well done, it didn't happen again, it didn't happen again. Despite these images of your government, you say -- they'll spend 80m euros cleaning something up, taking care of this, this ruin at the most attractive location in this part of the Balkans and Europe. You say the same thing - the most potential location. It's an honor to take advantage of you. You have incredible talent. A better power no one could have, I think, in Europe than you. This is a shame. You say – 80 million euros. Only on the Inex building, you paid a billion and 200 million. Watch out, building one Inex. That's about 10m euros. We had a city of cardboard, 600,000 euros, nothing made of anything, just created, Dragan Gilas decided so. That's what we're going to say 11m euros. Only at King Alexander's Boulevard did you manage to raise the price by six million euros. Almost, well, we almost got to 20 million euros, and we didn't see anything. We saw a city of cardboard, we saw an Inex building you bought for your establishment, or your officials. We didn't need that at all. If you had cleaned up this beautiful attractive Belgrade for 20m euros during your government, we would have said all the honor and we can conclude this next theory – just to clean this up, we have done a lot more than you. Anything from "Biograda on Water", and there will be, remember these words, we will no longer have a ruin. This is where our kids could play, walk. Well done, amazing. When tourists see this, I think they want to live here. Here, for example, at this location. It's a shame. This is a shame and I'm glad I showed this and I don't want to talk anymore, because the picture says more than a thousand words.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25578	The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25579	Your Honor, I believe he is a injured member of 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. We had from members of the former radicals' party one performance now, as used to be T-shirts with Seselj, now there were some pictures. It's nice, it's an exercise choreography...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25580	Ambassador, you're responding to the picture we saw on both sides.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25581	It's a nice choreography...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25582	What nice photo?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25583	Choreography.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25584	Choreography, yes. Ambassador, I'm asking you about the injury of the birthday boy, and we're going to have a ballet on our own time. So, please, about the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25585	I'm talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25586	That's right, but you're abusers, because you want to demean the discussion of colleagues who have the right to choose to defend the bill as much as you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25587	I did not demean the discussion, but rather the actions of the MPs of the others in the O.R. that I consider...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25588	All you can do is criticize my actions for hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25589	I criticise you, who, in my opinion, did not react when necessary, and when other MPs violated the dignity of this assembly by their actions. That's what I'm talking about all the time, these minutes and 20 seconds. I understand that you understand that, because it's Shessel's school and you don't have to be ashamed of it. You've had such performances in the Serbian Parliament before. It is only now that I draw attention to the fact that it is an infringement of the dignity of the congregation and that, as there has been no place in the past, it is not a place today. These things haven't changed, no matter how much you want to show that you've changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25590	I don't understand why you reacted, because I made a good inquiry with colleagues who used to work and were part of the Belgrade government. You haven't performed a single function. I don't understand what this is about, but I'm trying. Parliament's dignity is not threatened by showing photographs showing the current situation in Belgrade's part of the city that is planning to implement a project we are trying today to explain to Serbian citizens what this should look like and fix something with amendments. Is that right? Through the norm of the law. Before that, it's amazing your behavior, Mr. Gursich. I'm going to break up because I don't want to humiliate myself with other colleagues. Do you want to vote? Yeah. I thank you. Show me that you are not interested in my answer, so that I do not humble myself here and that I do not spend valuable time on other MPs and citizens of Serbia. I will address MPs who participate in the work of this Parliament, have a basic education, which is 248 MPs. So, if the president is not responding to the photos shown by opposition MPs, and this is about "Belgrade on Water" what it will look like in a few years' time, I will not react to the pictures of what this part of the city of Belgrade looks like today. I am sorry that we did not hold a session outside this building, right in the part of Belgrade, which is to make it easier for Serbian citizens to understand the bill. It's my fault, because it says we can hold sessions here in the Rules of Procedure and out of the building. It's my big mistake. I think everyone would understand what this is all about. We will, of course, vote that you have turned your back on me enough to talk about you, as an MP and today's behavior in this session. So the punishments were completely justified. Minister Aleksandar Antic has the advantage, regardless of what Balsa Bozovic is trying to do for us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25591	Thank you. I believe my colleague Bozovic will definitely come forward after my discussion. First of all, this is an important debate. Personally, from this perspective, I don't mind having performance on both sides and on the other side, and I think it can be both likable and I wouldn't go into that part of the debate at all, but I have to react to one serious, incorrect connotation that was made here at the sitting, and I have a little thing about Mr. Jovičić. Col. Jovičić, you said two exact things, so one building called Inexa, 10m euros, absolutely correct, you just forgot to say it's 13,000 square meters and it's about 800 euros per square, but it's a small thing. What I came forward for, what Mr Balsa Bozovic was talking about, and I think he said a very incorrect and dangerous connotation about Belgrade's development and the Beograd on Water project itself, when he mentioned a 3.2 billion-euro figure, and listed the projects that were caused by the "Belgrade on Water" project and said it would have to be built. "Metro" seizways, railway station, Bus station, road-rail bridge Vinca, as part of a bypass around Belgrade, and I have to react to that. My colleague Bozovic, you and I, at least in several terms, were representatives of the City Assembly and I was president of the same Assembly in two terms and you know that these are development projects of Belgrade that have absolutely no connection with each other, correspondence with the project "Belgrade on Water". All of these projects in Belgrade's development plans will be done in time ahead, so it is very bad to go out with such a thesis that "Belgrade on Water" requires additional costs of 3.2 billion for projects that, I repeat, represent the development of Belgrade and are in any case planned by the Belgrade development strategy. At the very end, without wanting to politicise, I must remind you that the first meeting that entered the implementation of the project was held on 15 August 2013, where the meeting of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Gilas and then the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, where a joint working group of the government and the city of Belgrade and the working group in front of the city of Belgrade were attended by prominent members of the Democratic Party and the current Social Democratic Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25592	Time. Just finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25593	and that it was then defined that it was jointly defined that Belgrade was on the water much above party stories. I ask you to return to it and be at the height of that party you belong to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25594	Thank you. Balša Bozovic, please. No, you're not saying you said in my time. Be careful, you must look in accordance with Article 104 within the replica. A sentence to Mr Bozovic, you and I were in the city of Belgrade at the same time, you and I in the Assembly and in the facts we participated in working groups, etc. It's not within Article 104, but nothing at all. You want to talk about the amendment, or you don't want to talk about the amendment. Please return the time to Ambassador Balsha Bozovic. The cleanest thing is to sign up again, so I don't count the time. Again, to erase all of these seconds. Pull out the card, bring it back again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25595	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Although I was mentioned by Mr. Jovicic and the minister, I think I had the right to a replica, but okay, whatever you say, that's how it's gonna be. In the end, you're the President of the Assembly. So, what surprises me here is that the MPs are also talking about Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas, but also about Mr. Antic, as I understand some failures that you, Mr. Antic, have left some debris and a fracture in the Sava amphitheater area. I disagree because this land is still under the authority of the Republic, if I remember correctly, and I think I remember well, since I, like you, was in a few terms a committee member of the City Assembly. Now, what surprises me is that for projects that are the precondition of a private investor's investment costing three and a half billion euros, projects will not be paid by the City of Belgrade, but by citizens and Belgrade and Serbia and those in Doljevac and those in Smederjevska Palanca, but also by those in Novi Sad and Novi Knezovac. So, these are the preconditions, you are calling for something that cannot stand, as you know very well as the president of the former Assembly of the City of Belgrade, when this City Assembly was indeed a representative body of the jubilee, it could not have happened that some property of the City of Belgrade under a 1974 contract between Branko Pesic and Željnica, it is certainly familiar to you, free of charge, and here the government is trying to deceive the citizens by not telling them, but pushing the property of the citizens of Belgrade, the investor in the pocket, and that is if you agree half a billion euros. That's the cost. For what? Because this isn't a development project, Mr. Antic, and you're aware of that. It is not a development project because this is a private project of a friend of the prime minister who has not once shown willingness to invest three billion euros except for stories and release promises, because as you and I both know, no single euro has entered Serbia. Only 100 dinars entered as the founding capital of Eagle Hills, and here we have the Government of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25596	Would you be so kind as to hear something about the amendment? I was maximum tolerance, two minutes and 30 seconds, but if you mentioned the amendment, at least a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25597	But here I take into account what the amendment is, it's deleted, because we're not in favour of this law...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25598	Okay, you can't really talk about every amendment, you say -- we've submitted the amendment and then everything again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25599	Allow me, please. Let's be parliamentary at least today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25600	I am as parliamentary as opposed to individual MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25601	At least when it's citizens' interest, let me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25602	If you had a little respect for me, parliamentaryism is mutual respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25603	Last sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25604	Please, the last one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25605	I commend all the results of Mr. Antic and Mr. Gilas deeply because they led the city of Belgrade in a successful way, which is what most in this assembly are trying to do...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25606	I thank you. I have to shut you down. So you're absolutely not interested in my attempt to run the session at all. You don't care. I thank you for that. I thank you for everything. You missed both time and theme and only force, force and force today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25607	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25608	I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25609	At your parliamentary will.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25610	I must give the word to Minister Antic that something he can say today and the Government about the amendment. To answer you for what you didn't want to talk about the amendment and through your speech, you were talking about everything but the law. Would you like a glass? It's bad enough drinking out of a bottle in parliament? It's really ugly drinking out of a bottle in parliament. It is disrespect and it is a violation of this House's dignity. You can throw, I want Serbian citizens today to see how MPs who talk about democracy behave, about parliamentaryism. The bottle weighs here in front of the cameras, and I'm appalled by what we're experiencing here today. Here you are, Ambassador Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25611	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Ministers, Antiću, Selakovic, Vujovic and the Honored Guest of the Ministry, I believe that they have just been injured. 100th and 104th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I will try, Your Honor, to explain why I consider these members to be injured. First, Mr. Antic is a minister in the government and he has already used his time to point to some aspects, arguments about this amendment. Mr. Antic no longer has the right to speak under this amendment, but he can, the Honorable President, wait for the next amendment to say something. Mr Bozovic, the esteemed president, was entitled to a replica on the basis of Article 104, because Mr Antic did not just say that he and Mr Bozovic were sitting somewhere talking, but Mr Antic said that Mr Bozovic had told a lie. When a guest in our National Assembly says that he has spoken a lie, one inaccuracy, or one inaccuracy, then the MP, the honourable president, according to the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly has the right to receive a replica and to explain to the minister, in this case, that he may have made a very precise argument about his position. Third thing, Honorable President, you really don't have the right to judge that speech on the basis of article 100. You have the right to thank, to give your word, to perhaps answer the word that you participate in the discussion, but not to be a judge or judge, I don't know how you can accept it here now, the esteemed president of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25612	Your Honor, in these two minutes, Minister Antic has come out of the system and won't answer, so it's pointless what you've just told us. On the other hand, the President of Parliament is not someone who works at the airport, for example, in Belgrade and reads only the order of flight, but is only the first among the equals to be used by Article 27, which does not allow me to use a small number of MPs today at all, to use Article 27. Lawyers never read one member under one regulation, not one position, and in order to properly understand the regulation, all members must be analysed. Article 27 gives me the opportunity and orders me to try to run this session. I'm having a really hard time. I'm aware that obstructions are allowed, but within the frameworks, because indeed everything must have some limits. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25613	Madam President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I do not know which time I am today, I am disgusted by the amount of untruths that have been made and which MPs of the former regime are making, I suppose, in order to stop some of the processes. Just before, one MP said: "What, they came here with an investment, they invested only 150 thousand euros. I will call on this young colleague who presents himself as one of the leaders in Belgrade, we can tonight when we vote together this law, when you show good will at least to stay until the end, we can go to the Belgrade Co-operation building, but I will also take pictures of what this Belgrade Co-operation looked like when you ran politics in both Belgrade and Serbia, so we can see what it was like then, and what it is now, and what it is like to have four million euros invested there. Of course, disdaining your fellow citizens, demeaning the citizens of Belgrade, demeaning this parliament, you close your eyes to such things. But it speaks more of you than it does of the legislator of this law. Mr. Anticu, you said quite nicely, this project is more than a party interest. However, when another meeting is held after the meeting in the building in New Belgrade, which is also on land donated to Mr. Miskovic, so when the meeting is concluded with Mr. Miskovic, after the meeting, the interest of "Luke" is above and party interest and above Belgrade's interests. Then, Mr Antic, strategic goals change, general interests change, everything changes. Suddenly, "Luka Belgrade" is above all possible interests. Someone here said earlier that it was a shame to pick up a photo with what Belgrade looks like and what a move Belgrade will be on water like now and how they have and where they have brought it. I think, and I was hoping, when I saw the raised hand and raised the Rules of Procedure, that he would stand up as a colleague and make an apology. To apologize to the citizens of Belgrade, to make an apology to Serbia, because they devastated, destroyed, taken, kidnapped, but only about the interest of Belgrade's citizens and the better appearance of Belgrade did not take account. Just now another colleague said and pointed out as a value, as a DS policy that jobs are not of interest. Citizens of Serbia, I will remind you once again, from the words of the deputy head of the DS parliamentary group who said - jobs are not a priority, jobs are not the interest of Serbia. So what's different than that interest? So whose interest do you represent and defend, if not the interest of jobs and the employment of people in Serbia? But let's move on. I'll bring in another topic to think about those, and I'm sure if they don't want jobs to sway them, then something else will sway them. Bon appétit, Mr. Pavicevic. The restaurant is one floor lower in this building.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25614	Please, MP, I will react, but I do not wish to interrupt any more MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25615	A million and 800 thousand squares are being built under the project "Belgrade on Water". If we know that the average price, i.e. the average tax per square metre for living space in Belgrade, depends on the age of the facility and the locality, is a little more than 200 dinars per square year, so is it not the interest of our country, is it not the interest of Belgrade to build such a thing, that the state of Serbia tomorrow and in the future, in all the years, decades and centuries ahead and for all those generations ahead can charge real estate tax? The tax is not only small at the average price in Belgrade, and I believe that because of the quality of construction and for everything else it will be far higher. The annual budget of the Republic of Serbia is 40 billion dinars. So 40 billion dinars are not your public interest. So what's the public interest? "Luka Belgrade"? Well, say it openly, "Luka Belgrade", Delta, it's a public interest. Say what you represent once, no more gloves. I personally believe that the position is SNS, and I believe that the majority's position in the National Assembly is that the interest is 242,000 square meters of new green areas instead of all that you just saw, and from which you turned your head from images, let alone in reality. The public interest is also 62,000 square meters of schools, kindergartens, cultural institutions, social and health care. Public interest is 15 to 20 thousand people who will be engaged every day in years ahead of us at the construction of "Biograda on Water". The public interest, though not interested in DS and Mr Nikolic, is 13,000 people, what a projection it will be to work in these hotels, shopping malls, shops and in all the new values Belgrade will receive. Public interest is also the tax that this country will earn on the basis of a tax on property of 40 billion dinars per year. But it's free of all these sums, it's free of all these numbers, it's free of all these fates, when we have only one destiny on the other hand, when we have only one interest, when on the other hand we have only one man and that man's name is Miroslav Luka Belgrade Miskovic, and that's a priority for some in this room. For the Serbian Progressive Party, I believe for this assembly majority, and this will show today's vote, it is a priority for Belgrade, it is a priority for Serbia, it is a priority for citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25616	Thank you. Replica. MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25617	I was talking about the public interest defined by the Expropriation Act. Very precise, but free writes when there's no one to read. A party of former radicals, short-lived SBR, cut the grass, and now they're expecting applause.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25618	Please, Mr. Nikolic, I gave you a replica even though I'm not sure you're right. Don't use it by causing new replicas. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25619	Mr. Becic, let me finish. So they cut the grass and now they're waiting for applause. This is usually done by those whose strategic goal is to sharpen their hair. So when I don't know enough about a particular theme for the Assembly, I'm getting ready to ask and analyze what someone wrote, and he knows a lot more about it than I do. Or maybe the Engineering Chamber doesn't know enough about you? Or does the Serbian Academy of Architecture know nothing about you? Or does SANU know nothing about you? But then I guess you know everything. And then you know what, say, certain philosophers said about people who think they know everything. Three years and here's two days we've been hearing about SNS victories. And all your victories are historic, but your defeats are everyday. You folded your backs to the citizens by cutting wages and pensions, and now you tell them to raise your head to see how high the tower will be. We ask you one thing, you answer the other. It's too cloudy for anyone to believe in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25620	Thank you. You're not correct, Mr. Nikolic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pavicevic. How did Mr. Nikolic break the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Not Mr Nikolic but you.) Yes, but in Mr. Nikolic's speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25621	I, Mr. Becic, think I should be heard by other MPs, not by myself. Thank you for turning on the microphone now, you have injured Article 106, paragraph 3, which reads: “During the speech of the MPs, or other participants in the search, is not allowed,” Mr. Becic, “tossing, or distracting the speaker in another way, as well as any other procedure that threatens, ” Mr. Becic, freedom of speech of one MP, for example. During Mr. Nikolic's speech, Mr. Babic kept throwing, Mr. Becic. To my big surprise and Mrs. Barisic. It really surprised me now by my colleague Barisic. Also there is Mr. Martinovic, not to mention Mr. Djukanovic, Mr. Atlagic, etc. So it's not just about raising photos right now, it's about throwing up during the speech of one of the MPs. Mr. Becic, it is your duty to warn the MP who throws it, here and now it happens, not only with that bell, but to say as Mrs. Gojkovic does when one of us whispers something, she whispers right away – here he said it, here she said it. And you say, Mr. Babice, don't throw it away. Mrs. Barisic, don't throw it away. Mr. Martinovic, don't throw it away. And so, Mr. Becic, in turn. To all SNS MPs who, during the speech of the second MP, for example in the case of MP Dejan Nikolic, receive that MP. I guess we agreed to discuss the important bill today, the important issue that was declared a few weeks ago, actually months ago. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Becic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25622	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. You have defended or tried to defend Mr Nikolic, I don't think it is necessary, because Mr Nikolic knows it himself. If he thinks that his right has been violated, he will react, so there is no need for Mr. Pavicevic to do so, but it is your manners, because you have no other arguments at this time. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25623	I'm willing to answer everything, of course, but I'm preparing and how to ask questions to my DS colleagues, and I don't mean DS, she hasn't, I mean the Delta Party. When Bojan Pajtic will respond because the "Vojvodine Development Bank" achieved a net loss of seven billion dinars in the first six months of 2012. When Bojan Pajtic's criminal regime will answer for the robbery of the "Vojvodine Development Bank" compensated for the robbery of the people of Vojvodina because it was the capitalist Development Bank through the bonds of the AP Vojvodina that have reached the next 30 years, respected Serbian citizens, at fivem euros a year. When Bojan Pajtic will answer what various drug groups have laundered their money and what the famous Mile Jerkovic with the help of the same bank bought on dozens of agricultural goods in Vojvodina. What is the penalty for Bojan Pajtic for promoting Milet Jerkovic to a patriotic investor. You know, it's a patriotic investor. "Belgrade on Water" is something else, but Mile Jekrovic is a patriotic investor. What is the responsibility of Bojan Pajtic, which was invested in the "Vojvodine Development Bank", and all residents should pay as much as 18 times as their stock value at a time when you were both in Vojvodina and Serbia. When Bojan Pajtic will answer what the accounts and funds of the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund have emptied and spent on a person from the nearest political and private environment of Bojan Pajtic. What is Bojan Pajtic's responsibility because she spent 468 dinars of which 260 million credit without cover at the "Vojvodine Development Bank" campaign to finance the election campaign. That's what you from the Delta DS party say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25624	Do you see what I'm talking about, Mr. Nikolic, if you didn't have a lawyer, Mr. Babic wouldn't have the right to a replica and then he wouldn't have been able to state what Mr. Pajtic did everything. Here's a replica of Mr. Babic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25625	The fascination with Bojana Pajtic is almost equal to the fascination of Alexander Vukic and physically and mentally. It's easy to give speeches in the congregation, but it's hard to keep a word in the government. Here's how he keeps his SNS word. May 30. In 2014, production of FAP in September, the first 200 workers go, then another 200, then another 200. It's not true. "Belgrade on Water" since March at CNN, imagine that. The only thing on CNN we can see is that you represent us as a cheap workforce. So it's not true. We're building a monument to the principle in Belgrade. I don't want to elaborate on you, but it's not true. The airline components factory by the end of June, so the factory will be in Zemun to employ 600 people, so it will be in Panchev, so it is not true. The property origin law, until the first half of 2013, so why don't you bring it in. It's not true. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I wouldn't be looking forward to it if I were you.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25626	Please, Mr. Granny, don't make any money.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25627	No pension cuts, no legendary statement. It's not true. It's a 20% worth of electricity, that's just a lie. Twenty thousand dinars per hectare of farmland, untrue. It's not true until it's true. You wander from promise to promise, from research to research. You've turned politics into percentages of support, and aggressive propaganda, you hide your own incompetence, propaganda, Mr. Babic, is always a bad form of politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25628	Mr. Selakovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25629	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the untruths that are being expressed against the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its President, there is indeed no end, but it is the greatest indicator of someone's weakness. When you can't win the election, when you can't convince the citizens, then you take it and you convince yourself and admire yourself, and you admire someone and mentally and physically, and I don't go further, in other people's privacy, it's really not polite and it's not nice to talk, and you attack others. FAP, will it work? It will. Are the easy talks with Swiss Car from Finland? No, they're not. Will the FAP work? It will. It won't be closed. We're being criticized here, and someone's telling us that we're making the law so we can give something we say to someone private. This country, for example, used to build cements. When she was building cements, when she expunged the land of tiny owners, peasants, etc., and those cementists were once social property, and then she took the state, so she sold them to someone in her private pockets. Does anyone share their experiences with you? "Belgrade on Water", will it be "Belgrade on Water"? It will. You'll see, it'll start to build and that's not true, that's true. Will there be a monument to the principle in Belgrade? It will, to the great joy of all of us, and it should be. I'm sorry about the time-out, just one more sentence, you won't be mad. Each one speaks much more of himself in his own words than of the one he speaks of. Keep that in mind every time you speak. (Marko Atlagic, from the post: By Business. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25630	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Zivkovic, on what grounds? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: As a Proposer of the Amendment. Mr. Zivkovic, if you had listened carefully, you would have seen that you were not the amendment promoter. I see you didn't. It's just a group of MPs, along with Mr. Karic. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. Mr Balša Bozovic, the MP of the amendment, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25631	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we have suggested that this member be deleted, for the simple reason we felt anxious to violate the Constitution in several members, in Article 4, Article 58, but that is not all. We want to delete this member for a simple reason, which here the property of one person is taken away, but not for the benefit of the citizens and for the public interest, but for the state and the city of Belgrade which are the users of the expropriation, the same plot, the same property taken away by the owners of these facilities and the owners of the immovable property is handed over to the investor for profit. There's a big problem. This is the fundamental difference between the opposition and the ruling majority, because we suspect as you know that this project will never be realised, but it will therefore be properly paid by citizens of Serbia, all three and a half billion euros, 2,055 euros per person and everything it takes to make it easier for the investor to build two or three hotels, a shopping mall, and then put in a completely different plan the cultural heritage of Belgrade and the identity of the city and the symbols of the city of Belgrade, to humiliate the people of Belgrade because it will gain at the use of 177 hectares of the most promising part of the coast of Belgrade, something that belongs to the citizens of Serbia. Why do we doubt this project? Because none so far has been realised by the great promises made by the party in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25632	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25633	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is about the amendment to Article 9 and I've heard everything, I just haven't heard a single word about this amendment, but I've heard again a whole series of absolute untruths and perhaps uninformedness, maybe a word from someone who hasn't read the text of the reasoning, or an analysis of the effects, and in it I'm standing next and reacting to that untruth, which has been repeated here for the nth time. Therefore, according to spatial data, the area of special purpose is covered by an area of 177 hectares, the public area is 304 000 square meters. It's 17.7% of the total area, and we're talking about the fact that 5 percent of the parcels today are privately owned and someone here is telling us, for which time in a row, that there's an expropriation here not for the benefit of the citizens, and that expunged surrenders to the investor for profit, and that's what the flossules are said here for countless times. Absolutely, incorrect. If you have five percent of today's private-owned land and 95% state-owned land. For public areas over 17% is reserved and it is simple mathematics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25634	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been given by MP Zoran Zivkovic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25635	Article 9 which deals with the deadlines for expropriation and which should be deleted, first of all, which should be deleted by these earlier members, and also because it contains very strange solutions to our usual practice and this looks more like the rules of the court than the regulation of the expropriation procedure. Namely, in the seventh or eighth position, not to count, it says – the owner of the immovable property is obliged to declare within eight days of the date of receipt of the request for expropriation, written down or on the record. My colleague, will you let me speak, please? Thank you. So within eight days, since the state and I don't know who on behalf of the state is doing it, the owner of the immovable property is obliged to give his answer. It happens in a country where it takes two years to register something, it happens in a country where litigation takes thirty and a few years. It happens in a country where you can't get anything within eight days, no confirmation of someone's death, not God, let alone something more serious. Here he is placed by a court of law against the wall, except that his eyes are not yet tied yet, in front of a firing machine, this authority, a citizen who needs to be heard from as being thrown down as a proposal by an organ involved in expropriation. It is something that is unremembered in Serbia and therefore needs to be amended by this law. And since there is a finance minister, it would be nice to teach some MPs, who obviously do not know that the property tax is not the income of Serbia's budget, but local income that only goes through the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25636	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25637	Well, I didn't know the esteemed chairman that individuals who were otherwise city officials were so underprivileged to Belgraders. They say -- Belgrade's identity will be violated. Is this the identity of Belgrade? Is this it? I'm really sorry, do the Belgraders want to live in this? It is a shame how much you appreciate the citizens of Belgrade. I believe that no citizen of Belgrade wants to live in a den like this that you left down by the river. But, you know, Mr. Becic, I get the impression that we're back somewhere in the 19th century, at a time of government, say King Milan, when there was a fierce controversy in the assembly, should we accept the railroad? And that's when the assembly barely passed the proposal to build railways in Serbia. It was an incredible controversy and a terrible opposition to Serbia's modernisation. Otherwise, let me tell you, that train from Belgrade to Nis went 32km per hour. Those who left us a railroad like this, I don't think the train is going any faster today. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Ko) You know, and then we listened to almost the same controversy - someone is against modernization; so he says - I don't know, it violates identity. So why didn't you embellish that identity for all these years? Well, it's not like the identity of a den like this, is it? Who prevented you, for 15 years you've been the government in Belgrade, so why didn't you give us one wonderful identity of the city of Belgrade, so we can all be proud when we get down to the river? Really, I don't understand. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Who? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25638	Please, Mr. Stefanovic, refrain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25639	This is a system against life, against everything, and I would really ask you, here I am really not going to answer, who has such an opposition, can really be calm that he will be in power for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25640	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25641	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and chairing today's session, Mr. Bečić, the respected Ministers Antić, Vujovic and Selakovic, respected guest from the ministry, today the opposition has argued very well, very strongly against this bill and I have not yet heard an argument against our key argument from Mr. Selakovic, for example, to perhaps convince me to vote in favour of this bill. I know, for example, or I believe that Mr. Selakovic also knows that I can repeat that once again, that expropriation is always being carried out for a pre-defined project of public interest, envisaged by the regulatory plan. Gentlemen, the ministers have confirmed today - there is no project, and the expropriation is to be carried out. Mr. Selakovic, what is your answer to this argument, please report to answer this argument, Mr. Selakovic? The other thing, it can't be on behalf of anything, I'm bound to this argument, to confiscate property, so it sells to private persons respected gentlemen and Mr. Selakovic. Do you agree? If you agree, ask SNS MPs to vote against this proposal. And the third thing, nor the state's interest as a co-investor to make a profit, is not a public interest that justifies the confiscation of property respected gentlemen. Well, I'm going one step further here and, of course, I'm most interested in the opinion of the lawyers right now, especially the minister of justice who's in charge of the area, gentlemen of honor. But the minister doesn't have an opinion, because we have an argument, dear Mr. Becic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25642	Thank you, professor. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25643	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, it's worth someone and it's not worth persuasing, but in any case, it's sometimes more than a pleasure to enjoy the rhetorical theatre skills of individuals, especially those you value, as I appreciate Mr Pavicevic. Explosion can only be carried out under the law. I know there are those who don't like this bill, there are. They don't like the progress of Belgrade City, Serbia's progress, there are such. It does not like those with the most geographically beautiful, and in fact the most messy part of the city will be removed from what rose his face and create the first impression of that city to anyone who comes from abroad via "Gazale" crosses Sava and sees the image and opportunity of decades of carelessness, irresponsibility, and the disorientation of our city and our society. I haven't heard a single word about the amendment again. This law defines the public interest in the constitutional frameworks. You can either agree or disagree. He also defines it as a user of expropriation, defining the republic of Serbia. Perhaps someone, Mr Pavicevic, has previously treated Serbia as his own private matter and carried out his private interest, it is no longer so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25644	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's Messenger Alexander Jovicic has the word, and let the National Parliament of Branka Bosnjak be prepared. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Do I have the right to a replica? Since you've caused a replica, you have no right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25645	We heard a lot of arguments today when we talk about modernising Serbia through history, and if we talk about the railway that last came to Serbia when we talk about Europe in 1888, I understand the Serbian people, they're afraid of modernization in that time, maybe they're afraid that some military, such as Austro-Hungarian or any other, might come with that railroad, but what are you afraid of here? Here is a clean investment of three and a half billion euros, no soldiers, no torture, no nothing, just good for Serbia. That'll never be clear to me. They say the most attractive location, I repeat. Well, during your government, none of the tourists could look at that location unless there was a mandatory tetanus vaccination in the tourist content, maybe in that concept someone could go look at the most attractive location. Don't stop talking about an attractive location untapped for 50 years, it's counterproductive. Tell me -- we haven't seen that location at all, and now we see that this location exists, okay, "Belgrade on water" is no good, when we come back to power, we'll suggest something new. You say -- citizens will pay back two and a half thousand euros. What's he gonna pay back from? Sir, my esteemed colleague from one party has shared three and a half billion with the population and said – people will pay back so much and so much money, and we keep saying that this is a completely different concept than yours from your time, when it was easiest to take credit. This is people's investment, you understand. What a mess you've been saying today, I'll list one of them, there's a lot of them, I couldn't remember all of them. They say – the investor will come, build several buildings, pick himself up and leave. Well done. If we had 100 investors like that, we'd be the richest country in the world. They're not going anywhere, they want a profit. They say - investors will make a profit. Well, of course they're going to make a profit, but one party that's long been in power of the former regime has been making a profile without investors, so you have some certain people who are raising on the Vracar, the most attractive location, the building. Was that a good investment? Maybe that man's afraid he won't be able to sell apartments on the Wizard right now. As he got to that location, how he found the money to build it, I really don't know, but he had an influential position at the top of the state. On the other hand, I'm going back to the amendment. They say: property is taken away. I really don't know what's being taken away in that rural part of Belgrade. That someone who had any possession at that attractive location will certainly get something called at least the elemental level of life. As you can see, I was looking at one of the contributions where one of the families got an apartment on Vracar, the other one was moved to another location. So people get normal living conditions. When we talk about expropriation, it's only 5% of the entire location. You guys are destructive a lot. Serbian citizens see it. You've been trying to convince Serbia not to develop for two days. Two days in continuity you are trying to convince the citizens of Serbia that it is better not to do anything but to do something. If we just clean up that ruin you left us, we've done a great thing for Serbia. I'm not saying that's enough, but unlike what you've shown, it's too much. We do not meet such goals, to clear the wreck, we want to leave something for the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade. We want economic recovery. I've set an example for you. Supposedly, they say there will be 10, 15 thousand employees. Make it five thousand, at any time, times the gross earnings of 800 euros, 40m euros annually on salary alone. These are our fellow citizens who will spend money in our country. On this basis, we will develop our GDP. On this basis, we will acquire capital so that we can further develop infrastructure. For two days, you've convinced us that there should be no end to Prokop, that the bus station is at its best location and that it should never be moved from there. Guys, I can see now why you took such a small number of percent in the election, no wonder. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Who? Who? One party? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Which?) Well, one party. Maybe he's picking up. Your client, Borko Stefanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25646	Please, Mr. Jovic, don't. Finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25647	I'm done. So don't make us do anything. We've seen what it's been like since 2000. We will work hard for Serbia, worthy of Belgrade. We saw how you were building and how you were developing our city. You made the Delta City concept, of which there was only one man of interest. We are making "Belgrade on Water" of which the whole of Serbia is interested. That's where we differ.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25648	Mr. Stefanovic, just a notice, I listened very carefully to what the previous speaker said. Someone on this side provoked him – which party, which party, which he said, is yours. I didn't have time to turn my head and see who it was, so I don't know which party it was referring to. Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25649	The Honorable Chairman, respected gentlemen of ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, the law that we are analysing today in particular is a prejudicial law on the determination of public interest and it defines the practical procedure and it is the prejudicial law of the administrative procedure. So much for me as an architect, relatively, I'd like to comment on a little bit. I've called to discuss and comment on Amendment 9. I wanted to say something on amendment eight, Mr. Chairman, but I guess in this complex session, you kind of missed it. I'm going to try to sublime my position on both. Article 9 of the Law defines the procedure and procedures of expropriation and defines the first part, which refers to the completion and submission of documents, means the conduct in the case of incomplete documentation, the appeal of the conclusion, the deadlines for submission, the issuing of expropriation solutions, the possibility of completing the documents relating to the solution issued, or the submission of an appeal. Here was the comment that the amendment is deleted because the deadlines are short. What I'm trying to say is that these are the usual deadlines for administrative proceedings. So much is it when a member of the law is read: eight days, eight days, three days' treatment, 15 days' notice. It might all seem short and fast. But what we all want is an effective administration. It would be good if this law confirms it. We all want the whole project to be implemented as efficiently as possible, if the deadlines are good, if we stick to them. This was about some interest in fast earnings, and I would like to comment on a proposal that says that the market value of compensation for land users or property owners should and could be market value plus 20% of the value of the established area for the future facility to be built on that parcel. I'd draw attention to that being far from real, far from possible. In this area we have facilities that are mostly illegally built, most of these objects are either not authorised in the legalisation process or are authorised in the legalisation process, and imagine if the owners of the property that was built without permission and legalized in the legalisation process would be able to make 20% of the future investor, who builds 20-30 thousand squares in a specific location, of the future built surface. So four thousand squares. It's certainly not a fair proposal, nor do I think the SDPS would support such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25650	Mr. Stefanovic, by amendment? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25651	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So our parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 9 amending the whole of Article 9, so all 11 views, because we are completely dissatisfied with the way the motionor defined the procedure for expropriation. I am not satisfied and I would like Mr. Vujovic to answer me or give me a more detailed explanation. So the government has rejected our amendment on the grounds that it is not accepted because the proposed deadlines are more appropriate, but the amendment does not only contain a change in deadlines, but also contains a change in the whole procedure where more rights are given to those whose property is being expunged. I would ask Mr. Minister to give me an explanation as to why the other provisions of this amendment are not acceptable, because we really wanted to protect the owners of the property that were taken away with a fair fee. As proposed, they will have the right to complain about the solution, but their appeal cannot cause any legal fact, because it is eight days, and the oral debate must be held within three days. If they use that deadline and complain within eight days, and the oral debate takes place earlier, it simply makes no sense or effect complaining. Also, this amendment sets out the obligation of an expropriation authority to make a certain solution, and already in the next article, the proposer deals with the issue of silence of the administration. I'd like to get an explanation of why this amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25652	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Milena Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Aleksandar Senic, Dusan Petrovic... I'm sorry. I have to read it again. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MPs Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovan Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Zivkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25653	Article 10 is a logical continuation of Article 9 which I have just explained and I have not received any response from either the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Finance, they continue to defend themselves by silence, when someone is speaking specifically about the amendment, so I will try to get a logical answer through Article 10. Article 10 gives us another answer is the udurma, why it's so blurry. The deadlines are incredibly short again. It says – unless the competent authority makes a solution to the expropriation within the time limit set out in this and that member of this law, the user of the expropriation shall have the right to a special appeal for the silence of the administration. If the situation arises, complaints about the silence of the administration are submitted to the ministry and resolved again, behold, miracles, within eight days. The most efficient thing in Serbia is to conduct an expropriation for the needs of the "Belgrade on Water" project. So you don't have those deadlines anywhere. I repeat, the catastre has been unable to register here for two years the simplest, where all the papers and the entire procedure are completely clean, and here conditions are created that whoever wants to execute the expropriation does so according to the court's procedure, by making the offer to the owner of the property. He's got eight days to answer. If he doesn't respond in eight days, he practically has to accept that offer. The administration will be silent and will remain silent for eight days, then the expropriation user will receive silence from the administration all rights in 15 days. It doesn't exist anywhere. Even with the notaries in that law fraud, it couldn't have gone through, let alone now. Therefore, it is clear why the competent ministers remain silent on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25654	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25655	The silence of the administration to which citizens will be entitled to appeal for just eight days in a situation where our legal system and all other steps and multi-stage procedures to be conducted, including procedures relating to registration and registration of ownership and all other accompanying documents, which take up and take up too much time for the citizens of Serbia in a completely inefficient atrophied system, is absolutely unrealistic and is absolutely set up as part of the overall unrealistic project and this unreal member. That's why we felt that, since it's all unrealistic, that in that sense this unrealistic part of the unreal bill is being erased. Because what the citizens of Serbia will do, i.e. The citizens of Belgrade who have the right to appeal, the silence of the administration, is eight days' notice, so what will they do in case we repeat what we had by the same investor, say, in Erbil, in Kurdistan? Here, same investor, two towers not one. After that, you see the view from the water. Same thing. After that, you have promenade, promenade, artificial lake, the same thing. You have a complete model with two towers that reminds very much of "Belgrade on Water". And there's the president of Nigeria. That's what you have in Pakistan, and then you see the results. For a decade, this project has progressed to even the second floor. Here's the second floor, you have one crane. My question – whom to complain to and after how many days of silence that will cause...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25656	Mr. Stefanovic, what does this have to do with this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25657	It does, because it has to do with silence. The silence of the administration in case this happens. So, in case this happens...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25658	Well, now, Mr. Stefanovic, but it has nothing to do with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25659	There's a way, please, I'm explaining. According to Article 10, citizens are entitled to enrolment and expropriation, if the administration is silent, it is eight days. So, in case we have these images, respected citizens of the same investor, I repeat, at over ten locations in the world, over the past 12 years, where they have managed to reach two floors, two floors of distinguished fellow, say you from one party colleague... (Alexander Jovicic, from the post: From which party? From a party of former radicals. Then you have a situation in Pakistan, let's say in Syria, a facility was built.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25660	Mr. Stefanovic, I will not allow this correct debate in the past few... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Please, it is very correct. I will not allow you to play with the National Assembly in such a way. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Before that, Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25661	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently the one who criticises the bill in this way, the law in general has neither understood nor read it. Article 10 states – unless the competent authority adopts an expropriation solution within the time limit laid down in Article 9 of Article 7 of this Act, the user of the expropriation shall be entitled to a special appeal for the silence of the administration. An expropriation user is the Republic of Serbia, represented by the state's defence office or the City of Belgrade. Obviously, the pots got a little mixed up -- I want to criticize it, but I don't know how I'm going to do it, so I'm going to say something if it goes away -- it goes away, if it doesn't go away -- nothing. My esteemed colleague is a good lawyer, and I respect him very much, and I only tell him one thing. Before you criticize it, take it and read the law, systematically interpret the norms, the law is one connected whole, and you can see it from this. So, the expropriation user has the right to appeal, if you don't know who he is, you read the whole law, so you see who the expropriation user is. So, the silence of the administration here affects the citizen? No, I don't. It affects the City of Belgrade or the Republic of Serbia. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place where citizens live. It's not a throw, we're talking. Sit down and read.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25662	Mr. Stefanovic, don't throw it away, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25663	Mr. Stefanovic didn't mean anything by it. I believe he's very well-intentioned...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25664	He can't throw things out of place.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25665	... and that he really wants Belgrade to shine in its full glory and here's an opportunity for that. This will affect the state and the City of Belgrade, and will bring citizens much, much, much better, much more than it was in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25666	Thank you, Mr. Selakovic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25667	Thank you, Your Honor. Today one party started with some particular images, we have indeed shown that Belgrade's real state is today. We saw just a presentation that the company that will build "Belgrade on Water", that is, the company that will give three and a half billion euros, built two floors. Personally for me, Mr. Chairman, it's two floors better than this picture. Believe me, if I were to choose between the two floors that they built in 10 years and these ruins that some of them made in 15 years of my power, I would choose two floors. But in order to make those two floors, it is necessary to first clean something up as we have cleaned up corruption in this country, as we have cleaned up crime in this country, as we have stopped, to clean up tycoon political ties, so we will also clean up the Sava amphitheater. I think that with these results that I have now presented, which we have managed for a very short time, although there have been many who have tried in all possible ways to put stakes in wheels, we have done far more than 1996 for Belgrade. But it is unclear when representatives of the former regime say – it is good, Zagreb will descend on the Sava and we support it, and on the other hand we do not support "Belgrade on Water". It's sad for me. I would never work harder and wish for someone else to succeed than my country. Now I could list here and Mr. Jovicic and Babic and this Micino for the first time and what is defined as a goal. There's a series of things here now. My expectation, for example, is to put this very quickly as a part of the agenda, so that all day, both in principle debate and in amendments, we are discussing it as we are today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25668	Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. Did you mention that? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I am mentioned by name. I'm sorry, the attention's a little low. Sometimes I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25669	I'd like to thank your colleague for confirming that he mentioned me. I was talking about whether that rag, as it was said, was of the law good or not. Permissions for 28 days began to be issued in Serbia. It's one of the best and most reformable laws, and as such, it shows that it's not a rag. But the policy some people have here, which the amendments have helped, I mean the MPs of the former regime, have made it possible for the citizens of Serbia to have patience, and they're a bountifully patient. And that's what everyone in Serbia knows. But what is more surprising to me is that when this law on this settlement arrangement is put into practice and it has become a bill of law, then the legislator said - I demand Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic to organise, as the chairman of the board of directors, to organise public listening. Beware of this fundamental ignorance of procedure, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, because when one law is in the process, when it becomes a bill of law, there is no more public debate. The public hearing was supposed to be. It was to be proposed to organise a public debate, but it was faster or better without a public debate, without procedures, released into the procedure and the father-in-law. And then you ask Mr. Mrkonjic to do something that's impossible to do. That's why Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic laughs and supports what I'm saying. Let's get started. Let's get started. Let's work. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I am mentioned. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25670	Are you mentioned? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I am mentioned. ) Yes, but here there are, Mr. Pavicevic, 15th Amendment Proposer. (Vladimir Pavicevic throws out of place) What did Mr Babic think in 22.13 minutes, it just... . Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25671	Article 15 of that first group of members where something is trying to cloud Belgrade waters could be successfully implemented, although it will not succeed. So, what's the problem here? The last member, i.e. the position, which is said to be the final account between investors and the city of Belgrade, will be composed after the construction of all the facilities covered by the plan's document is completed. That never happened in Belgrade. Never. The city had never done so, but at the end of each phase, they had a regulated obligation to build it and had once negotiated the next phase in advance. This is how one investor is favored throughout the city. And that is another proof that behind this bill is something dirty and something that aims to break the Constitution, break the law, and all that goes around, we come up with a situation that we're going to be in front of a project that's counter-constitutional, building inconsistencies and economically catastrophic to the state. I'd like the finance minister to give me an answer to this finding of mine. Since I have another 30 seconds, everything has been said, I am the only one who has spoken about the amendments in the last three hours, we have heard all the other stories, and we have even heard one story about the October authorities and the Winter Authority and Mr. Pavicevic has made a fine observation that every government is October, of course it is an axiom and there is no story there, but those who recognize themselves as the Thutinarian Authority are absolutely right. Because that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25672	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25673	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becicu, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as my predecessor, Mr. Zivkovic, has said, is typically a murky member, as he speaks of the construction of city building land for public purposes, as well as the construction of public property facilities that are realised by an investor based on a contract, which, of course, does not exist, will be recognised as a settlement of the overall obligation on the name of the contribution to the construction of construction land. So who will evaluate the value of public buildings and the area of public purpose? There's an open door to corruption here. That's what the Anti-Corruption Agency said, and it was just quoting this member, which we said had to be erased, even the final account between the investors and the city will be made only after the last building from that famous model that lies there in the Geozod, and we know ourselves that more than two buildings will not be built here. So no income will ever be achieved by investors under the arrangement of city building land. In the last 30 seconds, if you allow me, this job represents in this article, right in this article, an open possibility of corruption, and trust me on the word that no government, after this one who falls very quickly, will allow this thing to remain unsolved and now someone can rebel, the government to hide behind the majority in this House, but the ministers of this government must know that no one will escape responsibility for corruption... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25674	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25675	Thank you, Your Honor. It is amazing that a colleague who spoke before me and his, of course, parliamentarians often use the term "must" and "must" and "corruption" and "percent". I don't know why you're doing an auto project. We are aware that everything you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, you've done, If Serbia today and the Government today proposes a law of public interest completely transparently, legally, that everyone can see, we're discussing it for two days, what's the matter? I repeat, you made Delta City, we make "Belgrade on Water". Delta is full of profits for one man, "Belgrade on Water" a better economic future for all Serbia and Belgrade. You have not exploited the potential of the most attractive location on the Balkan Peninsula and you are talking about corruption and what is cloudy. Is it a good example of how you gave credit to the Development Bank? You give the businessman 200,000 euros in credit, and he gives you 143,000 toothbrushes back. That's not cloudy? It's all obviously fair, good and in the public interest. We're used to you, dear colleague, not working in the public interest. Among other things, a colleague from your parliamentary club today said, I quote, it is not a public interest to hire citizens of Serbia, and that point should be placed. The more and the longer you talk, the counterproductive for you. How can you be against the development of Belgrade? How can you be against Serbia's development? I repeat for the fifth time today I chair and interrupt. They do not have a problem with "Belgrade on Water". Apparently, they have enormous jealousy and hatred for a man who, after 110 years of dreaming about the project, wants to implement it in Serbia, Belgrade. For one reason only, and that is the interest of the citizens of Belgrade, the interest of the citizens of Serbia, because it means the future of our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25676	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Bosnjak, and then a National MP, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25677	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, Article 15, which has been proposed by the amendment, is in fact a member who defines the payment of contributions to the construction land. I will refer to a part of this member that is particularly important to me, which is that the local self-government unit can prescribe that works on the construction of the building land can also be entrusted to the investor and that it is actually part of the participation for the arrangement, i.e. for contributions to the construction land. In principle, I think this view of this member is an ideal solution because it relaxes the country from the primary high cost of regulating building land and, of course, it would have put us in a position not to give up land to investors, and this is how these initial costs are overcome. What matters to me and why I volunteered to address this amendment is that this procedure must be extremely transparent. And, in so much as I ask the Minister in charge and in general the Government that the process of adhering to the realisation of the infrastructure or the facilities of public purposes is transparent and at the prices that are marketable. I say this because we are aware that even now similar situations, and in the past we have had similar situations, and probably even now, there are, that land in cities is subject to bids where an investor who represents the highest price for building land considers those to be assigned to land, and later, in the course of the contract with that investor, contracts are made to pay the costs that he or she makes, or the prices he has quoted, are negotiated through squares that give way to the city. This has throughout history been a polygon for very large abuses. The contractors who were getting, at the expense of the highest price, realised whether the apartments gave you a business space and did not pay upfront building land, but made contracts by paying the land afterwards. They were first favored for having no initial costs, also favored for not paying cash. Third, the price at which they negotiated the square, i.e. as the city recognised it, was subject to the agreements and had no public control. It's actually this element actually for whom I draw attention by analysing this amendment and, of course, the fourth and perhaps most important for that investor, he had an advance buyer for his squares by having his city as a buyer. I don't think this is a complete analogy, but I suppose it's clear to the ministers in the government why I'm focusing on the need, the transparency of this member. He's inevitable since we don't have the money to equip the land, but I really ask that the public and all of us MPs, I'm sure we agree on that, should be transparent and public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25678	Thank you, Mrs. Bosnjak. The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, and then MP Balsa Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25679	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, was also involved with this member of the law by the Anti-Corruption Agency. Since there was no public debate, then this state body that should fight to prevent corruption and to analyse laws that are being adopted and other documents to reduce the possibility of corruption, they did not have the opportunity to say and point to the problems they see. What do they see problematicly in Article 15? This is the position of 5, which is said to be able to make an agreement with the investor to do certain projects, infrastructures and, therefore, to practically settle its payment obligation, to equip infrastructure that the city expects 33.6 billion dinars from, and thus justice by investing the city's earlier 33 billion dinars in infrastructure equipment. What do those people say? If such a proposal is adopted, it will be possible to designate an investor without a public procurement and competition procedure to conclude the contract without predetermining the price and time of payment. That means, the investor will take the obligation without a deadline to build schools and kindergartens, is it, that they allegedly exist. We don't know if they really exist because there's no plan, but word is they exist. We don't have a deadline in which these schools and kindergartens will be built and we don't know the price at which this investor will do it and is that the most favourable price? Can another investor build a school or kindergarten at that location at a lower price? The Anti-Corruption Agency has drawn attention to avoiding public procurement and the price and time of payment will not be determined. There is also attitude six that says that the final reckoning will take place only after the completion and the final construction of all the buildings. It means never in practice. Fortunately here, the Finance Committee has given an amendment that says that in the event of the termination of the contract, what was then built will be accounted for, but if there is no termination of the contract will never be paid. This means that the question is whether the city will charge 33.6 billion dinars, as explained in this bill, will be charged by investors, and that is what we believe Belgrade's citizens will have as a debt in the office budget for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25680	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25681	Thank you, I'm using the time of the Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25682	You don't have another time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25683	So we have exactly eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25684	You have it, but I don't think you have it under the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25685	Why did we say that this article is one of the most controversial in this bill? Because it opens up the possibility of corruption. That's what Mr. Marko Djurisic was talking about right now. When will investors and will they make up for anything to arrange the land? Under this law, it's obvious they'll never do that. Does that further cast doubt on everything we've been saying all these days? Yeah. Is this why the professional public, for which the prominent Belgrade lawyers, the Anti-Corruption Agency, have criticised Serbia's proposal for the law? Yeah. Are we going to let this pass and thus embarrass ourselves in front of the world and the environment? The way it's going, it looks like we will. Once again, we call on the ruling majority not to vote, not for this member, but for this bill. He is executed by the interests of Serbian citizens, as well as by people from the Academy of Science and Arts, people from the professional, domestic and foreign public, prominent individuals, impressions of architecture. Economic experts spoke, well-intentioned citizens spoke, I must repeat both actors and writers, painters, various artists throughout Belgrade and Serbia, various our people abroad, recognised by foreign Academy of Science and Art. Everyone's expressing fear. There's no one who said one positive word about this project. Whether it is called "Belgrade on Water", so you will represent it with new jobs or public interest, whether it is called "Disnilend" in Kragujevac, whether it is called "Bambilend" in Pozarevec, it's not all the same. He will never be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, because the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia will pay for what this member of the law does not pay for the investor as the only one and because he puts himself in a privileged position unlike everyone else in Serbia. Here's an example of which. I have one example, only one. The Ambo company is building a residential business centre in New Belgrade. They neatly, as a successful domestic company and company, paid for and arranged city building land and bought land, on which basis they were granted a building permit. The investor for the so-called "Belgrade on Water" does not have to pay a contribution to the construction land. He doesn't have to pay the land to give him a building permit. These are the amendments and additions to the laws that you gentlemen have adopted. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic assured us that there would be no evil business or corruption, and apparently not. It is obvious that the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to amnesty for the responsibility of all those who have negotiated with the investor. Whether someone owes him something, so this way he returns it to the citizens of Serbia, I don't know and I don't say it, but it's obviously a bad job, and that's why we said he was blurry two days ago. Those who say history repeats itself, so that it costs us all more and more, and this is an opportunity to go to the citizens of Serbia tomorrow and tell them – we voted in your interest, we did not support this law. You still have a chance. You're running out of time, but first of all, it's time for those who today represent the government of the Republic of Serbia, and that's why I think the citizens in the first next election will show what they really think about all these things you promised. "Belgrade on water" in both this member and each other represents nothing more than the interest of an individual who is called a public interest here. It's just not the case and it'll never go away. I know that Mr. Martinovic, and Mr. Becic, and Mr. Babic, and Mr. Jovicic, and many who represent the ruling majority here. They know that, of course, and the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They know there's no contract, no pre-contract. So they know there's no guarantee that everything we've shown from these models will be built. They know that Serbia has not been restored since the floods, but will therefore direct citizens and budgets to a completely one missed and wrong project. They know this is against the Constitution and the law. They know that this is how they favor an investor. They know this is a matter no one from Serbia will benefit from, and at least the citizens of Belgrade. They know that this is a violation of the Constitution and in that section of cultural heritage. They know very well that there's a small demand for business housing, but they're still falling into this project, because they obviously have no idea what else to spend their money on. If we've made sure that this is a company that in many countries, both in Iraq and Iran, and in Syria, and in Kenya, and in Pakistan, and in India, and in Egypt, has similar offers, similar promises, and that not one percent of what was promised is achieved, so I guess that tells you enough. Since we have called on the Democratic Party of Serbia to leave Belgrade for the sake of this project and the interests of Serbian citizens, we are also calling on this occasion the Socialist Party of Serbia to leave the government of the Republic of Serbia, because this is not in the interest of Serbian citizens, and I am sure, Mr Mrkonjic, that you know that too. You're a serious man who's worked on serious projects and, you know, unlike some of the old times, how much this really has nothing to do with common sense and sound logic. There's no business here. There are no new jobs here. There's nothing here but the private interest that the government makes you call public interest. There is no project "Belgrade on Water". We have three models, and we don't know which one of those three is the project. We don't know who's doing the project. We don't know if these people ever set foot in Belgrade, those who are doing the project. The joints are business and the government of the Republic of Serbia is very well aware of this. Gentlemen of the People, you are my colleagues, although we have a different opinion, you think one thing, we think the other. We fought fair for this thing, even though there was no public debate. But, among other things, I'm saying this for you. Don't vote for this bill. This law violates all principles of constitutionality and domestic and Serbian legislation and European legislation and international conventions. This law will be paid by Serbian citizens. Get revenge, we have a little more time and don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25686	I thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25687	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to whom it has not been clear until this moment why DS has lost the election until now and why they will lose those who follow, from this moment on, it will be absolutely clear to him. I only ask you, dear colleague Bozovic, continue to defend your party's views on every law we propose. I think it will provide you with a very perspective and a bright future, and I'm sure your party will find that position beneath the censorship. There's so much nonsense being said here, but absolute nonsense that really whatever you touch when you listen to this, and you want to replicate it, you won't make a mistake. Let's start with what one of the other predecessors said. Why don't you find me one single member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act that she's in charge of giving an opinion on other laws that have nothing to do with fighting corruption? One single member. He's gone. Is this a story about transparent procedures for someone who has concluded multimillion-dollar contracts under the label confidentially, where hundreds of millions of euros have gone to Serbian citizens? Is someone like that telling us about transparency? He says this is a failed project. So was that the failed project Mr. Dragan Gilas, after talks with Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, said it was a project for the future of Belgrade? It's the same project. It's said to be a violation of cultural heritage. Well, the violation of cultural heritage is the part of the Savamala that you left in a terrible state, the way we started to take care of the Belgrade Cooperative building. This is a project in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade and we will continue to implement and implement this project. I apologize for overstepping my time, but just once again to mention, to whom it was not clear why my distinguished predecessors lost their election, after this it was absolutely clear to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25688	I thank you, Mr. Selakovic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25689	Thank you, Your Honor. Since I have very little time, I'm just going to ask the gentleman who spoke before Mr. Selakovic one question. Is it true, and it is true, we all have evidence that in 2010, the general urban plan of Belgrade because of Belville, where you had the ground floor concept plus five floors on the ground floor plus 13 floors? You've changed that, that you're not ashamed, and no one's ever said anything to you against it, but you've done it far from the public eye. On the other hand, you say "Ambo". If the Ambo company has 3.5 billion euros, let them come to a meeting tomorrow with whoever, mayor, prime minister, to begin work tomorrow. You're citing a company that's building on New Belgrade and you're comparing it to a 3.5 billion investment. How can you not be ashamed? One more thing. It's not true that you don't pay for building land. 250m euros are paid through infrastructure and works and Serbian citizens are not losing anything on this, understand that already, only they can get.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25690	Thank you. The word has the head of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, Dr Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25691	Dear colleagues, I know this debate has stalled and the opposition is trying in every way to mobilize the support it lost in the elections. I really like the suggestion of our young, respected colleague, and I attribute it to his inexperience and youth. At the same time, I understand his regret for the days when they were in power with us, thanks to the SPS 2008 decision to enter into partnership with them. If they had listened to our advice and learned from our mistakes, not now in power and opposition now, mistakes that do not suit the democratic option might have gained greater support in the election. Mr. Jr. called my distinguished party friend, Milutin Mrkonjic, who will enter political history not only as one of the SPS officials, but as well as a great builder and restorer. I want to evacuate a scene from the Beška Bridge in 2011 when the then president of Serbia, while the president of the DS, was impressed with the building block of the Beška Bridge, which is over two kilometers, which is in fact the largest bridge in the Danube. I will quote his statement, so I am talking about Boris Tadic who praised Milutin Mrkonjic's work and the builders and said – fantastic architectural construction work. He invited the media to write about it and make songs and movies. When he left power, he said we'd see each other in another movie. They're in opposition now, we're still in power. That call to get us out of the existing ruling coalition is not a movie they're going to watch.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25692	Thank you, Mrs. Vukomanovic. You're looking for a replica on behalf of Mr. Bozovic? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Not on behalf of Mr Bozovic. The name of Mr Boris Tadic was directly mentioned. Did you mention Mr. Tadic? Yeah. I guess in a positive context, because I'd hear it's negative, but if you think that's enough, go ahead, Mr. Djurishic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25693	Thank you, Your Honor. Policy is not about being in power, it's not about going into politics just to be a government, gentlemen of the Socialists. Of the 25-year-old multi-party in Serbia, you've been in power for 21 years. I can understand that you don't understand. The point of politics is to fight for your ideas whether you're in power or in opposition. I'm glad you said something now that you're not going to say when your current coalition partners here say that nothing has been done since 2008 until 2012. Here, Mr. Mrkonjic, just so something doesn't fit your throat, you were talking about building a bridge in Vienna in 2011. At the end of 2011, the bridge was launched on Ada, six months ago a second bridge was opened on the Danube, which started at the time of 2008 until 2012. And what did this government start? What is this infrastructure facility where the Prime Minister, the ministers, will come to take pictures and show the citizens what's left behind? Here you go, Mr. Grouchy. What's that? A walking pass to the leader the other day that was opened. Are these infrastructure facilities? Is that what's left behind this government? Yes, it is. You didn't do anything, and now you're talking about big dreams, about Manhattan on Savi. I'd love to, and the Prime Minister here was talking about Manhattan on Savi. I'd like that to happen. (Alexander Jovicic, from the place: That's what you were saying.) It's your project. But you and I too, Mr. Jovicic, are young enough not to wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25694	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. I'd like to ask you next time just a little bit quieter because I didn't understand half of you, because you're yelling so hard. The word is Dr. Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25695	Here are the hours. They've been running for minutes since you've been in the opposition. I would now like to count those years since we haven't decided since 5 October 2000 on what's going to be built because we haven't been the backbone of the coalition. So now I'm going to list 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2008, 2009, 2010, and here's the year 2011 when Minister Mrkonjic was responsible for building the Beška Bridge, only then could Boris Tadic take a picture with something concrete. I also remind you that the bridge on Ada, which was overpaid, was built with the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, but a report on how Mayor Gilas displaced the Roma into the annals of the world. It's a picture and an opportunity of a democratic option, or former DOS, former DS, and I'm afraid it'll simply be remembered about what and how you've been doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25696	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25697	Replica, since I am honored to be a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia whose President Aleksandar Vukic is and one of the previous exhibitions. Dear Mr. People's MP, the government of the Republic of Serbia under the presidency of Alexander Vukic and who has the greatest support in this respected home does not do things to be photographed or done so to promote the marketing self in some campaign, but to scout all the wounds that occurred as a result of the absolute economic, financial, social verse we encountered in 2012. Is the P.C.S. in Smeder's nothing that employs over a thousand people? Is the Ironstone we're putting on our feet anything that employs 5,500 people? Is Johnson Electronics in Nis anything? Is "Er Serbia" nothing? Was yesterday's open "Jinsi" in the destroyed Krukupnje under an elementary accident nothing? How much in the unfortunate King after the earthquake of new jobs did you open or did you just know that you were beating and destroying both the Car Factory and Magnochrom. You're a serious man. Serious people seem to be serious and speaking, and what was said earlier was not so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25698	Thank you, Mr. Selakovic. The replica you want on? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Minister speaks of my presentation all the time. And when did Mr. Minister mention you? I didn't understand that, Mr. Djurisic, that Mr. Minister spoke about your presentation, but if you've recognized yourself in what the minister said, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25699	I recognized myself, of course. I don't have any problem with what was done by 2012 and what is done now. I welcome everything that's been done. Every job that's open. Every new investment, but we can also talk about "Fiat" and talk about "Jinsi" in Leskovec, talk about "Beneton" factory, talk about "Bosa", that we don't even know how open it is in the Caves, what was done in Old Paz, there in the industrial zone, what was done in India, what was done in Subotica. "Svarovski" was agreed in 2011, it took time for the factory to open, you forgot to say it was open several months ago. I'm glad it's happening. I ask what the deal is now, what is it offered to the citizens of Serbia now? It's a little bit of that. We talked Mercedes in FAP, so nothing. So "Sweis" in FAP, so nothing. We talked about how someone would buy a hardware store, now we've got some management, we don't know who, or how, or how much we pay them. The prime minister says - I saw the manager in Slovakia, so the manager sits in Smederev and runs the factory or sits in Slovakia and leads the phone 15 minutes a day. So I welcome everything this government does to create new jobs in the development of the economy. But it's not enough and citizens feel it every day, on all the thinner bills and the harder life. And this project that we've been talking about for two days won't help better citizens live and that's why we're against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25700	Time. Thank you. We could also talk to those hundreds and hundreds of thousands of lost jobs in the last 12 years. Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25701	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I enjoy how a man manages to regain consciousness in just two minutes. Every job that has been opened in Serbia in the past 15 or 20 years is respected and respected. First of all, I respect and respect the will of the citizens of Serbia, "Voks Populi", "Voks Day", the voice of the people, the voice of God, and the people gave their vote in the elections. You counted eight, nine firms in 15 years, I apologize, not 15, 12 years of government. I've counted almost as many companies for about two years of government where the SNS has its backbone. And I'm telling you, this project is for your own good, and you will benefit from this project. You said Manhattan on Savi, so that's what the D.S. government said, that's what Mr. Gilas said. It seems Mr. Gilas knew how to recognize what the future was. It seems clear why Mr. Gilas is no longer with you. And he could recognize it. I'm telling you, you'll also see the Swiss car in FAP. You will also see completed investments that you couldn't see, which you couldn't finish, but what you won't see, you won't see investment contracts under a sign of "confidential" that no one in Serbia can yet and cannot see. That's what it's called - a corrupt thing. I also welcome every new job that's been opened by that contract. But it's not transparent, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25702	We've completed a circle of replicas on this subject. It's completely gone into some policy, we haven't finished the amendment, we have to go back to the text of the law. So, we're done with the replica piece, the circle is closed. It's for everyone who signed up for the replica. I'm sorry, it's been a while, at least some amendment has passed. The Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted an amendment to Article 15. I ask the ministers to declare this amendment. The Financial Committee has proposed an amendment. Please, please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25703	I signed up, thank you. The amendment is accepted, just so everyone knows how to read. After the 6th position, Article 15 is added to the 7th position, in the event of the termination of the contract before the final accounting of the position of the 6th member for the reason provided for by the contract between the investor and the City of Belgrade, the final account shall be made on the day of the termination of the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25704	Amendment accepted. For the record, I need to get on the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25705	All I have to do is repeat that by adopting this amendment, there's no need to remove the main objection to the Anti-Corruption Agency. In article 15, the minister asked a question here, after finally the government decided not to defend itself by just silence. Any member of the Agency can say anything. So, the Agency exists, among other things, to assess the risk of corruption in the provisions of the bill and they did so in accordance with the law, in accordance with their obligations. As you speak of the successful fight against corruption and the support of independent authorities, if you speak so persuasively of what is the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25706	When, MP, direct me, when the minister was now pleading on the amendment, he spoke about it, when?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25707	He spoke earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25708	We are making an amendment to Article 15.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25709	I'm talking about article 15.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25710	Don't talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25711	I was talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25712	I'll read the amendment for the viewers there are in the proms. Don't talk. You may be angry, but you don't have time to spend it on other things. The 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The word is from Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25713	Article 16 is from that sort that's been muttering something in this whole thing. It says – after the completion of the expropriation and registration process of property rights over real estate, the Republic of Serbia, etc., can be put into a long-term lease, it does not have to be partnered with that large investor who brings 3.5 billion with the same guarantees, like those four I offered an hour ago, but it can be given in some kind of long-term lease. A whole new moment. As far as I'm concerned, you know exactly who's building, when he's building, how tall he looks, what he's built in his life, what great thoughts he's said, how many apartments, how many towers there will be, how much there will be, and now it's being leased to someone, that is, it's creating such a possibility, and then it says in the last position -- the costs of the city of Belgrade to determine, at the location, covered by the plan document of Article 2 of this law, will be regulated by a special contract between the City of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia. On what terms? About what, what part of the project? When it ends, what are the prices, which are regulations, who performs the art, an entirely open thing where everything is given to those who want to make this famous "Belgrade on Water". To finish from a moment ago in October and four years ago, every government is in October. Who recognizes himself in a Chettinian, winter green [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25714	What happened now? I have no idea. Okay, you've spent two minutes and thank you. The word is Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25715	I will be a very short, respected minister, as my colleague Branka Bosnjak said, this is the most important and important member of the law, and that is why I needed to report and say something about it. This is the finale of this law, this member is about to edit the process of building up to the ultimate goal and he is talking about how this is a very serious intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and our partners to fully and fully implement this project. My esteemed colleague Zoran Babic spoke a few minutes ago about winning. We will win because our logic and our philosophy, that the opening of new jobs is what is most important for our Serbia, that the greatest patriot is the one who opens jobs and that this will not be the victory of the ruling coalition or anyone as a political party, this will be the victory of Serbia as a whole. This project will be what will give Serbia that motive and that impulse to move on...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25716	The word is Vladimir Pavicevic. The applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25717	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected guests from the Serbian government, ministers and co-workers at the finance ministry, every government in Serbia, respected gentlemen, can be recorded and recorded in Belgrade's urban structure with its symbol. So, every government has such an opportunity, and for me today's debate was, right to tell you one reason to ask myself a little bit, what kind of symbol is being entered into the history of this government in Serbia. This government, gentlemen, by this bill, is pushing for the "Belgrade on Water", as it is, is breaking up with the tradition of urban development of Belgrade for two centuries, respected gentlemen. The principles on which Belgrade's urban development was founded for two centuries are collapsing. It is a symbol that binds this Serbian government to itself. The Serbian government, in terms of Belgrade's urban structure, also attaches an anti-modernisation approach, an anti-modernization direction, where people's MPs in our National Assembly in the 21st century, respected gentlemen, a residential building with no idea how many floors it represents as a top modernising venture, respected gentlemen, and shopping mall, as something that is unseen in the city of Belgrade and then called modernisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25718	I can't recognize the amendment. Will you distract me exactly where it is?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25719	That's right, it's an amendment to Article 16. I am then offering an additional explanation, respected presidents, which now concerns the destruction of the rule of law, the opposite of public interest, it is a symbol that binds this government to itself, unfortunately, respected gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25720	Thank you. Balša Bozovic, applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25721	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, Article 16, says that after the completion of the expropriation process and the registration of property rights on the property of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the planning of construction and construction land, they can lease long-term land for urban purposes. Here, in one sentence, what SANU thinks of this incarceration is intended, according to article 16 of this law. This purpose is completely contrary to the interests of the city and the wider community. It is confronted with the basic functional environment and cultural historical aspects of the arrangement of this space. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 16. SANU is making fun of it to the extent that perhaps the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether present ministers, whether the parliamentary majority here thinks they know and can explain better than SANU. Mr. Babic says -Yes; but I don't believe it's true and I don't believe Mr. Babic knows more than domestic and foreign professionals. I do not believe that despite this passion to know everything, and to wonder about everything, they know more than those who have made these comments, the impressions of architecture, art, painting, the biggest writers in the city of Belgrade and Serbia. Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25722	Time only has Alexander Jovici available. There was no basis. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: He mentioned me by name three times. But I just mentioned it. He said I don't know that... All right. Here's your line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25723	I admit that I don't know when I'm 44 years old, which I hope to fill in just a week, I know that I have much more to learn, but I'm willing to put my academic calling that I won at Belgrade University, at the engineering college, on comparison with you, Mr. Bozovic. I'm prepared to put my engineering college, which I finished about six months before the deadline, in line with you and your legal skills and the length of my studies and the application of that knowledge, I'm ready to compare. Do I know more than the Academy of Science? With respect, I'm passing by the building of the Academy of Science and Arts, not comparing myself. It takes decades and decades to get into that building and to be a member, and with what right you're waving some papers, and you didn't wave with those papers of the same academy of science that she said about the senselessness of the bridge on Ada. It didn't matter to you at the time, when you disrespected her, when they said that that bridge led straight to the hill and without a tunnel below Topcider Hill, that that bridge meant nothing and that it served as a hanger for the birds that would land on it. Turn your head and then turn your head from the Academy of Sciences and then turn your head from the public. Is this later knowledge or do you admit that my colleague, by the expertise of his colleague, Mr. Gilas, did not accept it, and now Pajtic accepts it, did not accept others?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25724	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Respect the time of the line. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25725	First of all, we here as ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are trying to be part of that procedure that the president advocates and to comment on what the content of the amendments is and in rare cases we report that we comment on those issues that we have resolved, I believe, in that first part of the debate that was two days ago. But at this very moment, I really need to look back at this enormous, incomprehensible energy from individual DS colleagues, who are trying to derail this law and this project, which is even more devastating to me. I must repeat again because of you and the public, the "Belgrade on Water" project or Belgrade's descent into the Sava amphitheater, it is a decades-old dream, but the first meeting on the topic of the project "Belgrade on Water", was held on 15 August 2013. The meeting was held by Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas, with then's first Deputy Prime Minister, the current prime minister, Mr. Vukic. I must say that I learned about this meeting as the then president of the City Assembly and your coalition partner in Belgrade from the media, because the DS wanted this project to be for itself, with the hope that it would be realized and that it would be possible for the DS project to enter power in 2013 and for me it is completely unthinkable that today 2015 you have a completely different story. What's this about? Is the same project...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25726	Thank you, Minister. You've entered the line, and so have you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25727	I'm finishing my sentence. Could one project be good when you're in power and bad when you're an opposition, I don't accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25728	Thank you, Minister, indeed. Don't yell. I apologize to the employees of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia who have a holiday tomorrow and who would really love it if in these late hours they were in parliament and they would certainly stay a few hours after us, at least to deal with a concrete bill. I apologize to them as President of Parliament. The word is Milutin Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25729	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gojkovic. Dear Ministers and other members of the government, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry that at the moment when one of the MPs, otherwise my favorite, Mr. Marco, cut me off, I just wanted to eat something and it's not good for me, my sugar jumps because I'm a bit more serious than a man, so I didn't respond immediately because I can't manage in those replicas myself. That seems kind of cute, but now it's not. I said that two days ago when you were talking at the plenary session about the essence of the law. This is a project that can't be debated this much and this much conflict. The project should not be so much used for the purpose of political or political bickering of any party. My duty has been to me, as one of the oldest members here and as a man who's been in this business for 40 years, yet to reconcile all these forces. I remind you, when it comes to Article 16, let me say one sentence because time is running out, about land, the wider interest of that space is the desire and need of the city to remove the oldest point in Europe in Corridor 10 from the agenda. It's a knot. The knot conditioned that interest be general. Let's get this straight. That's what no one's ever said, among other things, of course. And what's going to be built here, that's another topic. This law is only one stage. As for the parties' relationship with these projects, I remind you of 1996, when this process was also launched in another direction. This job was done by a group of young enthusiasts, promoters, headed by Srdjan Shaper, also a wonderful boy, a democratic orthodox, and I never mind that, as I do today. So this is a good project. I also thank Mr. Bozovic and Mark and Mr. Babic when you call me, but call me in the context that you must all work together on it. So what Mr. Vukic offered his hand should be accepted. All experts will be involved. I'm convinced, and the ones you mention here today, that these same people are ready to go into the realization of this project tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25730	There's no basis for replicating anyone. Thank you. National MP Katarina Rakic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have adopted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. You don't have another second of time, the ones that signed up. I'm sorry. We'll wait until next session on Wednesday, so you'll have time. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dr Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karic. The word is Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25731	Thank you. President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, tonight we've heard a lot about projects from the past, projects from the future, but I think the general public, if she listened, couldn't get the impression that in every project that this country was doing, whoever was in power, there was corruption, crime, and always a new or old government puts a speck of doubt on what was done. Even when we admit that the projects were good, they leave a speck of doubt that it was done in some bad or corrupt way. In that very sense, we have proposed an amendment which I think is extremely important, because when we talk here against corruption, one segment is, of course, the work of police and investigative authorities and someone's criminal responsibility. But it's only part of finding fault, fighting corruption. I think it's a far more important part of transparency itself. I think that this amendment really needs to be accepted, because it only speaks of all contracts that will be concluded in connection with "Beograda on Water" being made publicly available at the presentation of the city of Belgrade and other competent authorities, very briefly, i.e. immediately after the signing of those contracts. This will prevent you as a government and as a government all speculations in which contracts are concluded, as far as their obligations are concerned, whether communals have been paid, whether fees have been paid. That's what we've been talking about all night. I'm asking you to think very carefully. Because political responsibility for any failure in the realisation of this job, for any concealment of the facts of the contract, you will bear. And this will make it more clear, both to us as an opposition and to the citizens of Serbia, in what way and why these contracts are concluded. I don't think anyone should be against transparency today, and I urge you to adopt the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25732	You could've at least said something about a website.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25733	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25734	Only to adopt the amendment and nothing else has been said. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together have submitted an amendment proposing that a new article be added after Article 16. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25735	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, although we have said in principle that this law does not really have any meaning for the citizens of Vojvodina and that it is something that is a matter of the local self-government of the city of Belgrade, we have suggested that, after Article 16, Article 17, whose role would actually be to monitor the realisation of this project. This is where we proposed that a commission of 17 members be formed from the ranks of Members of the People's Parliament and five members from the ranks of experts. MPs' groups propose candidates for members of the commission, a proportion of MPs from the total number of MPs in the National Assembly, with each of the parliamentary groups having at least one member of this commission. Members of the Committee of Experts shall be elected on a proposal from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Commission's education decision will identify its task and composition closer. The Commission shall have the right to request from the national authorities and organisations data, documents and notifications, as well as to take statements from the individuals it needs. Representatives of state authorities and organisations are required to respond to the Commission's call, etc. This amendment has been rejected because it is said that a task force will be formed to control the work of the implementation of this project on behalf of the National Assembly. I must finally add that today I felt like a participant in some reality, where we have listened to the conflicts and crackdowns of our colleagues living in Belgrade, and we who live in other parts of Serbia and who have other problems, such as high levels of groundwater, floods, dives, slides, simply listen to a story that doesn't touch us, because we think we have much bigger and much more important problems. I just want to say hello to my colleagues from the Belgrade City Assembly, because these days we've been doing their job today, so to speak, we've just been rolling around on these break benches, because we've been doing something that wasn't our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25736	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blaže Bradić and Ivan Karic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new article 16a be added after Article 16. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25737	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, there's only one left. One, but worth it. I can't understand, after all the calls, two days ago, which the prime minister sent here to join the project, to participate, to control those same calls that were made today by counterpart Babic, colleague Jovicic and others here, too, telling us why this amendment was not accepted or this previous one, which colleague Lazic explained, or this one of ours? I'll read what he says. We predicted the addition of a new member of the 16th. "The government is obliged to provide the National Assembly with a detailed project implementation plan specifically showing the project's financial plan. In addition to the plan set out in Article 1, evidence of the means of expropriation provided by the beneficiaries of the expropriation and evidence provided by investors for the implementation of the project shall be submitted as part of its component. In order to monitor the implementation of the project, the Government will, after the entry into force of this law, educate a working body consisting of the presidents of the National Assembly's committees, the finance, construction and spatial planning ministries, as well as representatives of the Association of Architects, universities, scientific institutions and the Engineering Chamber of Serbia. The government is obliged to submit six months of project implementation reports to the National Assembly. “ Here is the way we want to participate in this project. The whole time you've been calling us Mr. Vukic two days ago, Mr. Babic today several times, Mr. Jovičić, and I don't know who else doesn't. You say – here you are in the projects, here's a way, through the institutions of the system. Your answer is – the Supervisory Board will be formed and it will control the implementation of the project, and the government will report through the annual reports, once the final account is adopted, on how much budget funds have gone. You talk to us all the time, come on, we talk – we will through institutions, not party ones. You said, Mr. Wolfe more than once, you Mr. Jovicic more than once, Mr. Babic, too. I don't know if my colleague Martinovic can't remember it took long. I'm sorry if it wasn't you. So, you're all, here, I don't know, did you say anything to Mr. Marinkovic? You didn't say that, okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25738	You must not speak directly to the MP, but you have broken the Rules of Procedure and you have addressed twenty MPs in person.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25739	I'm sorry. Here, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic himself said that he said that. And then you will not accept this amendment, which provides for a working body involving representatives of the Assembly of All MPs here, professional people and thus ensuring transparency, thus ensuring that everyone sees this project develop and how much it costs the citizens of Serbia. So I can't understand after all these discussions why this amendment hasn't been accepted. If you want us to participate, if you have invited us, vote in favour of this amendment because you will make it possible for all MPs, and since we are MPs to be sent here by citizens and all citizens, to have insight into how this project is developing, what are the costs of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and what is ultimately the benefits. I call on you ministers to say something at last, to say why this amendment has been rejected and how you think this control is being achieved where we should participate, and we, if it will only be implemented through the Supervisory Board in which the Republic of Serbia as a minority partner when a public undertaking is formed for the implementation of this project, or a company for the implementation of this project, the Republic of Serbia, you yourself said it here and the Prime Minister and you, that it will have a share of ownership of 30, 31 and 32%. So, there's gonna be less presidents on that Supervisory Board. What do you mean, what does that call mean, besides that he repeats himself here 20 times and stays just to go into the wind like that? We've given a particular model that we can engage in this project, and you're rejecting it. You reject it, and you invite us to participate in it. I'm asking you to change your mind. As Prime Minister, you can say that you accept this amendment or possibly the previous amendment if you prefer a colleague named Lazic, but he is on the same tone with the same idea that the Assembly is involved in the implementation of this project by forming either a working body or a special assembly body.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25740	You've wasted your time. Thank you, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25741	I am pleased to find the transition to constructive proposals in your discussion, and I am grateful for that. The current amendment, since time has moved away, I will technically agree, the existing amendment comes out of the framework of this law since it provides for this body to deal with evidence issues provided by investors for the implementation of the project. It is not subject to this law and therefore cannot be prescribed by this law. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Yes, the amendment you adopted on Article 7.)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25742	I thank the Ministers, but we cannot communicate with the MPs like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25743	I'm sorry. Funding security funds...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25744	We've been having a debate all day, but informally not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25745	... investor for the implementation of the project comes out of the framework of this law. Therefore, we cannot prescribe this law body to control something that is not within the scope of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25746	Thank you. National MPs Vladimir Pavicevic, Zoran Zivkovic, together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić submitted the 17th amendment. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, this is the last amendment that I have submitted to the last member of this bill, in one order to try to convince the MPs here that this bill should be annulled and not adopted by respected gentlemen. There was no doubt for me, ladies and gentlemen, that the opposition and today's session of the National Assembly would have the power of argument on their side. And two days ago in a principle debate here in our National Assembly when the government was in the strongest form, when the Prime Minister personally defended this bill, the opposition respected gentlemen was superior when the arguments were measured. That's why I don't think Mrs Gojkovic needs much to worry about, neither Mr Babic, Mr Martinović, nor Mr Arsic, nor Mr Jovičić, but neither Mrs Vukomanović nor Mr Vujovic that you failed today in a good way to justify your position on this bill. When that didn't go hand in hand to the Prime Minister, the first man of this government two days ago, why would anyone expect you to succeed today. Therefore, the opposition is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25748	This law will take effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger", you say – it is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25749	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25750	I don't know how you got back on the switches.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25751	This is the summation of our debate. The last amendment and I...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25752	It's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25753	My last. You've cut your time again, and how am I supposed to round up my speech now, Madam President?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25754	Thank you very much. We really had an exhaustive discussion today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25755	Let me thank you, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25756	Thank you. Let's see who's got the time. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25757	Article 17 of the Final Act, which is a proof of multi-annual haughtiness. Serbia's constitution states that the laws enter into force on the eighth day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger", but on purpose to show this empty power, this estranged none, the opera power insists that the next day of publication or the day of publication, on the next day. If we look at Article 5, which says that the deadline for the application for expropriation that this law deals with for five years, I would like Minister Vujovic to explain why this haste to begin to apply the day after publication, when there is a period of five years, when there is no plan, no project, no knowledge of what is being built, where it is being built, who is being built, from which relations are being built, how and what is being paid. It's a completely pointless thing. I have two proposals, one is to adopt this amendment and delete this member as well as everyone before that. The second is that after the amendment debate, you do not now schedule the next few days of voting day because we are on the verge of a holiday. Seven days ago, we haven't fully worked because of the Big Friday holiday on the Gregorian calendar, there's no reason to work on the Big Friday on a calendar that respects most of the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25758	Thank you. We've come out of the framework of the amendment. These are just suggestions, after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25759	Can you give me a few more seconds?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25760	They can't give me suggestions. We started working day, and what you're picking up and you want...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25761	It means that some heavy trouble makes you... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25762	The fact that you're answering and you want us to cross the Big Friday wasn't the wish of all MPs today. We started Thursday morning. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25763	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, honored guests, if someone born in Belgrade, I am deeply against changing the identity of the capital, against changing everything that today represents a symbol of Belgrade. No soliter, no hotel can replace the fortress, no winner, no tower of Nebojsa, no Savamal, no Terrace, no building of the House of the National Assembly. Someone who said we needed Abu Dhabi in downtown Belgrade, he doesn't know and doesn't know what Belgrade is. I am sure that the Belgraders will preserve their cheeks and that they will stand unitedly and solidly against this project. In the end, Belgrade is sacred and this project will not be revived... . (The emissary shows transparency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25764	Would you like to be nice to the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25765	... He's deeply wrong and I think this thing is something he won't go through...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25766	So, I'll rule you out with full law. To fulfill what MP Zivkovic is asking of me, I will rule you out, because you do not want to talk about the amendment. Ambassador Alexander Jovicic, you asked to discuss this amendment. I ask MPs for order in the O.R., to allow Ambassador Alexander Jovicic to report and use his remaining time to discuss the amendment. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. The apostle is already standing, you are too late. When I gave my word to the Messenger Jovicic, you asked him to sit down and you to stand up. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25767	Thank you, Your Honor. I would ask all MPs to listen to each other for the last ten minutes, how many debates, perhaps less. We've seen some transparency here, and I really don't have anything to say. Besides everything we've heard today, we didn't expect anything else. Yes, you're right, it won't pass, if you wonder that Serbia is developing and that Belgrade is developing. But unfortunately for you, and fortunately for the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia, you do not wonder. Thank you for that. For the sake of the public and the citizens, I need to answer a few questions that you asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25768	Ambassador, please, about the amendment. I was very hard on Balsha Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25769	Yeah, yeah, about the amendment. Respect for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25770	But about the amendment, really. You can pick up the second one, the last one, but please don't have a double arsenic. I pray for understanding and the heads of Parliament's groups, when they ask that others behave in a certain way, to seek and not to resent when I am equal to others. Please pick up and use your time then according to the last amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25771	But you used more than I did.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25772	I always do that to other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25773	You'll give me 15 seconds more, I hope. If I can just finish it. All the amendments that have been submitted have been referred, especially this last one, to a few things. There are some answers that parliamentarians and citizens must know. I'll, uh, in short, and I won't insult anyone. Citizens will not repay any credit for this investment, because this is an investment, not a borrowing. Also, land is paid, the investor pays 240m euros in land through infrastructure. So hospitals, schools, all institutions involved in social protection. So it's paid, it's not free. They say – we preserve tradition, Nebojsa Tower, Calemegdan. We don't touch Calemegday, we don't take down the winner, the Tower of Nebojsa stays. I just want one sentence to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Do not be afraid, Alexander Vukic thinks of you, unlike those who are not. Aleksandar Vukic wants Belgrade developed, Serbia's developed, strong economy, to reduce unemployment and finally end up with a practice of destroying Serbia's economy, robbing citizens, throwing people out on the streets and leaving them out of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25774	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25775	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we're...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25776	I ask you to let the Messenger speak, he has the right, like all the other messengers, to answer the word and speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25777	We were very patient, we attended the entire debate, we looked at the arguments that we could over the past few hours, and in the previous days to hear from the opposition. What I want to say when it comes to the amendment and the amendment that we are currently discussing, but also the amendments that were similar to the content, which we talked about throughout the day, is an absolutely unacceptable amendment for us – it is deleted, because this law is written to be applied, to be respected, to create a quality legal framework and to create conditions for the realization of an extremely important and important project, not only for Belgrade, but for the whole of Serbia. During a recent debate, we could hear that someone was born in Belgrade. I was not born in Belgrade, born from Valjev, but I will certainly, as well as my fellow MPs, support this legal framework, because this legal framework, as I said, should enable the realisation of an investment that needs to be launched throughout Serbia. This is a project of the future. We're talking today about a project that needs to be encouraged and started by a complete Serbian economy, a project whose value is, today we've heard more than once during the debate, 3.5 billion euros, a project that needs to be employed by 13000 workers, a project that needs to encourage the construction industry, and we know what kind of problems the construction industry has been in during the past period, a project that needs to start a complete industrial...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25778	I beg your order in the O.R. Excuse me, MP, I'm trying to create any kind of working atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25779	Thank you. ... Therefore, a project that is to be launched by the entire industrial sector, a project that will make Belgrade a world metropolis that wants to be attractive for both foreign and domestic investors in the coming period, but also a project that will attract a huge number of foreign and domestic tourists in the coming period. It certainly wants to create a new face and Belgrade, as well as a new face for Serbia as a whole. It is for the benefit of citizens, and it is, as defined by this law, in the right sense of the word public interest. I would like to say that during today's debate and debate which was held two days ago in parliament, the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have shown one responsible and serious approach when it comes to the realization of this extremely important and important project, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has very clearly shown that there is absolutely nothing to hide and that it is ready to face opinions, to exchange arguments, to dialogue, but that after today's debate with certainty we can say that the truth, when it comes to a particular project that we are talking about today, in exchange of arguments, is certainly on the side of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have said more than once that Serbia has entered essential and structural reforms and we believe that this is the only way and direction that leads to the recovery of our country's economic system. In a period of economic crisis, of course, saving must and should be a priority, saving, rational consumption, household behavior, but saving alone is not enough. Savings will allow us to inhale, but in order to get Serbia out of the crisis we need just such investment projects. We need capital projects, we need to encourage an entrepreneurial spirit in Serbia, and we need what is clearly defined by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia's exposé, which is to strengthen the private sector. So Serbia is not enough small, partial, small steps, Serbia needs a big step forward. By starting to realize this project, we are making a huge step forward. What I also want to say when it comes to this project, it was said first that this project is not real, that this project is not feasible, that it is a pre-election fairy tale. It was then said that citizens of Belgrade would be expelled from their homes, and citizens lived in unsanitary conditions, in barracks. Today they have normal residential facilities and we don't hear criticism from citizens living in these residential buildings.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25780	Be kind about the amendment and why the law should not enter into force the next day from the day of its publication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25781	I said for a moment, just to achieve the goals we talked about. So we write the law, or we adopt this law to create conditions for the realization of a very important and significant project. Again, a project that is of exceptional importance and importance not only for Belgrade but also for all of Serbia. But let me finish. I mentioned for a moment that someone mentioned that the citizens of Belgrade would be expelled from their apartments, from the city centre. I don't see any criticism from these citizens. After the debate, one question arises – whether the problem is that "Beograda on water" will not be or the problem is that "Beograda on water" wants to be and what it wants to start realising this extremely important project. It is very important for us that there is a Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, one openness and transparency, that there is a responsibility, that there is a desire for talks, for suggestion, for proposals. Of course, there is also a critical reference to the small part of the public that has a critical view. We deeply believe that this small part, including the professional public and the opposition section, will support this legislative proposal after today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25782	Thank you. We have another amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25783	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, please allow me to explain the last amendment today. I'm sorry I'm gonna have to speak out loud since I see the president doesn't want to let me do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25784	You always speak extremely loudly, so I won't stop you from doing that now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25785	We provided that Article 17 whose first position states that the law takes effect on the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" adds the second position that reads – this law begins to apply from the date of adoption of the project's implementation plan under Article 16(1) of this Law. The government has rejected this amendment for reasons why the proposed solution is more celery. The government's favorite word is more cellular and meaningful. Not paying any attention to what we wrote. We have previously proposed a new Article 16a to the National Assembly before this law comes into force and the delivery plan for the realisation of the project is applied, particularly showing the financial plan of the project. You could say we disagree with your idea, we don't need the National Assembly to know anything, not to repeat here for two days – come on, get involved. So I don't think that's right and that you should have rejected this amendment otherwise if you didn't want to accept it. I want to finally apologize to the employees in this assembly for what we're going to do on Big Friday...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25786	I thank you, this is no longer an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25787	It certainly wasn't the MP's fault because we had only an hour, an hour and a half to talk today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-09-0.u25788	We started this morning at 10.00, don't be false, it's 20 minutes till midnight. So it's your business how you imagined this session today and what you were doing. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Honorable Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union I hereby designate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Thursday 9 April 2015 starting at 23:00 and 44 minutes as the day for voting on the second item of the agenda of this session, i.e. on the draft law establishing public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and issue of the building permit for the implementation of the "Belgrade on Water" project. Dear People's MPs, we continue our work by deciding on the 2nd item of the agenda, i.e. the proposed law. Please, let's approach the vote. We need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 177 MPs are present in the hall, and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit in order to implement the project "Belgrade on Water" in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, v – nine abstentions – there is no, no vote – six of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Before we move on to the amendment decision... No, this isn't necessary, I'm sorry. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the bill, amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – three abstentions – there is no, there is no – 174 of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The first amendment was submitted by MPs Vladimir Pavicevic, Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – four abstentions – there is no, no vote – 174 of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 177 of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote – 179 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The second amendment was submitted by MPs Vladimir Pavicevic, Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against – one, abstention – there is no, no vote – 178 of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Dusan Petrovic, Branko Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blažje Bradić, Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against –no one, with abstention – there are no, 177 MPs from the total of 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 2a be added after Article 2. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against –no one, with abstention – there are no, 177 MPs from the total of 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Vladimir Pavićevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – one, abstention – there is no, 175 MPs did not vote among the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Dusan Petrovic, Branko Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blažje Bradić, Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against –no one, with abstention – there is no, 176 MPs did not vote from the 186 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 MPs out of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against –no one, with abstention – there is no, 176 MPs did not vote from the 186 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavićevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Marko Djurisić, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karić and joint MPs Boris Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozović, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Cirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against –no one, with abstention – there is no, 176 MPs did not vote from the 186 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Vladimir Pavićevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Marko Djurisić, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karić and joint MPs Boris Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozović, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Cirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against –no one, with abstention – there is no, 176 MPs did not vote from the 186 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 176 MPs out of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I ask the MPs not to have dinner in the O.R. Ambassador Pavicevic, please, really, don't. We don't bring food into parliament. Don't shout as an excuse – look at this. Don't yell. [[Ivan Karic throws out of place, but the noise in the hall doesn't make you hear anything]] I'm giving you a heads-up about this. (Ivan Karic, from the place: Thank you. I thank you for your good behavior. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against - one, the abstentions – there is no, 174 MPs did not vote from the total 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against –no one, with abstention – there is no, 175 MPs did not vote from the 185 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 MPs out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against –no one, with abstention – there is no, 175 MPs did not vote from the 185 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 176 MPs out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic together submitted the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, v-one, abstentioned - there is no, 174 of the 185 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment On Article 11th of the amendment, in the same text, MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovan Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić were submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did 175 of the 184 MPs present vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did 175 of the 184 MPs present vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment to Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olga Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -15, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 168 of the 184 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment On Article 12 of the amendment, the MP Vladimir Pavićevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, together with the MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karić and together the MPs Boris Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozović, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Šutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 176 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 177 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 14th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 177 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 178 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 178 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 179 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together have submitted an amendment proposing that a new article be added after Article 16. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - one, abstention - there is no, 178 of the 187 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blaža Bradić and Ivan Karić together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new article 16a be added after article 16. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 178 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 177 of the 187 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. While the vote continues, I would like to inform you that I am withdrawing my warning measure to Ambassador Ivan Karic for the Easter holidays. I don't think it's right for us to end the session like that, that was yesterday. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 176 out of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -173, v - nine abstentions - no, two of the 184 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law establishing public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit in order to realise the project of building "Belgrade on water" in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 176, v - nine abstentions - none, one MP of the 186 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, a bill on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of the "Belgrade on Water" project. We're finishing work today. The sequel will be on Wednesday at ten o'clock. I wish you happy Easter holidays to the Members of the Parliament who celebrate the Easter on Sunday. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 94 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 108 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I have been informed that the sessions today will not be attended by the following MPs: Branka Bosnjak, Ljiljana Nestorović, Srdjan Dragojevic, Vanja Vukić, Sinisa Maksimović, Nada Lazić and Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the draft inspection law. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government. You have received a report from the committees responsible, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Blažje Bradić together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Petrovic.
