ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40571	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail of the Mining and Geological Research Bill. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the competent committees, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Under the name of the amendment law in the same text, MP Janko Veselinović, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and MP Balša Bozovic, together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40572	Thank you very much. I'll use seven minutes, if you'll excuse me, President. We have a good law ahead of us, and that's what we said in the principle debate. The amendment to Article 1 is a matter of some language consistency that should respect order, technological order. First it's being explored, then it's digging ore. But we can be well-intentioned, too, so let's say we don't have to insist on it. It's possible that mining is more important than research, and then we can open up a big quasi-philosophy debate, which I don't think is the point in lawmaking. It is certain that the law is good, that the law is the fruit of a serious analysis of this area, that in writing the laws probably all the experts that exist in this country, that the public debate was very broad, that the results of this public debate were incorporated in the bill itself, which made it very good. Of course, immodestly, my colleague Pavicevic and I will say that our amendments he is on the verge of being excellent. In his presentation, a colleague will mark our victory, once again, which is our right to think so. We think it's a victory and a parliamentaryism for a single piece of work. Of course, the victories of the good are never interesting, so colleagues from across the street from the noise, but generally the law, gives a whole new, new, modern, serious basis for this area in Serbia. Whether it will produce results on the ground, whether we will become a rich country through mining, it doesn't depend on the law, it depends on what's underneath us. The law is one part of that whole process, but the question of whether research can find something, and that's what hides part of the globe that we're in charge of. I hope that these research, which has been launched for a very long time, will be intensified by this law and that some of these research will produce positive results, which will certainly be useful for the development of mining, and hence many other branches of the Serbian economy. So we do not insist on this amendment to Article 1. It was adopted, if I understood correctly, some 16 amendments, plus one that would be adopted on the Committee, so 17 out of 25. The government will say what percentages they are and what repercussions they are, but generally, we still cannot be completely satisfied with this law. Why? Because I can say that everywhere where the profession was primary, that the law is very good, very good, great. However, where there are policies, which is part of every law, there is no law that is completely professional, the law is actually one professional articulation of political views around an area. It's a matter of mine rent, and it's a small member of the law that doesn't deal mainly with it, and it's a mining contract primarily for oil and gas exploitation. That's what I was talking about. It is probably the smallest in Serbia, for which there is no valid reason. A particular problem is the NIS sales contract, not only in the part regarding the fact that NIS is practically donated to a partner from abroad, but in the part of the contract to pay a 3 per cent mining rent from the income of the one who draws oil and gas from our potential, and in the law is 7%. That means that this member of the law that defines it with 7% is unnecessary. At this point, we have one oil and gas exploiter in Serbia and he has a special contract like some Lex specialis, with his level of the mining rent even lower than it says in the law, not even 7%, but 3%. I have already spoken in the principle debate about how it is very good that we have a big partner exploiting oil and gas, but it is not good that our position, the position of Serbia in this area, is reduced to the level of some citizen present, without any intervention in what the dynamics and exploitation will be and what will be the benefit for the country, for the province of Vojvodina, for local self-government from exploitation. So, it is necessary to renegotiate, to change that NIS sales contract not a few parties, to determine first whether the sale price is as it is determined, whether something more can be done there, but also in the part that can be exploited annually by which plans and this part of the law I'm talking about, which is a matter of mining rent. Why should a new NIS contract be renegotiated? Because the purchase of NIS, the sale of NIS, is part of an oil-gas arrangement that is not fulfilled in its most important part, and the most important part is the construction of South Stream. Justification of why we sell NIS at four times the real price, why we give such a low level of mining rent was that we're going to be part of the South Stream and with that investment, with this infrastructure we're going to be able to make up for the fact that we're losing so cheaply by selling NIS. There were also stories that the sale of NIS will save Kosovo at a cost, but not to enter that part. It's beyond this subject, but I'm just mentioning it as another not-so-serious thing that was said at the time. I'm talking about 2007, 2008. The situation has changed, there's no South Stream, and that's why we're going to renegotiate the entire oil-gas arrangement, and that's why we're going to have to renegotiate the entire oil-gas deal, and that's why we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40573	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40574	One more sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40575	You've already passed. You want all seven?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40576	It's seven already.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40577	And that's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40578	One more sentence, but it's all over now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40579	Thank you. He has the words of the applicant for the amendment, MP Janko Veselinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40580	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, the Turnover Movement has submitted amendments to this Mining and Geological Research Act and to the title of this law. So, Minister, you might be asking a question, and that's a question that's almost as old as civilization, is it older coke or egg? We haven't received that answer yet. I believe that you and I could discuss it and have arguments both for and against both ideas. This is about the title of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, and my proposal, in the name of the Turnover Movement, is that the title follows the course of things. In the course of things, first research, first geological research, and then mining, i.e. mining ore, was superficial, was in the womb of the earth, so to speak. In that sense, there is no dilemma. So, the dilemma of coke or egg or research and mining for us doesn't exist. You may have had some other criteria when giving the name to this law. However, when we talk about the name of this law, we can talk about this area in general, the normative state and the state of practice, and often the normative frameworks do not match what is in reality. So when we talk about mining law and geological research, we can also talk about whether these geological research and mining of ore are done in a way that benefits those who work in these mines, as well as people who live around these mines. So the question of environmental protection is very, very important for me and for the Turnover Movement. When this law arrived in the process, I went to Bor to talk to them about living next to the mine, beside the melting room, and what a combination of the fact that it is necessary to process ore and the need to live alongside these mines and these melting plants. You know what people say? There live and work some people in the factory and some people don't work there and there's kind of a discrepancy between what it brings and what nature has brought to that end and how people live there in an environment that's polluted. They also have trouble with heavy metals. They're having problems, they say, and with a large wasteland stored for years, say, in the village of Ostrev and Krimelj, and that's what we need to talk about, and that's what worries those citizens. They care about their health, their children's health, the health of their descendants, and certainly that this law must be in line with laws relating to the protection of the environment and that provide a healthy environment. Let's say, Mr. Minister, in Boro of four air pollution measurement devices, three of them don't work, and one of the devices that reads are unknown to the public, they're not familiar to the citizens of Bora. On the other hand, land in the area of Bora is polluted with heavy metals, and these gaps that are in these villages, especially when the wind, threaten the living world in the environment. And in that sense, Minister, it's not research and mining just digging up ore and processing that ore. It's a relationship to the environment. It's a relationship to people living in these parts. I don't think this government has any sense of it. On the other hand, people say they're afraid to come out and show their attitude, because there's some local powers threatening them, scaring them, fearing for their safety, and whether in the 21st century we have a situation where you can't say that you're breathing air with heavy metals, in which other parameters are above allowed. So, mining ore, mining, recirculating that environment must be one whole. The state in that part must have a strategy. I can't stay a wasteland for generations to come, because in those environments, when the ore disappears, people won't be able to live. In that sense, Minister, I believe that with your colleague, the Minister of Agriculture and Ecology, who is not at all an environmentalist, you should sit down and go to Bor and talk to the citizens of Bor and talk to other citizens in Serbia where geological research is and where there are excavations, mines and where there is processing of these raw materials. There people have difficulty living, and instead of being happy because God, as we say, has given them wealth, they fear for their health. There are a number of respiratory disorders, mortality increased, etc. Instead of the luck he was supposed to bring that fortune, they have a problem. In that sense, Minister, sit down with the Minister of Agriculture and Ecology and discuss the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40581	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40582	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't want to unnecessarily deem myself to be with the Members of the People. I'm just going to try short interventions to react to what I think is crucial. In the course of the debate in principle, as regards the name of the law, I made the view of the Ministry that the law should be called the Mining and Geological Research Act, starting with that, as such, the Mining Act is recognised in all legislative frameworks. In the surrounding countries, this is the most common Mining Act and there is no mention of geological research. Simply, we are the Ministry of Energy and Mining, and geological research is in a broader context part of the process leading to mining work in Serbia. That's our attitude. If we disagree and it's a key thing that we don't agree on, I don't think it's that bad. I have to respond to Bor, and from the point of view of your observation that the government is doing nothing to improve this situation, and to come up with just a few data. First, this law pays special attention and ultimately strengthens the issue of recreation, the problem of solving historic gaps that are the mining process in some mines that have already been closed. It's on one side. On the other hand, when it comes to Bor, we have just invested a huge amount of energy in order to end Topionica and the sulphuric acid factory, in order to reduce the emissions of all these elements that are bad for the lives and health of people on the one hand, and on the other hand, this ministry realizes the project of regional development of Bora, i.e. the resolution of that Criminal Collector that should prevent potential ecological disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40583	Thank you. The word is submitted to the amendment by Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and the chairman of today's session, Mr. Bečić, the Honorable Minister Antić, the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I would like to announce in particular to my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament that this information has been provided by our guests from the Ministry that we are the People's MPs of the New Party on the proposal of the Law on Mining and Geological Research have submitted 25 amendments. Of this total number of 25 amendments, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Republic of 16 amendments were accepted, and it announced that another amendment would be accepted. Whenever at least one person is accepted, one letter, one sign of interpretation, and especially when we have content amendments, it is for one MP who is dedicated to his legislative work in the legislative body, a reason for great satisfaction and joy, gentlemen. I am informing Mr Antic, but also my colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly that we have respected gentlemen for these years and eight months, we National MPs of the New Party have submitted 1,659 amendments in total. Out of the 1,659 amendments submitted, a total of 1,49 amendments have been accepted for this year and eight months. When it is transferred to the percentages of ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected guests and guests from the ministry are 8.98%. We here practice the application of an analogy of Minister Antic, which implies that we transfer these percentages to support the electoral body. This means that the New Party has had enough years and eight months of respect for gentlemen, to get support in the election body of 8.98%. Bravo. Of course it also deserves applause and support, because it is the result of the ladies and gentlemen of great and dedicated work, above all of us MPs of the New Party in the National Assembly. I would like to inform the Members of the People's Parliament that our amendments have been accepted to the following members of the Bill's proposal, to Section 3, Section 3, to Article 29, 37, 44, 47, 64, 158, 163, 168. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs have accepted two of our amendments to Article 180 and two of our amendments to 181, then amendments to Articles 182 and 187. I think, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests from the ministry, that we can also call this result a small victory not only by the New Party but also by opposition in our National Assembly, but also by the victory of parliamentaryism in our country, which you have contributed to this kind of action by Mr Antic yourself. When we declare the victory of parliamentaryism, it is for every person who is directed towards democratic values, principles and principles, too, a reason for the joy and satisfaction of ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. I don't think it will be immodest to say that with this result, our New Party has become the champion and hope of Serbian parliamentaryism in the past year and eight months. Of course this is, I think one opportunity to point to certain and very positive aspects of this bill, that this is a very good legislative project, given the length and scope of the public debate, for example. This was not a common case with other legislative projects. Then, given the ministry's interest in this debate, given the width of the stakeholders' participation, and finally the number of amendments accepted that I think were of a very high quality, I think it's time to say here that this law should be interpreted in the context of all these positive aspects of its content. The order is I think the opposition says that when it's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40585	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40586	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected, therefore, an amendment to the name of this law, the Law on Mining and Geological Research. He would characterise him as lightly as I could and as unnecessary. Absolutely unnecessary amendment. The promoter of this amendment, there are several of them, but I would refer to the amendment promoter who otherwise loves to be falsely represented and to be signed as the leader of some movement, continues with practice, I would say of these as fellow Pavicevic said just a year and eight months ago of proposing absolutely unnecessary amendments. It is already clear to everyone here that it is a mere desire to reach some minutes, free minutes of media space, in every way possible, so that in that way, who knows which way to try to criticise the current government, of course without any argument. We can be as tolerated as we are. And you, sir, are the chairman of the maximum tolerance for him, but the problem is when you're not telling the truth. That's the only problem. It's something we can't get past, so he sees things. He sees some dissensions alluding to the situation of the SNS parliamentary group, out of 136 MPs, an MP leaves, and to him it is a dismemberment. I understand why he sees dissension, because whatever he's doing in that movement, he can't get away with it. How could he come when one man makes him? It's impossible to break up, so he sees a dispersion on the other side. When it comes to the amendment itself, then I will underline a completely unnecessary amendment. So it's proposed to replace words in a sentence, not the Mining and Geological Research Act, but the Geological Research and Mining Act. In explaining his amendment, he did not say a single word why we would accept this amendment. From what I've stated, I really think we should reject this amendment and for another principle, which is to send a message about how we treat ourselves and how we treat really irresponsible and completely unnecessary amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40587	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will first invite the Ministry responsible for the affairs of the state administration to review and sanction the work of unregistered political organisations no matter what their names are. I understand that fellow MPs who in three parties were unable to find themselves in a year's time, but in the light of the amendments when they state the names of some unregistered political parties, this is the reason that the executive authority, or the Ministry of State Administration, reacts and checks the work of unregistered political organisations in the same way that it did with that unregistered political organisation in Serbia called "Jobik". Therefore, whether the turnover for "Jobik" or the turnover for movement or Kaligulin turnover is mostly someone has to react and check the work of unregistered political organisations, as political parties have certain obligations to the Anti-Corruption Agency and other bodies, and these unregistered political parties do not have or have a obligation to report on the contributions that political parties receive. There are several reasons to check this unregistered political party that has been running through parliament for days. It is not about the electoral list formed by a group of citizens, it is simply about the Association of Citizens formed by three people, it is not a political party and cannot be a proposal for an amendment team before the amendment's proposings can be MPs, the government, a number of voters. Thus, Mr. President, in the future, when a person lists the name of an association, it may in future indicate that "A woman is black", it can indicate that she is "the Red Cross", etc. These are not political organisations, nor can they, in the sense of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, be proposing amendments. A doctor of law doesn't know that, but one farmer is obliged to inform him, here's a path that I don't know which way, that he has to correct it and simply says that he, as a MP for the amendment, has a sovereign right to do so, but the Movement for a Turnover doesn't have that right, even if he is a political party, and he isn't. As far as the amendments are concerned, I don't mind being accepted. But in the light of the amendments, everything was here, so it started with a percentage. I agree that there is a certain percentage of the acceptance of amendments, that there are political parties to the score, the commas, the challengers, the questionnaires and the quotes, and I am glad that they lexically dress up those members of the law, but that some percentage is carried out, and that comparison with the percentage of support, etc., I hope that this party for the score, you will decide to go to the elections alone and confirm what its representatives here insist. As for the second part of the interpretation of the amendment, I insist that the representatives of the former regime will not forgive us for their mistakes either. These days, signatures are being collected for the collapse of the SAA they signed, found together with 27 EU members. Today they collect signatures, these days to tear down the SAA, and under the Constitution, Article 107 and Article 108 cannot hold a referendum on international agreements. So they're no longer for what they are, they had two brains. One thought was when they were in power, and the other was quite different since they were in opposition. When they were in power, public affairs were used for their private businesses, paid money, and made various contracts, including the one for vineyards. So, they've been spending money on public affairs making private businesses, and now that they're the opposition, they're against those agreements they signed. The contract mentioned here is NIS and the agreement. We didn't sign it, it was signed by a party of the former regime whose list was chosen by the one who's now objecting to us. So, he says that the agreement is harmful, so I ask him - why did he enter this parliament on the list of those who signed such an agreement? So if he claims that the contract and the deal were harmful, then he was on the vermin list. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40589	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40590	Thank you. I use the time of authorised representatives of the DS parliamentary group and the argument clearly when it comes to an amendment that changes the order. So, I will talk about the political association of the Turnover Movement, the division of the SNS parliamentary group, the Jobbik association and the SSP with a view to a discussion that is in line with the Rules of Procedure and Article 106 that the agenda is talked about since this is an obvious agenda. For qualifications of people used as disqualifications, ad personam arguments whether members of the Turnover Movement or taking part in the separation of the SNS parliamentary group, it is very difficult to connect with the content of the amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40591	Mrs. Comic, I didn't expect you to talk about the amendment. Do you think you've got a replica or... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40592	... I was told to speak in detail as well as colleagues who had just discussed the same subject in particular. So we heard how the change of words connects – mining and geological research with the political association of the Turnover Movement and Jobbik with the SNS separation with the signing of the SAA and with NIS. That's the darkness. You thought that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40593	Mrs. Komic, some movement has been mentioned, but not the Turnover Movement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40594	... Okay, I'll talk about the movement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40595	Mrs. Comic, please, you're the vice president of parliament. I ask you to take care of Parliament's dignity, at least you, if not some other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40596	... I did. So, since it is concluded that speakers before me do not care about Parliament's dignity, since I know with how much difficulty...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40597	I told you that, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40598	... Chairman, I will take care of Parliament's dignity. So, the movement, as the Rules of Procedure refers to all the MPs exactly the same, we agree, is that, if we have a debate in which the amendment proposed to be said – mining and geological research are changed in order and it is – geological research and mining, and that non-acceptance or support of that amendment is justified by the views which are disqualification of the members of the Jobica movement or the Movement for Turnover, by contesting the secession in the SNS parliamentary group, by signing a NIS contract or information on the SAA, then I think that's the agenda. I don't mind the topic of dialogue being whatever the chairman considers to be the topic of the agenda. But regardless of the will to choose an argument that will challenge someone's right to submit the amendment, I would like to hear a few arguments from the minister, since he said that the provisions of this law refer to very strictly – the re-cultivation, and there is a rather misunderstanding when this law is. The argument was given by mentioning the situation in Bor and not just here, and that's the topic I was talking about when I talked about law enforcement members including the title. So whether it is – geological research or mining, however, both procedures can leave serious consequences for the environment. So, do you, by this law, whose part should come into force over the years that come forward, calculate that future geological research and future provisions relating to the exploitation fields will produce environmental damage? This remained unclear, and I heard in one reply from the minister that it was not considered to be, but that it was a reflection quite strict for the existing, and that in the future it would work in accordance with both Chapter 15 and Chapter 27. Geological research can damage pretty much the environment. We have serious problems in applying existing legislation when it comes to Chapter 27. We have serious objections that there is no movement in progress, and it would be important for us to hear the minister's assessment. I do not ask the minister to speak about exactly what will happen after the approval of geological research or after the opening of new exploitation fields, but I would be happy to hear from the minister his assessment – whether future exploitation or geological research is done, where we stand at the view that the law should be called – on geological research and mining, will it produce such damages that it will require recultivation? Is the context of the response given to the MP who has submitted the amendment such that the assessment that the damage will also be in the future will also be in the future? Since it is quite clear that all this is related to both the title of the law and the maintenance of order at the assembly session, with the will of the MPs, that because they belong to the ruling coalition they think they can earn, perhaps they can, but it's not nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40599	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40600	Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Mirkovic, Sasa Mirkovic is a corulent man, and I may not have the right because of my physical constitution to say that he may be elegantly filled, but he is definitely a big man. His right and desire to leave the winning team of SNS can be called any other way, but he can never be called dissociative. However, those who have seen some divisions in the Serbian Progressive Party for seven full years and eight years do not see the collapse in the Democratic Party. They do not see a disintegration where some MPs in the front row slowly move to the back row, and these last lines are close to the exit door. They do not see these breakdowns in which the vice-presidents of the Democratic Party feel like a foreign body within the Democratic Party, or on the executive board, or on the Democratic Party's presidency. I, gentlemen, only one thing I'm telling you - leave you to the Serbian Progressive Party. Thanks for asking, we're fine. Thanks for asking, we're working. Thank you for asking, we are conducting a reform policy conducted by Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you are taking care of the collapse. To connect with today's agenda, I can only see that the Democratic Party is increasingly digging and sinking more and more when it counts and when it is seen trust with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40601	Thank you, Mr. Granny. An authorised Democratic Party representative, a two-minute replica, mentioning the DS. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40602	Thank you. The ruling coalition's will to deal with the Democratic Party is understandable, and the will not to apply order at the session is also understandable. If the Democratic Party were in disintegrated and the Serbian Progressive Party was not in serious dissension, there would be no such anxiety here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40603	Mrs. Komic, please, do you have any objection to the session?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40604	I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40605	First you challenge the replica, you speak outside the topic of the agenda, and then again you have an objection to the conduct of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40606	I have no objection to having a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40607	I didn't expect that from you, Mrs. Comic. Maybe from someone else in the opposition, but I'm not from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40608	I can always pleasantly surprise you. I have no objections to having a session, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is a replica to the presentation of the president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40609	Replica, Mrs. Comic, but you just said you have an objection to the conduct of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40610	This is a replica to the president of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Whenever and if necessary, I will report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you have given me the right to reply given the mention of the Democratic Party in the discussion of details and the amendment of the president of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group. So, we're getting nervous. I hope the ruling coalition is okay, because what's going on on TV shows doesn't look good. So someone who in ten days has news of a coup, of powerful enemies destroying the government, is hardly well. If you have the will to say it was all just a joke, then it's just not good. I fully understand the will to silence the opposition, belittle it, it's... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40611	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, it's been two minutes. The word is Mr. Babic, a replica, and that closes the circle of replicas, as Mrs. Komic has caused a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40612	Here, I accept that we are, in the words of a distinguished colleague who has become an expert on psychological conditions and whether someone is nervous or not. I only see here colleagues and colleagues of the Serbian Progressive Party who are very in the mood, I see smiles on their faces, because today we are going to pass another reform law. We're very happy and happy about it. I don't know where someone who's not qualified to assess other people's psychological condition can say something like that and can judge something like that. But even by accepting what the distinguished colleague said, here we are in such a dissociation, but again the Serbian Progressive Party, Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have over 52% of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Well, imagine we're not in the middle of anything yet. Imagine, Mr. Chairman, how much the Serbian Progressive Party would have trusted if it hadn't been up to date. Well, that would be awesome. But here, I accept everything that my colleague said and I will accept something very funny said by a national MP, a distinguished colleague of Risticevic, that the Democratic Party is not at sea, but is sinking more and more every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40613	Thank you, Mr. Granny. If we're going to interpret percentages as some MPs, you have 80 percent. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40614	Respecting the need, which comes first of all from opposition MPs, to bring a little bit of political momentum into this debate on the Mining and Energy Act, which is primarily due to the lack of opportunity to talk about the law because the law obviously has such a line that it is characterized by the vast majority as good, I only have one small correction, primarily to Mr Babic, who said that Mr. Vukic, SNS and the Government have over 50%. If we add SPS to that with our partners, it's over 65%, Mr. Babice. But I didn't answer to make a political point, I'm here as Minister of Mining and Energy and I'm talking about the law. Mrs. Comic, you asked about the recreation. Here, just a few small examples, but it goes through the whole law. Article 78, which states what is necessary for the approval of the exploitation, is below 8) the obligations relating to the recovery of space recycling, the recruitment of persons with appropriate professional equipment and technical management tasks, professional work, safety and health at work, timely reporting of the competent authority and inspection service. In Article 102, it is also very precise and related to the approval for the construction of mining facilities and the implementation of mining works. Under point 5) – Obligations relating to the recovery and recreation of space, the involvement of a person with appropriate professional equipment, etc. Article 72 states that the Ministry, or the competent regional authority, may suspend the authorisation for exploitation or exploitation, which may be the case, in addition to the fact that if exploitation endangers the lives and health of people and so on, under point 7) the process of re-cultivation is not carried out in accordance with the approved project documentation and the annual operational plans. So, we, on an annual level, follow, under the new law, all activities of every mining entity in the re-cultivation of space, including that of the 153th member of the one who is an active businessman...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40615	Time, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40616	I'm sorry, this is capitalizing. ... and in the case of these old cases, if the winding-up or bankruptcy procedure is opened over the exploiter, the winding-up or bankruptcy costs shall be adjusted primarily from the winding-up mass. So we've really raised as much as possible by a legal project like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40617	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40618	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers and Guests, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, reporting by amendment. We have already heard the thanks of colleagues Pavicevic on the number of amendments accepted. We listen to various wrong logical mathematical operations, which Pavicevic identifies with the percentage of support of the electoral body, which is quite wrong. My colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, will later discuss how support is given to SNS under his operations. Listening to fellow Pavicevic countless times, the Honored Chairman, on academic honesty and on the rule of law, we now have an even more recent expression – the victory of parliamentaryism, the latest. He has repeatedly stated that the idea and thought change the world, but this amendment will not change the name of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40619	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic: Replica. Yes, you're right, Mr. Pavicevic, since her colleague Vlahovic mentioned your name several times. You have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, and the chairman of today's session, Mr Becic, the Honorable Minister Antić, the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry. I appreciate when Mrs. Vlahovic calls to comment on our amendments and listen with special attention to the argument. Here it was necessary for me to report on the basis of the right to the replica, since Mrs Vlahovic challenged me with one right to deal with the percentages of the amendments accepted by us, the MPs of the New Party. Now I just want to remind you of something I said earlier. I said we submitted 25 amendments to this bill, that 16 amendments were accepted, which is 8.98%. After I said that on the basis of that percentage, we became champions of Serbian parliamentarianism, Mr Becic, here I heard a round of applause, a support for that kind of attitude, with one note and a grudge from one MP, that if the situation is such, then we ourselves do not go to elections and win that percentage. Dear gentlemen, I have announced by certain analogies that we now have a firm standoff in the election body of 8.98%, and that in association with the parties with which we share values, principles, principles, Mr. Becic, we may even triple that support in the electoral body. Of course, it is our idea to deal with the shift of a bad government, so that, when we come to power, we work much better, more persistent, more committed, in accordance with the rule of law, as Mrs. Vlahovic says. Thank you very, very much, gentlemen of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40621	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. That is the reason, I suppose, why Mrs. Vlahovic once again gave you the opportunity to say all that again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40622	I can do it one more time, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40623	You can't. Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40624	Honorable chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, I think we should all do our job. When we talk about an amendment to the name of this law at all, it should be said that in all countries in the environment there is only mining law, and that there is a need for a special law on geological research to be passed, which was the case before. I don't see why now the applicants of the amendments want something simple that they voted and proposed in 2011, as the Mining Act, to change now, because it simply isn't a practice at all in energy, nor is it recorded anywhere now. When we talk about work, how valuable an MP is, I had to do a little bit of statistics, because if you take, say, from last April 2014 to 2015, Mr Babic, for example, had, as a valuable MP, 104 amendments, from which 98 were accepted, representing 95% acceptance. If we talk, say, about my smallness, which has submitted 72 amendments, it's accepted 67, that's the acceptability of the amendment as a percentage of 93%. Therefore, it speaks of how much an MP does. I would say of this acceptability as part of my electoral body that they only have one good team of lecturers who therefore essentially submit these amendments and amend little laws. The essence of the amendment is not seen in the acceptability of the point and the decimal, but in what you change essentially, that some law lives and works. So essentially, when you look at it, the amendments that the SNS has submitted change a lot and they fix a lot in terms of when they need to be implemented, to simply implement reforms in each sector, especially when we talk about the energy sector, where we really now have one law that defines everything that concerns mining. So far, we have not had the opportunity to pass the law that was passed in 2011 because it represented a legal vacuum because the jurisdiction of the law in implementation was tied to the Minister for Environmental Protection. So he wasn't connected to energy at all. When we talk about protecting the environment, which has been a lot of objections, it should be said that 125m euros have been invested in recreation and a part that has been involved in the protection of the environment since 2011. No law, no permit will be passed without an assessment of the environmental impact. Therefore, I think that is the essence of why this ministry has also passed this law, in order to simply introduce great discipline when we talk about mining, from the aspect of particularly European integration and chapters 27. Therefore, this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40625	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. I think we've completely discussed this issue right now and we can focus completely on this law. The word is an international letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40626	Thank you. The amendment to which we support, which concerns changing the order of words in the name of the law, and then in the edges after which they pass, is related in the debate both to the situation in mining and geological research, in this order, that is, according to our proposal – geological research and mining and related to recultivation. I am grateful to the minister for repeating which members define the obligation to influence the environment. What remains unclear is, I would also ask my associates to pass on the question to the Minister, in what way and whether, since the environmental impact of the second law is related to the giving of integrated licences for geological research, or exploitation. This is a very important question, given that in the law we are calling upon, in the provisions that an environmental impact analysis will be done, for any other activity we clearly know that integrated permits are now going on and we know the difficulties that integrated licences are being issued. If the same difficulties are passed on to geological research, it won't be good at all. If it isn't, if geological research and exploitation are given off-line with integrated permits, as I assumed, thank you, then we only have a problem. The environmental impact analysis has been a subject on several occasions in our country, when it comes to geological research. It would be good if the government, or the ministry, were absolutely unequivocally to provide information on how the environment will be protected, regardless of whether local self-government is no longer directly involved in the decision-making process. As it is, it is ready for misunderstandings and conflicts in local environments where conditions already exist to do geological research, and no one needs these conflicts. So, the integrated permits are gone, environmental impact analysis has, monitoring also has and remains -- which inspector will stop, based on broken analysis provisions, geological research or exploitation? The question remains irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40627	Thank you. National MP Milinko Zivkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the distinguished guests and guests of the Ministry, it is my special pleasure here to inform my fellow Members and fellow Members of the Parliament that our amendment to Article 3 of this bill has been accepted. It's our argument to change Article 3. I would especially like Mrs. Tomic, who has been particularly concerned with this issue, since the chief and committee who is resolute about this matter, may pay some attention to our argument. In one part of our argument for this article concerns respect for the grammar and spelling of Serbian language, but in the other part, Mrs Tomic, we also had a large, I think, good, precise, clear debate on the content of this article on this subject. If it was too far-fetched to define the field of exploitation, and we had a good controversy here, I think, with our guests and guests from the Ministry. So I ask Mrs. Tomic to do the precision and truthfulness here says that the amendments here were not dominantly lexic, but were substantiative and that they were substantiative, Mrs. Tomic, mainly and accepted by the government's representatives. Our dilemma, for example. around Article 3 remains. I can hear both the minister and the opinion of his associates and associates now, because it is possible that their argument for this part of our member is still better. Our dilemma is next, it seems to us that reading the law can claim that the same mineral raw material is given to different companies in the same space, Mrs. Tomic, stuck in layers above each other and in the same geological formation at different depths. There was an argument, we heard an argument, if it's possible to hear it again okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40629	Thank you. The amendment has been passed. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development and Tourism, energy, accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40630	The President-in-Office, respected ministry colleagues, respected fellow MPs, this Article 3 refers to the concepts that appear in this law. Otherwise, the parliamentary group, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, has given 24 amendments to the goal, namely to improve the law, as I say, so that there is no doubt in future use by investors, who want to invest in this area. I'll just remind you that in an explanation for the adoption of this law, it says that it is precisely one of the objectives of the need to attract future investment investments, and it is our idea that some of the misunderstandings that can cause adverse consequences, and we already have such experiences, are removed. In this Article 3, I will refer only to the concept at point 40. It is an exploitation field, so that I do not read now, as professional names are etc. For the public, who is watching this, what was the purpose of our amendment on this. We just believe that if our proposed changes are not adopted, there may be various interpretations and arbitration, especially when it comes to the production of oil, gas and groundwater, precisely those resources for which Vojvodina is particularly interesting and has its specificities, and when it is included in the problem and protection space, there will be a need to have permanent arbitration. Overlaying the groundwater exploitation space and geothermal resources is not possible if the proposed definition of the exploitation field remains, our amendment refers to that. Namely, as the investor is interested in groundwater or geothermal resources, it will come into a situation to overlap the exploitation space with the already approved exploitation space if it remains, I will now quote what is in this concept, at the point of 40th to the projected depth of the exploitation proposed by the amendment for erasure. With the proposed changes and additions, we believe that it prevents the monopoly behaviour of investors who are authorised to exploit from the surface of the country, and there is no interest or technology for research, i.e. exploitation of the same or other mineral raw materials. We consider, or ask, why is it allowed to overlap the area for the production of groundwater and geothermal resources and not for other mineral raw materials? Why is overlapping the exploitation space at different depths allowed for fluid water and not for fluid oil? What difference does it make if both fluids are subject to the same natural laws of physics? We believe that exploitation space or field can be controlled by someone who does not have the proper technology so that they can blackmail and act monopoliesly, and this right only has the state of Serbia. We added points 53 and 54 in which we define the issue of documentation and we want that the competent authority that gives consent does not come into a situation where it has a kind of discretionary right to accept or not accept some technical document, i.e. defining this concept reduces the possibility of corruption. These were our interventions in this article. However, this was not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40631	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Zoran Babić, Vladimir Orlic, Milos Tosanic, Aleksandra Jovičić, Aleksandar Markovic, Vera Pavnović, Dr Branislav Blažić and Marijan Risticevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Blagoje Bradic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40632	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers with Associates, we intervened at item 38 in Article 3 and asked to delete the words "investigation drills". However, later when I considered amendments and other colleagues of mine, I saw that you accepted the amendment from colleagues who sought to delete the words “experienced. ” In your explanation for the refusal of amendments, you stated that the "examination drill" is not considered mining work because it is carried out in the course of geological research, and therefore you accepted the amendment from the SNS parliamentary group, but you remained in the position to keep the notion of drilling for reasons, quote – which is the exploitation of some mineral raw materials, oil, natural gas, water and geothermal resources by drilling and you say they are mining. I totally agree with that, and no one's slowing it down. However, I find it unnecessary to repeat the term "bushhole" because in point 38 at the very beginning of the description of mining works, mining works are considered works, so it is said to create wells for the purpose of exploiting mineral raw materials and geothermal resources. I don't see the difference between this and this. Once again, I ask you to consider this proposal of ours. I think your argument is inconclusive, because I actually don't see the difference in the description of the drill as a mining business and what you've stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40633	The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40634	I thank the chairman. We support the position of the promoters that the amendment to Article 3 paragraph 1 of point 38 is not accepted precisely for the reasons set out in the explanation of the amendments, as things are also based on this argument and based on the draft law and on the amendments adopted by the proposer, which relate to the same point, to the same member and position, it is clear that the amendment promoter did not see the difference between the term "investigation drill" which refers to works and geological research and the term "breeding" relating to mining works as an explosion of mineral raw materials, oil, gas and so on and so on, and should stand exactly in this article concerning what mining work is. So we support the proposal's position not to accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40635	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40636	That's exactly what I said, that an investigation drill is not considered a mining operation. But the drill is like a word, as a term, given at the very beginning of a description of mining works. I'll do it again. So mining works are considered work on making wells to exploit mineral raw materials and geothermal resources and so on. In your explanation, however, you say that the notion of a well should be maintained because the exploitation of some mineral raw materials, oil, natural gas, water and geothermal resources is done through a well. Nobody slows it down. So it's unnecessary to repeat the same concept twice in determining the concept of mining work. I'm still standing by my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40637	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40638	The Honorable President, Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, the amendment we have submitted and which was accepted was based on the debate we had through the Serbia Energy Policy Forum, and on these very issues, there was one expert, how to say, misunderstandings, that is, this term that was accepted through this way of operating the well and the explanation given to us by the people involved in the making of the wells, just when it comes to gas and oil, it just shows that it implies essentially these investigative wells. That's why we got a good recommendation to propose a amendment like this. Secondly, they're not SNS amendments. Anyone who was present at that forum signed it. We also have a PUPS emissary that was present. So, the idea was that indeed all parties, all MPs in this debate, would support such legal proposals that would go towards improving legal solutions. And on the basis of this proposal and the debate in the presence of the president of the ministry, Mr. Assistant Minister in charge of the mining of Mr. Sinisha Atanakovic and the gentlemen who were both NIS and EPS, we have actually submitted such an amendment. The explanation we got was essentially whether it was meant to be. That's why we put up with it, and that's how it's accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40639	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40640	I guess we don't understand each other. Nobody slows down, I hope you'll all agree, that both oil and natural gas are a kind of mineral raw material. And no one argues that the concept of drilling is needed as a way of exploiting oil, natural gas and other things. However, I repeat, in the definition of point 38, it is well said – mining works are considered for the purpose of exploiting mineral raw materials and geothermal resources. I don't understand why the concept is repeated, later and elaborated and gives such an explanation, that in this case the drill is used only in the case of oil, natural gas and geothermal sources. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40641	Thank you. Parliamentarians Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić and Jovana Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Together, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers Antića and the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, the amendment which we have suggested to change the name Section 3. One is to remind here my fellow Members of the Members of the People's Parliament, of the 16 amendments accepted by us, the People's MPs of the New Party. Since there are those among the MPs and MPs of the SNS who seem to have not carefully read the arguments of our amendments, and these are the arguments to which both the Minister and the Government are called to accept these amendments, here, I would especially like to point out to my colleague, Mrs Tomic, what was the reason for accepting this amendment. We have seen, for example, that in earlier drafts of the law in Article 4 a provision defining the general interest, and that it is now gone. Since this member and section speak of public interest, for the expropriation of certain immovableities for mining and geological projects, we felt that the name section should be adapted to what was contained in the entire section. What did the government and the Ministry do? Reasonably reacted people, read an explanation, which is not only lexique here, let's say, and announced - this amendment is accepted, Mrs. Tomic, for those reasons that have been given in explanation. Well, I ask all the MPs, when they discuss both our amendments and their content, to make precise and appropriate use of what the arguments of our amendments are, without even a shred of disdain when it comes to our dedicated work in the National Assembly, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40643	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milenko Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milenko Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40644	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Honored Ministers Antić with his associates, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, on Article 4, I have submitted amendments to the point of article 3 of Article 4, which says: copper ore and gold, and I have submitted the amendment that it should stand – copper ore and other precious metals (gold, silver, paladium, platinum), under point 4. - lead ore and zinc, and I think we forgot the nickel ore. Furthermore, in that article, I have also submitted an amendment that the export of strategic raw materials from the 2nd position of this member in the form of goods ore outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia is not allowed. Exports of strategic raw materials concentrates are allowed with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, except for copper concentrate to be processed in Serbia. It is possible to export concentrates for service processing, as well as concentrates with an increased degree of harmful interference for service processing, with previous consent of processors in Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia. I was going to say that our potentials, our processing capacities are not protected by apriors, but simply that we have mechanisms that we can act with, that we can act marketly, but that at certain times and that market behaviour can be disrupted. What am I talking about? I'm talking about that it's normal for the concentrates we produce in Serbia, for which we have processing capacity, to get metals in our processing facilities, and gold, as it has been so far, to be given to the NBS. I also predicted that the export of concentrates in two cases – when our processing facilities are unable to absorb that concentrate and that raw materials should not be held captive, that it can be processed, but only to be processed abroad, where metals would be returned to Serbia again, and from this processing of metals gold gave the NBS again. The third option, when there is a possibility that there are more harmful substances in the concentrate content, such as arsenic, such as lead, excess zinc, such as cadmium, such as mercury, that in these cases our technology is not a frame, and at the heart of environmental protection, we give such concentrates to those technologies in the world that can process it, and concentrates, or processed metals, back to the Republic of Serbia. The explanation for that is that simply, by looking at the whole law, we cannot control the processing abroad provided for by this law. Article 159, point 2 of Section 4, says that the raw materials of 5% of the net income of topionic exploitation are to be charged. Who's going to use topopian to control abroad? Topionic exploitation is the difference between selling prices, which no one will tell us, and the cost of melting, refinement, overload, etc. So these 5% of ours are imaginary, as far as abroad is concerned. I suggest that concentrates in quantities that can be processed in our processing, and that the other concentrates go abroad. If we don't have processing facilities for some concentrates, it's possible to take some concentrates out, but not with the collection of net income from the topionic process. Namely, this should be charged before leaving the country and to determine the content of copper, gold content, platinum content, silver content and to charge before leaving, where we do not have processing capacity. We're ready for the competition, but we're just afraid that the market doesn't threaten us in a way, if we don't formulate this well enough, and we simply use the freedom they got here so they can take out both concentrates and ore and more expensive, but what we can do to get our processing facilities into trouble. I hope that, seeing that this amendment has not been accepted entirely, except for this part up there where copper and gold are, or lead and zinc, that if it couldn't already, it was late, it didn't react, in some way, that this area has to be regulated by some sublegal acts, because we will simply bring the problem of functioning, or we will bring to the problem of strategic raw material and the one that is strategic raw material will not be at that moment, because it will simply be that strategic raw material managed by someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40645	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The minister called. Minister, do you want an explanation to hear first or to say what they suggested? You got it. Say, do you accept the amendment? I understood you that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40646	We had a committee session just before Parliament's session and the agreement that we reached with the chairman of the committee is that we are just going in this way to accept this amendment at the assembly itself, given that we have received about three or three essentially the same amendments that have certain technical differences and that we have agreed that, technically, this amendment is the most complex one. I would, of course, like to thank Mrs Tomic first of all for the high degree of understanding and creativity to find a solution and a way out of this situation, and, of course, I suggest that, or I declare that we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40647	Let me repeat, the amendment the government accepts today at the session. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40648	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers of Antić and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, as we agreed and during the debate this morning on the committee chaired by Mrs Tomic, said that this amendment to Article 4, I would just like to declare one correction and say that the New Party now has 17 instead of 16 amendments accepted and for all those MPs who are constantly directed towards percentages, to say that in this sense we have now crossed 9% of the total amendments accepted, and according to certain analogues, which are being made at the home of the National Assembly, means that the New Party has one firm foothold in the electoral body today, which is 9%, or over 9%, respectively, respected gentlemen. I'm here to say that it was necessary to intervene with the amendment and to Article 4, since we noticed that lead and zinc ores were in some way neglected from a list that existed in Article 4. We have, of course, explained by saying that we believe that lead and zinc should be included in strategic raw materials, because they are next to copper and gold, the only raw material in the metal group that exists in a significant amount in Serbia. We offered this amendment, the ministry reacted with one idea to support Mrs. Tomic's amendment, but in the end it was concluded that, Mrs. Tomic, both in lexic, and in a subtle sense and on whatever side you look at our amendments, our amendment was the best, let me say, Minister Antic, perfect. I believe it was indeed the turn and that this amendment was adopted as one now, Mrs Gojkovic, of the 17 amendments accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40649	The board president, Mrs. Tomic, suggested that I ask the minister if she would accept. (Vladimir Pavicevic: It was necessary. It would be nice to say thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic: it is a mistake. It's hard to say thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40650	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, is difficult to recognise political correctness when it comes to the SNS. It is very difficult, especially if it comes from opposition MPs, but Serbia's citizens need to know what it is. It is true that lead and zinc are left out in Article 4 when it comes to the counting of ore. So copper, gold. We noticed that lead and zinc were missing. What we submitted as a group of MPs, also present at the debate, at the Serbia Energy Policy Forum, was to add these two ores. Our fellow MPs from the SDP group submitted the same thing, but only with a dot and a comma, and colleagues who have now proposed this amendment have put a new member on lead and zinc. I think we also saw this before the Committee's session with the minister and in order to make the best decision we said that we would accept that this amendment, which was made by the promoters, Mr Zivkovic and Mr Pavicevic, as one of the best of these three, and for this we would surely, during the vote, have to have an interruption and the Committee would have to make such a decision in accordance with what the minister had accepted, and I think we should have heard from colleagues Pavicevic and at least one thank you because we turned out to be extremely correct and looked at all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40651	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic: Thank you. I thank you, too. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40652	Thank you. The amendment refers to Article 4 defining mineral resources, i.e. mineral raw materials of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia. We have complemented this list of mineral raw materials of strategic importance, and put it first, under point one, groundwater for the water supply of the population, because the water is marked by the UN as oil of the 21st century which is extremely important and necessary to protect. These days the Conference on Climate Change in Paris is going on and it's about the importance that water resources are being preserved. The specificities of the Vojvodina are, in fact, that underground waters are used exclusively in Vojvodina for water supply, and often from those depths where they are not renewable, i.e. they are very slowly renewable. The same layers are often used by industry, used for watering. Now we're in a position, you know very well, because we've adopted here that the country is being betrayed, I'm not going to tell the Arabs, or Al Dahri, I don't know what it's called, so they can also use these water layers. At this very moment, a meeting is being held in the Small Hall with the Minister of Agriculture, related to agricultural land and here, if we do not have this resource very much under control, and if we do not take care to preserve the resources of underground waters and not put them into this law, then I fear we will come into a situation where we can no longer control things. Chapter 27, that is, in the European Union's assessment, states that we do not have interdepartmental co-operation, i.e. the lack of interdepartmentary co-operation. I think this is one example where there was not enough co-operation in accordance with the Water Act, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, and the Ministry of Local Self-Government has importance in this area, because water supply is solely in the hands of local self-government. I don't think it matters that this resource is classified as a resource of strategic importance. Just to point out, we were denied this amendment, an explanation that is the same as Mr. Milinko Zivkovic's, and when his page is opened there, it's not because of someone else's. However, no underground water is mentioned as a resource of strategic importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40653	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40654	Thank you. To support the amendment submitted by colleagues for at least three reasons. The first is that we have an explanation for geothermal water that it will be in the Water Act, that is, there is no compensation here, the second is that we have already heard the argument several times in proposing various laws, it will be regulated by another law, so now we will not or insist on staying here. I can give you an example of what it's like when there's no dialogue for a clear answer, when I was in the Small Hall discussing the Nature Protection Bill here, there's been a debate on the Law of Law. I said there was in the Law on Law and Objects for First and Second Protection of Nature, and the representatives of the Government told me it wasn't. That's what a colleague says when she's talking about a lack of interresor co-operation. I know how difficult this is, I don't think this Ministry is more responsible than anyone if there's no horizontal legislation and there's no co-operation, but it's important on this law that we know if there's gonna be any groundwater as a resource. The third argument is the general water situation in Serbia so that we have a lot of work to do. I'm not saying it's going to be a task of this ministry, but here we need a clear assessment. Minister Antic cannot take responsibility for any other ministry, but we cannot remain without an answer or in a collapsing response as was the case recently with the Nature Protection Act and the Law on Law of Law. Why it's important to treat groundwater as a valuable resource, I don't know if we need any special arguments about us dealing with the environment, and so do the waters in terms of preserving and improving the purification of water maps and everything else. This is of course the same interest as maps of mineral raw materials, as well as maps of erosion, as well as plans for controlled water streams, as well as maps of lush water. So we don't separate it. We're aware that the laws can separate it, but we want to make sure that in the separation of this topic of underground waters, it won't go anywhere, so we won't have in the Geological Research and Mining Act. We don't know if he'll show up in the Water Act, and all we have is promises that within a month, a year or two, he'll find it in some law. It's motivation and support for the amendment and question of the minister. I think it is a common benefit to give a clear message about what the Ministry really thinks if it does not want this amendment to be adopted and included in the provisions of the Mining and Geological Research Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40655	Minister Antic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40656	I don't think we have any major problem here, just a slight misunderstanding of the jurisdiction of this law. No one argues that water is the most important thing. Of course, water is the most important of all. However, by putting in place this definition of certain mineral resources, we mention the mineral resources of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, above all, in connection with other and new procedures related to the exploitation of precisely these mineral raw materials that we have listed, which we have defined from expropriation and everything else in the exploitation sense and in terms of the economy. This law does not tang the exploitation of water. Exploitation of water is governed by other laws and through water permits. This law can treat water exclusively from a geological point of view and from the point of view of research, so that in this sense water, i.e. groundwater, cannot be defined as a mineral resource of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, with no one reducing the importance of water, as the first issue we are dealing with today, and we will only be dealing with in the future. I apologize to the amendment's promoters for the obvious technical error in the explanation of why this amendment is not accepted, and we have paid great attention to every argument being good and thanking Mr. Zivkovic, I have not been able to comment on his amendment, which is extremely energy invested in this amendment, but we have simply not been able to accept him, first of all, for the reason that he enters a certain matter that we do not regulate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40657	Thanks, time. You wanted to do it one more time, yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40658	I think we need to clarify, not because we do not know all the areas, but because of those who listen to us. So if that's what you say to ministers, why do you even have a qualification of water as mineral raw materials? What about the washing? How do you treat that? It's important because we know how the process of research and research and testing and how the permits go. We know mineral raw materials and water will meet. As it is written, the law takes jurisdiction over one part of the water, but you say we don't want the groundwater to be resources. Then it would be good, I can't tell you how to explain it, it's your right, but it would be good to give us an example of what it's about washing minerals out of water streams or how we treat groundwater in geological research, or in tests that we want to confirm that we need to open a research field here. If we know who's issuing the licenses, it's your Ministry, and what we're going to do for the groundwater reserves in general and how it's going to be in the Water Law. I'm not saying that you have to accept the amendment, I just think the amendment is important, and I think it's important that we share this information because it's an extremely important topic in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40659	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Zoran Babic, Vladimir Orlic, Milos Tosanic, Aleksandar Jovičić, Aleksandar Markovic, Vera Paunovic, Branislav Blažic and Marijan Risticevic. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Blagoje Bradic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40660	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, our MP group has noticed that among the mineral raw materials of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia there is no lead and zinc and we have submitted an identical amendment as a group of MPs spoken of by Mrs Aleksandra Tomic. However, since you adopted Mr Pavicevic's amendment, it is good that either of these three amendments has been adopted, and in this way lead and zinc have entered raw materials of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40661	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40662	I only ask that we understand each other well, both with you and Mr. Zivkovic and Pavicevic and Mrs. Tomic and the SNS Parliament Club, which essentially proposed an identical amendment. We didn't skip copper and zinc, we didn't erase anything. If you carefully read this member of the law, it defines a number of items which are explicitly mentioned and a provision that says – other mineral raw materials specified by the Government's special act on a proposal from the Ministry responsible for the affairs of geological research or mining. So, above all, we have defined in the original work version, the draft law and the bill and the bill that we have sent to Parliament those mineral raw materials which, from the point of view of the economy and their participation in this overall picture, have the greatest importance and greatest exploitation potential. Just respecting the fact that copper and zinc are somewhere on that border and respecting parliament, and the need, zinc and lead I apologize, and by respecting the parliament that has responded to the amendment under this article we have accepted that this is explicitly stated. No one erased it. That's all I wanted to say very precisely, because compared to theirs, what's going to be the result of the research and their possible advancement on that scale of exploitation potential, they would have without any dilemma in this article that we left behind as an option for the government to enter that category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40663	The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40664	Just one sentence. Nobody says you forgot copper and gold. We only suggested that Article 4 paragraph 2 point 3 be changed and read. So, there's copper and gold, and there's lead and zinc. However, if you have found that the amendment of counterpart Pavicevic is better, I fully agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40665	National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milinko Zivkovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. Milinko Zivkovic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40666	Dear Presidents, I am adding new positions 2 and 3 to Article 5 after Article 1 - indicators of the bed of mineral raw materials will be introduced into all the premises and urban plans of the existing and future areas covered by the bed of mineral raw materials. The land in the area will be designated as potential, construction, mining land, and adequate planning solutions will be adopted in accordance with this law, the law governing spatial planning, the Space Plan of RS, the Sustainable Development Strategy and the Strategy for the Management of Mineral Raw materials RS. Article 2 – as mineral raw materials are of strategic importance for the economy and are located in the soil, while immovableities can be built elsewhere, state authorities will adapt the planning and urban planning documents to achieve the objectives of the RS mineral resource management strategy in accordance with the law governing spatial planning and urban planning and this law. The bottom line is that this amendment connects the Mining and Geological Research Act with laws that regulate spatial planning in an adequate way to ensure long-term planning for the development of mining that will not have obstacles to realisation. It insists on the timely provision of space for the opening of new mines and the construction of necessary mine facilities by pointing to the existing mineralisation and reservation of future space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40667	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Blagoja Bradi. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word is Branka Karavidić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40668	Thank you, Madam President. It's a good thing you accepted this amendment. This amendment defines who cannot deal with research and exploitation of mineral raw materials, so Article 7 says that all companies, legal entities, entrepreneurs who have debts based on public spending on previous research and the exploitation of illegal research and exploitation have not fulfilled their obligations in relation to the recovery of environmental protection, etc. I can't do this job. We have proposed, in our amendment, that this work cannot be done by those who have reached and unsettled obligations based on public income. It is simply inadmissible that this aspect of the obligation of entrepreneurs to do this work is not taken into account and it is good that the Government has accepted this amendment because in this way we will strictly take care of who, or who is to be approved for research and exploitation of mineral raw materials. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40669	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic, Dejan Chapo.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40670	Thank you very much. Namely, this Article 8 refers to, or treats cases where an entrepreneur undertakes geological research or exploitation or other geological resources without the necessary approval, it is then said in this article which you have proposed to compensate the owner for the occupied land, and the RS, or the budget of the autonomous province. We have suggested that when such a thing happens that, if such an illicit exploitation or research is done, the budget of the local self-government unit is paid 10 times the value of the research done or the mineral raw material produced, because we believe that in this proposal that only damage is said to be compensated where and where it is done, we consider it to be practically stimulating for those who are doing such illicit exploitation. We had cases like this in Vojvodina when roads were built, when sand and other materials were used and holes were left in the ata which were subsequently turned into dumps. In fact, we believe that illicit geological research or exploitation of raw materials can most effectively be recorded by the competent authorities of local self-government, and in this proposed Article, paragraph 8, the first local self-government, as you have suggested, has no interest in dealing with this problem, can only have major problems and authorities and individuals who do so and those who do so. The adoption of the proposed amendments that we are giving would raise the efficiency, including the effectiveness of the work of local self-government that are responsible for controlling events in their territory, and in a proposed way even stimulate employees in the bar not to register, or to be uninformed when some exploitation is allowed for personal benefit and there have been such cases and therefore we believe that our amendment is to punish it tenfold, that it will stop such illicit actions. It seems to me that we're the only country in which it can happen that someone's not allowed to work and exploit and that the inspection doesn't notice in time, because it's such an organisation that it's an inspection that local self-governments simply have no interest, even on the contrary, can be corrupt. In your explanation, you said you refused the amendment. It's pretty incoherent, but good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40671	Thank you. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovi and Blagoja Bradic together. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40672	Thank you, Madam President. I'd just like to ask you, how much time do I have left from my authority? Maybe I was wrong not to point out that I was using the previous time for...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40673	Twelve minutes and 27 seconds. The other time was wasted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40674	Thank you. Article 9 is one of the many members that we have influenced and the general position of our parliamentary group is that we should not touch the competences of local administrations given to them by existing law. So, like many amendments that will later appear, we are in fact asking to retain the jurisdiction of local administrations and regarding the normisation of procedures, whether they relate to the issue, or to the issue of a geological research authorisation, to retain the rights to research spaces, to the exploitation field, to the exploitation and to all types of transfer of approval, to the construction of mining facilities, as well as to the execution of mining works. We believe it is necessary to maintain the jurisdiction of local administrations, given the importance of these resources to them alone. It is unacceptable to argue that local administrations were not interested in trusted jurisdiction. This is how this bill bypasses the municipalities. Geological research, exploitation of mineral raw materials will be done in their territories, and they will not, unfortunately, participate, because, as the reason for the refusal of amendments and in the law itself, were in fact an obstacle to faster and more efficient treatment of economic operators. Maybe that's what it was, I'm not slow, but what did the state do about promoting these trusted powers among local administrations? Did she encourage local administrations to join their capacities to accelerate this small step towards decentralisation? The state decided on this simpler and easier step and took their jurisdiction. On the way to the EU, it is necessary to strengthen capacities already existing and develop new at both republican and local level. Unfortunately, by rejecting this amendment and our other amendments, which are currently on the issue of the participation of local administrations throughout this procedure, I think that the return to the 2014 level, given that local administrations are taking this way, that is to say, the powers given to them by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40675	Thank you. My mistake, you have a group. My mistake was saying you didn't, I didn't read it right. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40676	I thank you, President. Dear representatives of the ministry, respected fellow MPs, with respect for the motives the motionor has highlighted in this amendment, there are also certain points that can certainly be semi-economic when it comes to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is doubtless that all municipalities, i.e. local self-government, will not talk about cities, but about municipalities and, as I will, do not have sufficient capacity to carry out the burden of activities relating to this legislation which is prescribed by the proposed member in relation to the amendment to which that member is being intervened. In particular, many municipalities have no professional potential, and they have no potential that binds even to that so-called. an administrative level that could process what the classification requires, respecting everything that is related to the administrative and legal procedure, given that this is not just about the administrative procedure. It is also a matter of certain professional elements which and how they must be evaluated and to which and how attention must be paid to the reception of requests, the processing of requests and the making of appropriate decisions under that request. It is not disputed and it cannot be doubted that the ministry's analysis as a proposing was correct, that only 20% of the total number of local self-governments had participated, i.e. made a wish and will to participate in this. In any case, I don't want to defuse the efforts to affirm the local self-government, and they should be affirmed, but in a particular case, it's about trusted jobs that are and how significant. They're too important for the state. It's about natural resources that need to be taken care of by the state. It's just that there's no tight centralization going on here, if that's what I understand. It's not about strict centralised, it's about what protects mostly professions and professional parameters. Therefore, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group believes the amendment should not be accepted, as there are also practical reasons why local self-government did not raise that potential. Could the state have helped raise that potential? Maybe, but much sooner and much sooner than it was ever started with system solutions and law-making. In particular, let's say I set a practical example. Is it possible, for example, that the municipality of Nova Varoš, or the municipality of Trgoviš, or the municipality of Zaguvica, carries such potential that it implies resolving such demands and acting on such requirements, and there are only three employees in the municipal administration? Three or four, as is the case at the Shop. They don't even have management chiefs, they don't have administration, but the community makes up everything. So it's not the same everywhere, the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia is not covered by the capacity needed here. I repeat, with respect to the motives of the amendments, yet in a practical sense he is not enforceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40677	Mrs. Branka, do you want a replica or an amendment? (Branka Karavidic: Replica. I don't see the basis. (Branka Karavidic: Then by amendment, as authorized.) ) Simply, MP Jovanovic delivered his opinion on the amendment, but I can give you my word on the amendment if you like. Let me, I have to respect the order, first there's the word Gordana Komic, and then I'll give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40678	I thank you for supporting both the amendments and the 9th, which were submitted by colleagues Branko Karavidic and the 8th member, who submitted a national MP, Nada Lazic, because it is a decision by the strategic government to exclude local self-government from business. The arguments are -- they don't give licenses on time, they don't do their jobs on time, they stop investors, they don't have professional people. Great, but who's going to do it now in that same store or Frog, wherever? It is a strategic third time that the Government has a strategy to either fully confiscate the powers of local self-government or give them authority and not give them money for those powers. The final example is – give money to employees in preschool institutions. From where? We don't know. The auditor does not give out of the budget reserve, but said the government is the authority of local self-government, which by law is. So who's going to do these jobs, and why is it a strategy for us all to treat the worst local self-government? So you have access to several laws that because 30% of local self-government or 10% or whatever number you're saying has no capacity, well, then we won't give anyone that jurisdiction. What does it look like in practice? I'm going to share with you an example that may act as a cartoon minister, but if you don't accept amendments to Articles 9 and 8 or if we don't at least start talking about why we treat the worst and not the best with the help strategy of the worst, that's what European countries seem to do, let's say, with clay. You can't get a license, these are preventing you, you're counting as an investor who takes down an exhausting source, the clay is an exhausting source, from the plot you choose. If the inspector ever catches you, you're already included in the price of any loss you might have to pay as punishment. How will it be with the request to do geological research? I know that there are companies and states that conjecture this way, but I don't know any argument -- take jurisdiction over local self-government, honorary word, my mother, it's better that way. It's an argument that we hear not only from the government that we're opposition to, it was also colorful in the government that I was in support of, which I was also an opposition to because I guess ministers have a feeling – as I am now going to tell local self-government what they're going to do, they have nothing to do, they have no one, they have no profession, so I'm going to take their jurisdiction. Or, behold, they have jurisdiction, but I do not give them money. European integration, like the job around which we are all in the O.R. all complicated, huge work, 90% is done locally. For 90% of jobs reform is responsible for people in local self-government, at local level. We now have laws we call European. It's legitimate to have such a goal. It's not legitimate to say – it's better that I ask you, if local self-government couldn't do it so far, and how can they do it now? All four geological inspectors working at the Ministry of Mines will cover everything they couldn't local self-government. We don't. He's not here, how can I tell you, a game between maybe winning the ruling coalition or the opposition, you've already won. The game is about how to make your geological research legal, to run smoothly with the least obstacles and with the highest guarantees that it will comply with what you are bound by Chapter 15 and Chapter 27. That's what the misunderstanding is about. It's no problem not to accept the amendment. I'll see you here in six months, and in a year, when the government comes to us with the same amendment. We are not the opposition who will tell you, and We have told you. But it's really a long list of laws where people who understand themselves in matter asked for the most well-intentioned dialogue, so there was more stubbornness than argument, and then we came up with changes and additions to the same laws. I will vote in favour of the amendments, and I ask you to at least write sublegal acts, if it is not already clear here, it will be clear, precisely divided jurisdiction both for the supervision and obligations of the investor and for the local self-government, because otherwise we have spent all this time together pointlessly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40679	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40680	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll use the time of the authorized representative. I just want to thank my colleague Comic for his support. I think she just said a good part of my mind, but I need to do it again. All of us, whether we are in the Shop, Novi Varoša, Majdanpek, Belgrade, Novi Sad, are on our way to the EU waiting, i.e. we need to strengthen our capacities, either in the Shop, in Novi Varoša, Majdanpek or Belgrade. We need to strengthen not only the republican capacities, but also local capacities. That's what my colleague Comic and I are talking about. If the existing law provides the possibility for local administrations to do trusted jobs, they probably did not manage well in the first place unless there was a promotion, unless there was a motivation for neighbouring local administrations to join and accept the job. I don't see why something like this is being taken away a year and a half ago as a possibility in this way. This is how local administrations are going to find themselves in a situation where one day there's a company on their territory that's doing investigative work, and they have no idea who's doing it, who's doing it, who's investigating the stone, who's investigating the gravel, that's what I'm talking about. In each of these members, there is a possibility, if the local administration or province is scheduled, that the ministry is making a final decision. That's what I'm talking about. We must all also work to strengthen capacity and human resources, if we truly want to be part of the EU someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40681	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40682	I thank the chairman. It's obvious there's a certain level of political hypocrisis here. There are facts that are notorous, which we cannot question, and there are also facts that we can argue about. But the notoristic fact is that all local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has not reached that level of potential and capacity needed to do these jobs. Here, two things persist all the time - a strategy of even development in the territory of the Republic of Serbia compared to this law, we cannot undermine the strategy of even development under the provisions of this law. If so, the fact that this same Shop has been undeveloped for 30 years is an undeveloped area, such as the 30-year undeveloped area and Nova Varoš and Zaguvica, such as many other undeveloped areas. If it's so backwards for so long, why is it suddenly showing up as some kind of mentality? According to these territories, we haven't done anything before, and now suddenly we've woken up from a deep dream – let's move something now. This law, by some deep conviction, binds itself to the state of play. The practical situation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is exactly like this, which we point to. In order to change, it is necessary to do something first to raise the standard of people, to raise economic activity, to train local self-government units for everything we want from them, and only then to enter into a story that connects to trusted powers, entrusted jobs, etc. Will the ministry, as a promoter, present the burden of the work that is being referred to here? I am convinced he will because there is a special responsibility of the motionor for the implementation of this law. But if we're talking about it, then let's be extremely specific and completely honest. What is the purpose of this law, like any other law? In a practical sense, the word is most effective and in a practical sense meets the needs of those to whom this law applies and which this law covers, and these are those that require that they be the bearers of activities on geological research and all the other parts provided for in these laws. Can this be done in the municipalities I pointed to? I'm sure he can't. I would not open up further controversy because it will go a long way, and in that distance we can only go to something that involves more political marketing, which the SPS in this House will not do, nor has it done so far. We take only from a professional aspect of the facts that we consider to be recognizable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40683	By amendment, MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40684	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, again from the time of the authorized representative. In the absence of arguments, it immediately moves to a political field and even goes into qualifications that this is a political hypocrisis. I'm just asking -- are municipalities like the Shop, New Varoshi should be preserved and left in the state they are in today? I don't think so. If in a little over a year the application of this law 20% of local administrations showed willingness to work, if we had worked a little bit more or worked a little more to promote these very entrusted jobs, to speed them up to join together, maybe next year there would be 50% of the local administrations that this job wants to do. That's exactly what I'm talking about, and I had no intention of challenging this amendment of mine to any kind of politics. I simply convey the position of my parliamentary group which thinks that local administrations should not be given transferred powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40685	By amendment, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40686	This time really is the last call. Thank God we agree on something, which is to stimulate local self-government units. And they need to be stimulated and they should be promoted in every way, but it shouldn't be done just like that – well, you know what I'm supposed to be investing in? We should've invested. And we and you and all the previous authorities, the current authorities who and how they forgot to invest in local self-government and Priboj, Nova Varoš and Prepolje and all other underdeveloped municipalities. These municipalities should be raised to a level that deserves to meet the standard of citizens where it is not there now, but it is not a subject. That's not exactly what a member of this law means. This law points to something else. Can these municipalities that we all wish well carry the burden of a job that is defined by this member? We can't, and that's why this proposal, at least in this part of the law, is meaningful and should survive as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40687	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40688	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, I think that as far as this amendment is concerned, there was no harm in the concept of trusted affairs that local self-government certainly did not mean by whoever wrote this law. For a simple reason, what when we talk about trusted jobs, and especially in the field of mining and people who need to deal with it on the site, is a very difficult job, especially when we talk about how they should be directed into the design of the elaborates. Especially when we talk about people who need to have a certain kind of license which, of course, only now appears in the law that it has been resolved through the ministry, because there is no competent institution in Serbia that has given at all any kind of mining license. So I don't think this amendment was accepted for the simple reason that life showed up in 2011 to this day, that this job simply was not local self-government capable. Simply the whole business and that follows us in this area now and when you get a big share, a large number of players in this area who will want to simply deal with this job will not be able to work with local self-governments from the beginning to the end. This is why the promoter gave the best solution, which is simply the competent ministry is doing this job, and surely without local self-government they will not be able to implement any projects that are at all related to mining and geological research. So I think that, for a reason, this amendment was not accepted, that it was a concept that it was feasible to accept this amendment safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40689	National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Mr Blagoja Bradic together. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40690	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 10. The bill regulates what happens to the approval for the exploitation of mineral raw materials reserves and geothermal resources when the legal person to whom that authorisation is granted is in the process of selling through privatisation. We felt that the proposed member of the bill was a little complicated, too large and that he did not adequately regulate this matter, so we put the amendment, that Article 10 was changed so that it was – in the property of a legal person who serves to exploit the reserves of mineral raw materials and geothermal resources and which is sold in the privatisation process as natural capital and the approval for the exploitation of the reserves of mineral raw materials and geothermal resources that were issued to him. As an explanation, we have stated that the approval for the exploitation of the reserves of mineral raw materials and geothermal resources owned by legal persons is an extremely valuable right and practically in the privatisation process it must enter the property of a legal person who is privatised. The amendment is not accepted and it is reasoned that the proposed legislative solution refers to the transfer of the authorisation for the exploitation of the reserve of mineral raw materials and geothermal resources issued to a legal person whose property is used for the exploitation of the sale in the privatisation process in accordance with the rules governing the way and the privatisation process. The approval for the exploitation of mineral raw materials reserves only approves the use of mineral raw materials as a natural good in the public property of the Republic of Serbia on which the capital society cannot acquire the right of ownership and as such has no character of property. Either you didn't understand our amendment because perhaps the argument was too short or you gave this explanation why the rejection was given on a flat-rate basis, as many arguments were given about the rejection of the amendment in this opinion. We are aware that approval for exploitation is not a property right, it has no dilemma, but that approval is the basis for obtaining the right to exploitation. So the rights to use and exploit raw materials that are later processed and sold. So, the one who has the approval based on him gets a big profit, if he's doing well. This approval also has a certain market value which is often and very high and we believe that this authorisation must also be paid for as well as for the property. That's why we said it's being sold as part of the property, not that it's becoming an asset approval. I don't think we understand the interpretation of our amendment here, so I suggest you reconsider this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40691	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenada Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Master Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12 amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Mr. Blagoja Bradić. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40692	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also from a time of authority. It's a good thing the government has accepted this amendment. It refers to Article 12, paragraph 3, which says the Strategy is brought by the National Assembly on a proposal from the government for a period of 10 years. We have deleted this word “of” and suggested the word “minimum” because we think that long deadlines are intended for research procedures, the exploitation of mineral raw materials, sufficient reason for the strategy to be adopted and for a longer period of 10 years. So, I thank the representatives of the government who have recognised the good will of our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40693	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Mr Blagoja Bradic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40694	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted an amendment to Article 13(1) and at the end of the sentence we added to delete the point and add the words "and report to the National Assembly once a year on the implementation of the plan and the strategy programme in the previous year". We believe that the National Assembly as a legislative body must be familiar with the implementation of the strategy’s plan and programme, which the Assembly normally brings. However, in a practical explanation, our explanation for the amendment confirms. So, we believe that this amendment, meaning it has been given its characteristic in a routine manner, and there is no reason why it would not be accepted, explaining how the government already gives. It is not so and we believe that the Assembly that adopts that strategy should and have insight into the permanent state of control, i.e. through those annual reports that it gets information about what is actually happening to this strategy, what is the level of development and whether there is a stalemate, because we are witnesses that in the previous period, means these clauses, that the government controls, are very often left out of the report, and then we have a problem that we can't fully have an insight into the actual state. Since it is a national good, it is an interest for all citizens of Serbia to receive information through us, MPs, on what is actually happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40695	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milinko Zivkovic. The word is made by MP Milinko Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40696	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have also submitted an amendment to Article 13 following Article 2 of the new position, which reads: "In order to improve accountability and transparency in the use of public funds and more rational implementation of a strategy for the management of mineral and other geological resources of strategic importance for the state, the Government may, as the owner or owner of a control stake, on a proposal from the Minister, make a decision imposing specific rules on the provision of conditions for exploitation, on planning and control of public-owned enterprises, as well as on state control and on research and exploitation of mineral resources, as well as on enterprises which are in the function of exploiting mineral resources. Here is a more detailed way of implementing a mineral resource management strategy of strategic importance. In order to ensure the conditions for the continuity of excavations, the Government may set priorities for the defined dynamics of the development of the spears to build new mining facilities or determine priorities for the removal of existing facilities within the exploitation field, or define as an emergency obligation to explore a specific space for obtaining strategic raw materials. To carry out, special tasks are given to companies carrying out research and exploitation work, as public enterprises that will be in the role of implementing a strategy to manage mineral raw materials, such as water industry, forestry, construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40697	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40698	Thank you very much. The amendment refers to Chapter 3 where the obligation is defined, i.e. the activities of the Geological Institute of Serbia. We have made an amendment to this article in order to take into account the 1st position in which the Geological Survey of Serbia is said to be conducting basic geological research within the meaning of Articles 17 and 18 of this Law, and other geological research covered by the annual programme of Article 20 of this Law, as well as the work of applied geological research of importance for the Republic of Serbia. We have added here after the words "Serbia" and "identification and preservation of entire cores of investigative and all exploiting wells and collections of minerals, rocks and fossils of importance for the Republic of Serbia". We also added two new positions after Article 4 which say that the Institute can carry out the tasks of geological expert supervision of the performance of these species, of carrying out all kinds of geological research for the needs and in the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Also a new position – The Institute establishes specialist organisational units in its composition depending on strategic importance and representation, overcoming mineral raw materials in various parts of the Republic of Serbia. In our explanation, there is no indication of who is performing expert geological surveillance on behalf of the owner of the space, i.e. The Republic of Serbia, apart from geological inspectors who do so besides other jobs occasionally because of their small number, we heard just before. The inspectors are conducting surveillance, and the proposed surveillance would be technical and executive. Articles 4 and 5 of Article 5. The bill is defined and named by a person who protects Serbia's interest, only in companies where Serbia has a share of capital. It will appear that Serbia has no interest in protecting its natural goods and resources at the research stage if this supplement we are proposing is not accepted. In fact, geological surveillance under this bill that must appoint an investor will mainly protect investors' interests, which is normal and expected, because it protects the interests of the one he pays. We believe that including the Geo Institute in this way can enable it to just protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia, because it is as a state institution in the Republic's budget and in the right way protects the interests of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment has been rejected because it is said that the Institute is engaged, i.e. it is doing only applied geological research done by economic operators and carried out by researchers. But not to complicate things, you simply rejected our amendment and we believe that the control of the Republic of Serbia in this case is also not properly represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40699	Thank you. The 17th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the chairman of today's session in this part, Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Minister Antić and the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, firstly, Mr Arsenovic, I congratulate you for having fought to chair a little session of the National Assembly. I haven't been able to sign up for a word in a while and you give me your word, Mr. Arsenovic. I hope that this opportunity now will focus on a little re-launching dialogue, debate, on different approaches on the same issue, gentlemen. The amendment to Article 17, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I am one of the few unaccepted amendments, and I want to say very clearly here both Minister Antić and guests from the ministry, for a reason not accepted amendment. So, we read very carefully this text of the law, suspected that there was a possibility of discrepancies in Article 17 with some other laws that were in force, as soon as we recorded that doubt, of course the amendment, as I think it is order, as is similar to one MP, or in this case two MPs, wrote one explanation and read this morning an explanation for not accepting and saw that there were no discrepancies. If there is a discrepancy, gentlemen, then there is doubt in the rule of law. If there's any doubt in the rule of law, it's a dangerous situation. We have eliminated all the dilemmas, there is no doubt in the rule of law and there is no obstacle, to say once again – that we have one chance today to talk about a very good legislative project. I will, of course, continue to discuss all the amendments that we People's MPs of the New Party, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Arsenovic, have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40701	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic, but I still have to, just one sentence to say... (Vladimir Pavicevic: More sentences, too, Mr Arsenovic. No, I don't have the right to do that, but for the sake of the public. There's no fighting here who's going to chair. Please. It is neither fair nor correct to all my fellow vice presidents, we simply agree when anyone will preside depending on their busyness, or the possibilities, so I ask you to understand our presidency in that sense. Anyone else want a word? (No) Thank you. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balin Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. Here you are, MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40702	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40703	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm talking to this same amendment. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that this amendment has become a draft law. Here you go, MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40704	Thank you, Vice President. I will use the time of the parliamentary group and tell you Mr. Ministers with associates, the honourable MPs this has been one of the amendments that we have passed on to, concerning the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and on the entrusted affairs of the AP Vojvodina. The amendment reads - in Article 17 of the proposal for this law after Article 2, a new position 3 is added, which reads: "Autonomic province is funded by basic geological research in the territory of the Autonomous Province". In the same Article 17, the proposal for a law after Article 3 is added to the new position 4 which reads: “The work of Article 3 of this Article shall be carried out as confidential. ” Why did we submit this amendment? We wanted to agree on a draft law on mining and geological research, with the Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which stipulates that the AP Vojvodina through its authorities in the field of geological research, in accordance with the law, finance basic geological research in the territory of the AP Vojvodina according to the annual programme, basic geological research. The relevant Mining and Geological Research Act in Article 17(3) and (4) is proposed in a way that regulates the issue, the financing of basic geological research in the territory of the AP Vojvodina as a confidential business, which is in accordance with the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you again for accepting this amendment, and then we'll talk to you on the second amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40705	The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balin Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that this amendment has become a draft law. Here you are, MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40706	Thank you. This is the second amendment that we have transferred, which is regarding the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, is also a confidential business. These two amendments we've submitted are logically connected and we thought, if you've respected one, you'd respect our other amendment. Thank you again for accepting. I will read what it is and why we have submitted this amendment and what it is. In Article 20(4), point (b) is replaced by the following: The draft law is amended as follows: "The competent authority of the AP shall adopt an annual programme in its territory, in accordance with the long-term programme". In the same article after Article 5, a new position 6 is added, which reads as follows: ‘The work of the Article 4 shall be carried out as confidential’. Why have we submitted this amendment? Given the trusted authority of the AP Vojvodina, that in the area of geological research, it is funding basic geological research in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In line with the annual programme, basic geological research, logically follows that the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina, other than financing, also brings an annual programme of basic geological research, on its territory, in line with the long-term programme. The bill stipulates that the competent authority of the AP proposes part of a long-term programme on its territory, in line with the regional spatial plan AP, plans and programmes for sustainable use of natural resources and goods, as well as the strategy. This amendment, which we have proposed, proposes to maintain the provision laid down in Article 20(3) of the applicable Mining and Geological Research Act. Thank you again for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40707	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted the 20th amendment. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40708	I just want to point out that this amendment has been rejected to us, but on the grounds that it is not accepted, because the amendment to Article 20(4) has been accepted. The draft laws passed by the MPs, our colleagues from SVM, Balint Pastor and the other MPs, so we will simply consider that our amendment has been adopted, and the only comment on the amendment under number 17 that has been adopted, and it refers to the financing by Vojvodina, I just wonder, that is, the LSDV parliamentary group, with which means the province will finance it, given that the budget for the coming year is still reduced, so I don't know where we'll find these funds, but thank you for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40709	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Milicevic and Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that this amendment has become a draft law. On the 28th amendment with the correction, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Milicevic and Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that this amendment has become a draft law. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that this amendment has become a draft law. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President and Chairman of today's session in this part, Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Ministers Antić and the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, first of all you, Mr Arsenovic, however, I am pleased to say that I am glad that you have fought to chair the National Assembly session today. That's how I see it. Now let me move on to the amendment that we People's MPs of the New Party have submitted to Article 29 of this bill. I think it's time to remind ourselves that this is one of the 17 accepted amendments to our People's MPs of the New Party, which is why we, to hear from other MPs' groups, especially from the SNS, have crossed one percent that was borderline to us, which is 9% support in the electoral body. It is important to hear here and the citizens to hear the citizens of our Republic, and what was our explanation for this amendment to Article 29, which was accepted entirely by the legislator. We have written that it is envisaged that, in the course of years of research, every year a report is submitted within the time limit of a certain research authorisation, and logically, by our court, that the deadline should be determined equally for all entities, without arbitral decision in individual cases of authorisation. So we felt that arbitration in this sense, as planned, should not exist. We have announced that the amendment is that the deadline is set to be 30 days from the end of each year of the survey, in accordance with the deadline for the submission of the final report referred to in Article 28. It's a bill of law. The bill promoter has respected our argument and I can only congratulate you on one appropriate response to our very good argument for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40711	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. For your information, I chaired Friday.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40712	But you're holding the presidency for a long time today, Mr. Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40713	Now I'm sorry I came. Parliamentarian Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Dr Blagoje Bradic together. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honored Ministers with Associates, the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party-ZZS and the PGI have submitted an amendment to Article 31 and that amendment, not to read all the views, has stated in those final views that he has provided that the competent authority of the local self-government unit can be associated with other units of local self-government to carry out the tasks set out in Article 1 of this article and informs the ministry accordingly. In the event that the competent authority of the local self-government unit does not begin to carry out the entrusted work or does not perform it properly or in good time, the ministry, or the competent authority of the AP, shall take over the tasks referred to in Article 1(1). The competent authority and units of local self-government shall provide annual reports to the ministry on the approved geological research appropriations, the transactions referred to in Article 1 shall be carried out as confidential transactions. I have read only part of this amendment, here we have been given in the explanation of one such extreme routine response that says – the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments to Article 9 and it refers to a visible lack of confidence in the local self-government units to entrust them with one job. I have deliberately read the end of this amendment, because in it we have predicted that the irresponsibility of the local self-government unit cannot be and, if it is, the ministry would have the instruments to sanction this irresponsibility very effectively and quickly. I don't understand why so much mistrust, because units of local self-government, when it comes to non-metallic mineral research, which I don't know what, how much to endanger the country's rights and interests, as well as thermal waters, etc., and by providing for use, or management, planning is increasing, the capacity of local self-government both in the planning of the green budget and, let me say, a routine participation in managing such extremely important resources. So there are no municipalities, or units of local self-government in Serbia, there are none that are the same with each other, they are different. We also have positive examples of the unit of local self-government, so here, the units of local self-government from which I encourage, Svilajnac, who in the last eight years has made the most progress in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in all areas, why would we apriori law prevent local self-government units, if they find that there are opportunities and resources in their territory, to prevent them from being properly available to them, under the control of the ministry and to be controlled very effectively in using it with annual reports. I think that centralisation in this sense leaves one strong impression, that I'm not talking, that's unpopular, but Belgrade, Vojvodina and other Serbia, when local self-government in central Serbia will have the opportunity to develop, so that even one Svilajnac becomes the next day of size such as Jagodina and Nis? It will not have the opportunity unless it has the right to have certain resources that will bring them additional goods, which will enable them to develop in an adequate way as modern cities and thus have in terms and protection of the environment, because here it seems to me that trees do not see. There's mostly talk of exploitation, and it doesn't matter, and there's too much talk about what's left behind that exploitation. I think you could have accepted this amendment and we didn't have to get this routine explanation that comes down to high school level.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40715	Thank you. The 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. The People's Messenger Sabina Dazdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40716	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, this amendment provides for a greater update of the unit of local self-government in order to create a more favourable environment for research, and this includes local self-government, since you have deprived them of the right to decide on the research of mineral and other geological resources, and this amendment tries to continue to be involved in the process of exploiting mineral geological resources in the territory of their administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40717	Thank you. National MP Milenko Zivkovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40718	Thank you. In Article 34(3), paragraph 7), I provided for the addition of consent to the approval of the researcher in the immediate environment or at the border with its exploitation field. I'm withdrawing this amendment. Namely, I checked, since the RTB exploitation field is surrounded by all other researchers, practically RTB would not have the opportunity to give consent, and possibly by adopting this amendment, it would give the right to those who surrounded me to continue granting approval. For that reason, I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40719	Thank you. Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the now respected president of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, welcome, distinguished Ministers Antića and respected guests and guests from the Ministry, I told Mr Gojkovic that he had fought well for a time and was very soon out of the hall, but, Mrs Gojkovic, and you are welcome to chair the meetings of the National Assembly, there is no dilemma. The amendment to Article 37, which we, the People's MPs of the New Party, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have submitted, is one of the 17 amendments accepted. This amendment concerns the content of Article 37 in points 6 to 11, and we have prepared a very fine, precise explanation of why it is necessary to amend Article 37 in points 6 to 11 and we have already known this, honored guests and guests from the Ministry, I see that they have read it precisely, placed it in one, two, three, four, five, six, seven parameters of this text. We have almost prepared an essay task, Mrs. Tomic, to explain why it was necessary to amend this Article 37. Guests and guests from the Ministry, the minister read, accepted the explanation, and we believe that by accepting this amendment, the bill that we have established, even in the course of the principle debate, that a good bill has become even better, which, I think, is worth saying here, in connection with our amendment debate on this bill, respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40721	MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together to the 38th amendment. Do you want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Blagoje Bradic together submitted to the 40th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40722	Thank you, Madam President. We have responded in Article 40 to Article 9 which reads this way – a solution to retain the right to the investigative space under Article 4 of this Article ceases to apply with the date of application for approval for the field of exploitation. We have suggested that, after saying "days", they add the words, "subsistences for approval for the exploitation field", are replaced by the words "deliveration of a solution which has been decided on the application for approval for the exploitation field". Therefore, the solution to retain the right to an investigative space ceases to be valid, according to our proposal, on the date of delivery of the solution which has been decided on the request for approval for the exploitation field. We believe that the correct solution to retaining the right to an investigative space does not cease to be valid on the day of the application for approval for the exploitation field, but when it has been decided upon by the request for approval for the exploitation field, that is to say, to enter into the place of one solution another solution, thereby avoiding a situation of time and legal unregulated. It is explained that the amendment is not accepted for reasons as the adoption of the proposed amendment would reduce the approved period of time for the retention of the investigative space, and the timing of application for the initiation of the procedure would ensure the continuity of the conduct of the procedure and legal certainty for the applicant. We do not dispute the right to apply. We're just saying that one solution can't cease to be valid the moment the request is filed, but only when a new solution is made. One rightly established solution can cease, in our opinion, only when a new solution decides on a new right, and once again I ask you to consider this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40723	Thank you. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Do you want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the League of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 41st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 41st Amendment were submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the League of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina submitted together to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradic and Miroslav Marinkovic together submitted to the 44th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40724	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, we have submitted to the 44th Amendment, which is a perfectly reasonable solution that removes any possibility for speculative actions that could be done, which is, in Articles 44(3) and (4), deleted. We have been given an explanation that the amendment cannot be accepted for reasons because during the course of geological research, there is very often a need for a certain change in the concept of research, and in that bush lies a rabbit. So the amendment we have submitted is a task of ensuring the sustainability of the signed contract, and that the elements of this project cannot be changed as to whom it pleases. We've also had opportunities to discuss recently the Law of Law, which over the second few years, a great period of time, has come to have tens of thousands of objects that don't exist anywhere, not in the cataster, not in other documents that are important, and so on. We can, without doubting the legislator's well-intention, but there is an opportunity for you to make contracts, that is to say, to submit projects that have an element of research that gives consent, and then extends to various annexes, so you from the bungalows in Zlatibor get to the hotel. I got a little figurative. However, in the explanation you gave us, there is little greater seriousness in trying to explain ourselves. I'm fully aware that these geological research has a certain trail of things, but it doesn't deal with the layman, and we're not naive to think that someone who wants to do geological research in our space came to try. They are well informed, using state-of-the-art technologies, through various forms of scanning and land and certain examinations and intelligence data, which can be obtained about this area and this interest through a particular project must be decidently explained and cannot be changed and that is the objective of this amendment. In response, you did not fully convince us that it was enough for someone to have good intentions or that what he wrote was thoughts. It's usually not like that, at least not with us in this country. So I ask you, on behalf of the entire parliamentary group, that is, Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, Green Serbia, to reconsider the amendment, if possible and to accept it. If not, I would ask fellow Members of the People to understand and accept what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40725	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40726	We are extremely responsible for all rights of inquiry. I would use this moment to answer Mrs. Karavidic about what we talked about in the debate in principle, and about this whole system of permits. Mrs. Karavidic presented the information, I think Mr. Djurisic repeated it several times, that in the preparation of this law, the Ministry has not abolished the solution to the investigative rights that existed so far and that we have made some composition in the preparation of the new law. Just a little bit of statistics, please note, this is absolutely public data that we can give under full responsibility. If we look at the period 2011 and 2012, for example when Mr. Zlatko Dragosavljevic was an assistant who dealt with these affairs. In 2011, one solution on geological research was abolished and nine requirements were rejected, one solution was also abolished in 2012 and four solutions on the rejection of geological requirements were issued. So, you remember, one off, nine and four denied. 2014 and 2015 In 2014, 17 solutions abolished, received ten requests. In 2015 29 solutions abolished, 13 requests received. So, in these two years, if we go about the abolished solutions, 46 solutions have been abolished, and in 2011 and 2012, two solutions. So, if it was ever serious and responsible and controlled, is all the conditions laid down by our solutions to carry out investigative activities that are this 2014/2015 year, because it's just amazing to me that in 2011 and 2012, it was all so brilliant and great that there was no need to abolish the solution. You'll agree to 46 and 2 is 23 times more. It's just proof that it's far greater and more serious control in the entire system regarding investigative rights and activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40727	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40728	Thank you, Madam President. I have the right as a MP to express my suspicion. What you've just said may be something we should talk about in the tide. The law was passed in November, signed by the president of the state in December and the first solutions were issued in January 2012. You'll admit that the shorter period of time during which the Secretary of State mentioned it was in the Ministry of Mining than the figures you told me. So I'm not arguing. As a MP, I have expressed my doubts about Article 38, and I have the right to do so. I hope you're not mad at me for that. I just want to ask you if there's something hiding behind the hill in these new changes, or in this new law. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40729	Thank you. Members of the 44th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40730	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers Antića and the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, the amendment to Article 44, one of, to remind once again, 17 of the accepted amendments by our People's MPs of the New Party. I also read the amendments submitted by other MPs from other parliamentary groups and parties also noticed this intervention, which was just spoken of by Mr Marinkovic and Mrs Karavidic. There's one thing that got my attention especially, and I think we should give her extra attention. This was about two types of ethics. Ethics of intent and ethics of responsibility. I think it's very important for our congregation debates to distinguish between these two types of coins. Ethics of intent, and here I think it was clear and said, but once again to clarify, I don't think it should be relevant for our debates here, because who is who can define himself as a judge, arbitr to say – well, you see, this man had such intent, he has that intention, and then to tell us on the basis of such intentions there will be consequences and such. Well, that's nowhere to be found. We are interested in politics, primarily ethics of responsibility. Sometimes, honored gentlemen, bad intentions can produce a good effect. And we in politics are always interested in the consequences of some action. These consequences are always about concepts of responsibilities ethics. I'm here, I mean a strong advocate of exactly that concept. Ethics of responsibility, so your policy action is measured by results. Since we have 17 amendments accepted, then I don't think there's any dilemma about the result at least for this bill and for us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40731	Thanks, it's been a while. Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, rarely happens that I can speak here on two occasions in a row here in the National Assembly, even though I've tried it many times. Dear Minister Antić and distinguished guests from the ministry, it is very important that after we have resolved this issue of ethics relations of intent and ethics of responsibility, to focus Minister Antic and I think that your team has recorded it very well here, a very important concept regarding respect for the greatest principle of every modern democracy, including our country, which is the principle of rule of law. We have suggested that in Article 47, point 1 be deleted and we have called, when it comes to principled approach to a large principle called the principle of legal certainty. We've explained how it would have happened, that if the contents of this point were kept, of this attitude, how it was proposed to question not necessarily, but potentially legal certainty for someone carrying out the research, and then we can later resort to exploitation. Of course, here we've read, we've put all of this into five parameters, I mean very precisely explained and the answer has come to accept our amendment based on the reasons we've given. I express one great pleasure that not only is the work of MPs who are dedicated to reading the drafts of the law, they are writing amendments, but one element of this great principle that has been defined in Article three of the Constitution of our Republic, which is a great principle of rule of law. I believe that this principle should always be a guide for our work and in this Assembly, but also for God's work in the executive branch of government, such as the Serbian Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40733	Thank you. Members of the LSV parliamentary group submitted together to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the LSV parliamentary group submitted together to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the LSV parliamentary group submitted together to Article 50 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the LSV parliamentary group submitted together to Article 57 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Blagoje Bradić together. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40734	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, Mr Minister with fellow Members, we are and I will list the amendments to which we have received the same answer as it says – the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments to Article 9, that is 58, 59, 61, 62, 68, 71 and 73. Since our relationship with our amendments is so simplified that we compare, it means that not even one reasonable answer can be given, they all refer to giving greater authority to local self-government units. I would like to appeal to all the MPs, we are all delegates who come from all over our country and we will return to our units, in the middle of where we are, and you need to give tomorrow an explanation to your fellow citizens, let's say in Vranjska Banja where there are thermal sources, let's say, we've listed some other places, I don't want to put anyone in a subordinate position. You will get the question – why, in part, those resources that are there, the trail of things, and in life, most of all, I get certain circumstances and the most important things happen. Now, you've found yourself in this municipality where there are natural resources, and you can't afford to be a local self-government unit at least part of it. This law is just predicting it, and I'm not going to report for these next members that I've listed for reasons I don't think there's any point, because the simplified answer speaks a lot more about the relationship between who wrote it than the representatives of the citizens to the matter we're dealing with. I ask you to understand that unless the ministry accepts these amendments, one reasonable relationship between all of us MPs, representatives of the citizens of this country, that you will win by voting for these amendments that will provide the possibility that you, in your local units of local self-government of the larger, smaller, whatever opportunity you get to develop your beautiful city, your beautiful environment and that you have much better conditions for a longer life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40735	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Blagoja Bradic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62, the amendment, with correction, was brought together by MPs Marko Djurisic, academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 64th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40736	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers of Antić, the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, the President of the National Assembly, told here precisely that our amendment to Article 64 of this proposal was accepted and that all MPs in the day of the vote, when they voted in favour of this bill in full, will vote for this part that we have offered as amendments to this bill. I was faced when preparing and discussing amendments to this bill with proposals that someone acting as an opposition should always vote against those proposed by the executive authority, i.e. the government. And I, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have thought about whether this is the right approach to act in our National Assembly, even when it comes to good proposals, good ideas to vote against? I think it is very important for this debate where we have managed to correct the bill to adopt 17 of our amendments, I think it is important that it is particularly important that here that all of us here, all 250 of us, have committed ourselves to serving the truth and to serve the justice and interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is true for those MPs who are in opposition, and by my court and approach that means that when we face a good bill we should vote for this bill whoever is who, and that is why, gentlemen, I think it is appropriate here and repeatedly to say that something that is good is good and it is good that it deserves support no matter what we stay, we will be, and we were probably the strongest opposition to this poor government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40737	Thank you. National MP Milinko Zivkovic submitted to the 65th amendment. The word is made by MP Milinko Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40738	I, the Honorable Chairman of Article 65, predicted that Article 2 would add the position 3 which reads – the exploitation of the strategic mineral raw materials referred to in Article 4(2) of this Act can also be carried out through a strategic partnership with the participation of the strategic partner at a maximum of 49%. In fact, the state should never give up the majority ownership of goods it listed as strategic raw materials, but in the absence of investment funds, investments, as well as investment speeds, a strategic partnership can be allowed up to 49% of the participation of the strategic partner. In any case, the state must always seek to keep strategic raw materials from the position of the fourth member, from this law to remain the majority owner. On the other hand, a strategic partner can be given a majority management right where he invests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40739	Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Milinko Zivkovic. The word is made by MP Milinko Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40740	In Article 66 following Article 4, a new position of 5 is added, which reads — For the purposes of an economic operator who is a research operator and a carrier of the exploitation of mineral raw materials in the field of exploitation, which are defined as raw materials of strategic importance, within the meaning of Article 1, the competent authority of the municipality shall expropriate immovableity in accordance with the adopted spatial development solutions of the Space Plan of the area of specific purpose, and in particular in accordance with the solutions of exploitation from the investment and technical documentation. This amendment actually verifies the full validity of the solution from the Spatial Plan of Special Purpose in cases where it is necessary to conduct the expropriation on the intended space and to allow preparatory work to begin exploitation and development of mining works in accordance with project solutions from mining projects. This provides the planned dynamics of the realization and development of mines without the influence of individuals or blackmail under the Expropriation Act. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40741	Nine MPs from Boris Tadic, SDS, submitted together to the 68th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milinko Zivkovic. The word is made by MP Milinko Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40742	In Article 70 paragraph 1 after point 6 I would add a point 7) that reads – Consent to grant approvals under Article 68 of this Act by foreign persons engaged in exploitation pursuant to Article 4(4). Namely, it is envisaged that the approval of the exploitation field is intended to provide for the approval of companies or legal entities engaged in the exploitation of strategic raw materials for areas bordering their exploitation fields. This protects the interests of companies that already have developed technology, mining equipment and trained personnel, and therefore have and is justified that such companies have the right to give consent to exploitation in areas in the immediate environment or on the border with their exploitation fields, if they are not able to provide their own exploitation. If we don't have enough money, and it's not just about RTB and giving consent to exploitation rights, it's about some other companies. The law stipulates that explicit consent to exploitation rights should be given to one who has practically had an investigative right. I don't think that's good. If RTB right now, I'm talking about RTB, there's no money, maybe they'll have a future or some other way. Or even worse, why can't you give exploitation rights by the state, or offer that people participate in the tender? Maybe two or three foreign companies will show up. These two or three foreign companies will give different conditions for exploitation and we will take that company that offers better conditions for the state. I thought this was all about losing the state, because whoever's a self-searcher and then doing the exploitation will simply be in a position to do what he thinks is best, and the market can say something else. The market will say that another company will give much more favourable conditions for exploitation for the country itself. This further means that there was also a need to include security for the good performance of the business in the exploitation of these companies. One company that only participates in the exploitation will only be interested in its objectives, not the interests of the state. For that reason, I think it's good that this changes and that they simply have a share in the exploitation and other factors and then each one of their own. Whoever invested in the previous period and failed in the tender for exploitation will return to it, and it will be the most useful thing for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40743	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 71st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Zoran Babic, Vladimir Orlic, Milos Tosanic, Aleksandar Jovičić, Aleksandar Markovic, Vera Paunovic, Dr Branislav Blažic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 71st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Master of Dr Blagoja Bradic together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40744	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is another in a series of amendments that are identical, and those proposed by colleagues from some other parliamentary groups have been accepted. So it's totally irrelevant whose amendment was accepted, but it's a good thing we all noticed that the protection space around the exploitation field was too wide, and you reacted by accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40745	Thank you. Nine MPs to the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 72nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Nine MPs to the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the amendment of the 73rd. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Master of Dr Blagoja Bradic together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40746	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a member talking about what is necessary for the authorisation to be granted for exploitation, i.e. everything needed to be obtained with a request for authorisation for exploitation, so that, at point 12, potential researchers are asked to apply the rights of guarantees of a bank or a bond or a corporate guarantee for the execution of recovery and recycling of degraded land. We intervened in this section by modifying this point of Article 12(2), and it should according to our proposal – evidence of the deposited security fund and the deposit of the note, proof of the bank's guarantee, corporate guarantees, the deposit of money, state securities of value, or by placing a pawnage right on equipment or other movements of things, or by putting a mortgage on immovableity. We've changed attitude 3 and said that the kind of security funds set out in item 2 of point 12 of this article, as well as the conditions and method of deposit, is closer to regulating the Government by means of its act. In this way, we believe that security funds should be extended to some other types of security, as this allows investors to choose more security funds, whether in terms of cash, state securities of value, by placing a hostage right on equipment or other immovable property or other mobile items. So, I think our solution is better, more comprehensive and wider, and all in order for that potential investor not only to be limited to the bond and guarantee of a bank or corporate guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40747	Thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I cannot take the impression, because we and this article in item 1, besides these other things, have mentioned and added that the exploitation of non-metallic mineral raw materials to obtain construction materials and exploit mineral resources to obtain natural resources, etc., but we have added – in addition to the competent authority of the autonomous province or unit of local self-government. So, it's completely unclear why local self-government is maximumly excluded from this law, as if it doesn't exist. It is a constitutional category and has certain competences with the Constitution guaranteed, and in this way virtually deprives the opportunity to show its ability and attract investors. From some experience of working in local self-government, I can tell you that for a local self-government of 150 workers, it means 50 families. It means a lot. It may not mean much to the state, but even these various forms of security will become one good attraction and I'm telling you from experience. Where we provided more opportunities, there were more interested investors. Those securitys that exist are laid down by law. So they don't favor any of them, but they provide an opportunity to choose some kind of security for this kind of exploitation, which is why we make this job closer to someone. Once again, I ask that units of local self-government be respected by these amendments, and by the end you will have more amendments where you have completely excluded units of local self-government that have the right to use what God has given them on their territory. The story of using in the interest of all citizens is not at all questionable. Here is the question of one, so to speak, the supremacy of the government that is trying to give the ministry responsible for this job the opportunity to decide itself, without respecting and without including local self-governments that could have significant incomes and significantly improve their work and their incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40749	Thank you, Dr. Marinkovic. Nine MPs of the Boris Tadic group submitted together to the 79th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 80th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Nine MPs of the Boris Tadic group submitted to the 81st amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Nine MPs of the Boris Tadic group submitted together to the 82nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 85th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and master of Dr Blagoja Bradic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40750	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The following logic that I made earlier, which relates to Article 77, Article 103 assumes, in detail, what is necessary for the issue of approval for the construction of mining facilities. Since we have intervened in Article 77 on the guarantees of those investors who want to invest, we have, in turn, changed that in Article 103(1), paragraph 11, where instead of saying: "change or proof of the guarantee of a bank or a corporate guarantee", we are saying: "proof of the deposited security fund. “ Article 2 also suggested that changes be made, and it would read: “The security of item 1 of point 11 of this article can be provided by laying down a note, proof of the bank’s guarantee, the corporate guarantee, the deposit of money, the state securities of value, or by placing a claim on equipment and other movable things, or by putting a mortgage on immovableity. ” We have also changed attitude 3 and it should now read: “The type of security funds provided for in Article 2, as well as the conditions and manner of their deposit, is closer to the government by its act. ” Art. Four, five and six are deleted. Once again, I suggest that the representatives of the Ministry take a good look at this amendment of ours, because I think with our proposal, we have given a broad range of security to those investors who want to invest by not only limiting ourselves to m bills, but we have foreseen state securities of value, money, mortgages on immovable property, and I think our solution is far better than what is given and which is simply restrictive. Just by saying in attitude 3 that the type of security funds under item 2, as well as the conditions and method of their depositing, is closer to the government by its act, I think there is the possibility that some other kind of security, which we may have dropped, might be added. Once again, I ask you to take a good look at our amendment to this article and to Article 77. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40751	Thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to Article 104 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Nine MPs from the Boris Tadic group submitted together to the 105th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Nine MPs of the Boris Tadic group submitted together to the 107th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Nine MPs of the Boris Tadic group submitted together to Article 111 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Nine MPs of the Boris Tadic group submitted to the 112th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarevic, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the amendment 129. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 149th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 150th amendment. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40752	Thank you, Vice President. In Article 150. The bill after the words "gas" are added: "or on individual oil and gas wells as well as geothermal wells". We explained why, and in the amendment in Article 157. The draft law relating to concession contracts is replaced by the words "Article 49 of this Act". In Article 2, following the words, "Serbia" is stuck and words are added: "The AP budget and budgets of the local self-government unit when geological research is carried out on its territory", and here we think of local self-government and the Autonomous province of Vojvodina. The following fees shall be added after Article 3(4) and (5), which shall be paid for the research and production of strategic mineral raw materials defined in Article 4 of this Act: for the area of the research space, for the area of exploitation, for the conclusion of the contract, for the quantity produced, for the exploitation achieved, for the administrative costs and for the division of production. “ The allocation of the compensation referred to in Article 1(1) shall be subject to the provisions of Article 160(6) of this Law. We stated in the explanation that item 1 – the information for the documentation can become state property on a number of grounds, so it is not necessary to define the basis for acquisition, especially if the budget is taken into account. The new sections 4 and 5 are defined by the Regulation on the fee for the exploration and exploitation of the carbons of the Republic of Croatia. If one of the objectives of the bill is to increase the inflow into the budget, this is an opportunity to do so in the way EU members have arranged. If compensations were submitted in 2014 for a new position of 5, only the fee for oil and gas would increase the Republic of Serbia's budget's revenues by around 19.6 billion dinars. This amount is greater than the total increase in pensions and salaries granted by the IMF for 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40753	Thank you. On point 7. in Chapter IX and Art. 154, 155 and 156 amendments were submitted jointly by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40754	I am extremely sorry that Mrs. Comic is not here right now. If it follows the transmission, I'd like to have a direct dialogue on this matter. I have to say that for the past two days I've been exposed to a rather unpleasant campaign in the media on account of a member of the law that tangs strike and certain criminal provisions for those who conduct this strike in caves and other places that are dangerous to the lives and health of miners and insinuations that this is some new legal text that this government is proposing in this law. One, that's completely incorrect. It is about the identical legal text in the Law that has existed since 1995, which survived the amendments, the new law in 2005, the amendments to the law in 2006, then in 2009 and finally the last Law adopted in 2011, it seems to me, at the proposal of Mr Oliver Dulic, from whose text was absolutely translated, from word to word, with signs of interpretation. So no one invented anything that's rigid and dragonish to the miners, but a legal formulation that's been in force for 20 years. For the matter to be even more interesting, the amendments, which were also the bearers of the mini campaign, were MPs who voted for the same text of the law in 2011, Mrs Vukkovic, Mrs Comic and Mrs Jerkov. So in 2011, when you're part of the ruling coalition, you vote for an identical text, and in 2015, when you're not, wood and stones in front of the connoisseurs of identical text. What I'm still trying to say, and that's what I'm going to end up with, we haven't had a single comment on this text from the relevant mining unions and associations. Two -- for the past 20 years there have been seven serious mining strikes in mines across the country. Under three – this means that no one deprives the right of miners to fight for their rights and strike, but only this right is limited from the point of view of protecting their lives and their health. And finally, I call on those who once voted in favour of the text, for the second time campaign against the text, that if they already care about miners, they take care of one honest, consistent and fair way, not to force them into holes, pits and places where they are threatened by life and health, because I believe that it is not in the interest of any of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40755	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40756	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I think the Government has given a very clear explanation when it comes to this amendment, but for one reason that can be heard in public these days, there is a lot of abuse of that story. I want to draw attention to the government once again that it must not give up a responsible relationship when it comes to this area and protecting the rights of miner workers. The miners have the right to strike, personally me and my party support this right, but the miners have the right to health, to safety and to life, and me and my party support it even more strongly. We believe, if I may say so, it's older than the right to strike. It's not an illegal strike here, it's only forbidden where the consequences can be enormous, and we all know that in cave mines the consequences are catastrophic. The government is obliged to take all measures not to do so, for exactly the reason to protect the miners, to protect the workers. For these reasons, it should simply be said to the public, that this issue should not be misused, because if it were not so, and none of this issue has been resolved elsewhere, the government would simply be irresponsible, it would simply come to a situation that could cause catastrophic consequences, the government says – okay, do so. Once again, we strongly support this government's responsible approach to security, health and life as the highest right of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40757	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40758	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, regarding this member, I simply need to point out the debate that has been under way for several days and to point out the evaluation of certain members and the integrity of this law which are both from the point of view of the ruling parties and from the point of view of opposition parties as very good, quality and comprehensive law. He may be unusual in some of his segments, because he has individual segments that concern other laws that address other issues, type, protection at work, environmental protection, tang a little more comprehensive, a little wider than some other laws that are specific, but are not affected by regulations relating to these issues, e.g. protection at work or protection of the environment. This law shows that it is so comprehensive, significant and covers a wide area in which more segments must be protected, more segments covered and specifically regulated, so this applies equally to this issue of strike for which I support this position absolutely, that it has to be more precisely regulated. Since the important conditions in which work takes place, the specific conditions in which the right to strike is given are important, must be regulated and property and human life must be regulated. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40759	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40760	Dear President-in-Office, honourable ministers, I will tell you that the topic on which this amendment was presented began essentially on the Committee on European Integration, which was proposed on Friday 27 November. I don't think there were enough representatives of the ministries at this point who understood this topic from this legal point of view. So it was mostly the representatives of the technical profession and the mining industry. As a result, I do not think that even at that moment the proposer of this amendment has received complete information regarding the Strike Law and the Labour Act which defines the strike and the need for this part of the law to be explicitly defined when it comes to the mining profession. So, the preservation of the property of the state, the preservation of human lives, the preservation of the work process, the preservation of security and the functioning of the energy system and the operation of the mines, must be precisely defined and, of course, that the model, like all previous laws on mining, meant every politicisation, and the attempt had been since 27 November, so some entities were recognized somewhere when they heard that this proposal and amendments and interpretations were defined in a certain way. I think it only brings harm because it can't produce any use through a legal solution like this. Therefore, this amendment should not be seen at all in the manner and arguments given, but should be rejected and agreed, and it is in line with the laws that define the strike and which define the Labour and Maintenance Act which is literally related to exclusively mining. That is why I support this argument given by the minister and what my predecessors have supported in order not to adopt such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40761	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted the 157th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40762	In Article 158, item 1 after word - researcher, words are added – exploitation, and after words – resource, words are added – compensation for the exploitation field. In the post-Serbian position 4, it is stuck and added words -- the autonomous province's budget, if geological research is carried out on its territory and on the budget of the unit of local self-government. We primarily believe that the AP Vojvodina has competences in implementing over 20 members of this bill, but there are no original revenues for its implementation. How will the government of the Vojvodina exercise these important powers without financial resources, we ask through this amendment. We didn't get an answer because there's a completely different answer to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40763	Thank you. Members of the 158th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to Article 159 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40764	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 159 speaks of the levels of fees on shale, oil, gas, and other minerals used, or exploited. So by proposing this law, the government added to this article the 9th position on which we have the objection. She says – the way in which the payment of the debt is paid and the terms and conditions of payment based on the compensation provided for in Article 1 is determined by the Government. I have not yet seen the system law, and I believe that this is the system law which states that the Government, in which they are called practically, or encouraged by all economic operators, does not regularly pay compensation for the use of mineral raw materials, by this position of this member. We believe that part of this attitude should be deleted so that the position of the 9th member should be read- the way in which the compensation referred to in Article 1 of this Article is paid is determined by the Government. Otherwise, all debts, which I suppose are part of the problems facing the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should be resolved in a completely different way, should be made a debt reprogramme with economic operators, which owe compensation for the use of mineral raw materials. I'm sorry, I'm a third term already an MP, but I've never seen debt legalized before. No one escapes that debt exists, but it had to be resolved in a completely different way, so I suggest a variety of debt reprogrammes. So that's just inadmissible. Moreover, I am sorry that there is no minister, in principle we talked about the percentage of the fee for the use of mineral raw materials, and he provided data on the amount of the amount paid to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I didn't ask him in the principle debate about the amount of the sum, but I asked him what percentage of the collection of economic operators dealing with the exploitation of mineral raw materials and I'm interested in how the state thinks he's making up for the units of local self-government all the outstanding debts in terms of compensation for the use of mineral raw materials. I come from the Municipality of Majdanpek where RTB Bor has been irregularly paying compensation for the use of mineral raw materials for years, and the justification for this has been obtained from the Privatisation Agency RTB Bor is in the phase of restructuring, but whether the debt that RTB Bor has according to the municipality of Bor and Majdanpek municipality will be paid in some way by some kind of repositories or whatever. I'm sorry there's no minister to give me an answer to this question, but I hope the question will hear, so I'll probably come up with those answers later in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40765	Thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. Members of the 159th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40766	But to ensure the minister's presence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40767	Minister, make sure he's present, here's the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40768	Present, it's good. So, the essence of this amendment is that the ore is raised from 7% now to 10%, realistically it has already said that more than once, in Serbia 3%, because the agreement on the sale of NIS on the gift of NIS Gazprom obliges that the mine rent be 3%, in their case, and there are no other exploiters. The arguments for, or which should allow the amendment to be accepted, are given in one place, the trend of equalising the rate, the countries that had more prescribed rates for crude oil, the reduction to 12%, and the countries with a lower rate of correction upwards is noticeable. We suggest from 7% to 10%. You justify saying no, by saying it should be 12%. We can check now, that it is, if you accept it, of course, it can't do business, but I think it's a bad excuse. We have very little income from that rent. They will not increase without amending the law and redefining the treaty with Gazprom. There are reasons to redefine the treaty with Gazprom, because there was no construction of the South Stream that was a condition for giving NIS to them, so I think by adopting this amendment and raising the rate to 10%, it would be the first step in the process. On the other hand, just once again, in Russia, there's a mining rent for crude oil 22%. This means that Gazprom in Serbia pays more than seven times lower ore rent than in Russia. It's a paradox that's out of every comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40769	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40770	In Article 159(2), point 2 is replaced by 10%. So the LSDV MPs suggested that the mine rent be 10%. Let me just say that your answer can't be that we voted in favour of an energy agreement with Russia, because the MPs in that LSDV mandate saw that the agreement and the donation of NIS to the Russian Federation was wrong, so we have been pushing from the very beginning for the Russian Federation, although the oil industry has already bowed down to them, that the mining rent is higher, not 3%, as it was in that initial agreement that we signed with them. That's why I'm saying that if we've already donated it, that the Russian Federation has obligations to us, since it's exhausting our oil to the end, and Vojvodina is going to run out of oil, certainly in 15 years, it's going to be dry springs, that our mining rent is 10%, with it rising from 7% even to 10%.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40771	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40772	First of all, I must remind the honourable Members of the people, that during the debate in principle, I have indicated that the Ministry of Finance is under way in the preparation of the law on fees, which will be in one special way and by special law set out all fees, their amounts charged by the Republic of Serbia, including those for the exploitation of our mineral raw materials, and that, on the other hand, the experiences of the countries in the environment are very different. We usually observe the maximum rates that can be applied in countries, which we view as reference, Romania, Hungary, completely neglecting the fact that their legislation prescribes corrective factors that affect the calculation of mines, depending on the type, characteristics, bearings, scope of exploitation, the level of prices left behind, the levels of profit rates achieved, the volume of production, etc. In Romania, de facto oil fees range from 3.5% to 13.5%. In Hungary, the basis is 12%, but in certain cases it comes down to 0% when it comes to new sites and new technologies. I just want to say that this is about one complex way and methodology, how it should be seen in the future. What's going on today is the fact that we really have this energy agreement with the Russian Federation. The agreement does not stipulate that the mine rent is 3%. The mine rent was 3% in 2007 at the time when it was agreed, and on the other hand, we made an agreement that we couldn't change any of these procedures during the investment cycle, whether taxes, fees, and so the change of the mining rent in 2011 to 7%, was just one letter on paper, and nothing caused it. And today, if I accept or accept 10% of the government, we have to tell the citizens of Serbia that this fee would still be 3%. We can make whatever decision we want today, the fee will be 3%, because we have committed ourselves to this by the Energy Agreement, and while this Energy Agreement is in force, that fee will be 3% because international contracts, international agreements above our legislation, and you are all longer MPs than I am and you have far more experience than I am, and you know that. I fully respect this, understand as a political tribune and understand that it is your right, and our obligation to act responsibly and to respect what this Parliament adopted and ratified in 2008.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40773	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Paulovina. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. You're not mentioned, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic: It was clear... Mrs. Papuga, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40774	Of course, this law also provides for the introduction of new investors so that you need to be very careful what contracts will be signed, with the fact that, here we have a very negative experience of signing a contract with the Russian Federation, that we will know whether to ever correct it. Since new investors are coming to us, it all comes down to being sold out in some way, we shouldn't go at those rates as we went about selling NIS to the Russian Federation. That's why, even after these contracts were signed, when the oil industry was bowing down to the Russians, it was very thoughtful, and then we were against it, because we knew what was waiting for us in the long run.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40775	Thank you, Mrs. Papuga. Mr. Zivkovic, neither did Mrs. Papuga, but she had time from the parliamentary group to talk about the amendment. I have no way of giving you the right to speak because we cannot go back to the previous amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic to Article 159. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to the 160th amendment. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40776	In Article 160(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The bill, after the word "development", adds the word "geology". Item 6 is amended and it reads: "When the exploitation is carried out in the territory of the AP funds achieved in accordance with Article 159 of this Law, the compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and geothermal resources of 20% is the income of the Republic of Serbia at 40% of the income is the budget of local self-government on whose territory is exploited, and 40% is the income of the AP." As for the proposal for an addition to Article 2, we underline that this is about a draft law on mining and geological research and not just mining. Without developed geology, it's only a matter of time before mining disappears. Given that each exploitation carries also the decommissioning of exploited areas, as well as the destruction of road infrastructure, i.e. a certain degree of disturbance of living conditions and standard of population, it is appropriate to distribute it in a proposed way, as the funds are achieved on the basis of compensation for the use of mineral raw materials are precisely intended to improve the living conditions of local self-government. So we have determined and proposed an amendment that 20% be the income of the Republic of Serbia, 40% of the income of local self-government and 40% of the income of the AP. We have an example of this, for example, the oil industry in Croatia has improved its local self-government, it can be seen that in those places where the springs, where oil is being dug up, that these local self-governments, that these cities and these villages are highly developed, that young people who went to school, perhaps in Zagreb or some larger places, return for reasons where they have to live, have places to work, have arranged villages and arranged cities, where this exploitation is being done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40777	Thank you. Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Ana Maria Vicek submitted to the 160th amendment. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go, Mr. Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40778	Thank you very much. We have submitted to Article 160 of this amendment and added a new position, item 7, which would read: “If the compensation for the use of mineral raw materials and geothermal resources referred to in Article 159 paragraph 2 of this Act is not realised in a fixed percentage, the resources resulting on that basis are the income of units of local self-government whose territory is being exploited. We handed over this amendment on the basis of a protocol signed by the three Vojvodina municipalities of Kanjiž, Srbobran and Kikinda, and we thought that their infrastructure was seriously compromised, and with this amendment, we thought we were increasing the income of the unit's local self-government budget. Let me tell you some of the facts that I got from the Kanjiz municipality, that in 2012 for oil rent, this municipality had an income of 350 million dinars. In this year, only 150 million dinars were paid in 2015 by December. If we look at it, the income of local self-government is double that of the last three years. That's why they signed this protocol and that's why we put or gave this amendment. Since Mr. Minister said in his statement that he understands these municipalities and that the new system law on taxes or fees will be adopted when then, I think or would suggest to Mr. Minister that he invests his authority in the making of this law, to make these local self-governments more income based on this fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40779	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40780	Three elements. First, the general one I said, we didn't enter the metricton of these provisions that tang these fees, respecting the fact that a new law is being prepared. The second paragraph, we were unable to enter at this point in any change, relations at the level of the local self-government of the AP Vojvodina, the republican budget, for the reason that, I say, the final part of the 2016 budget, the draft budget adopted at the cabinet's session, is entering parliament next week. These revenues are very precisely defined and would simply cause a disturbance in budget preparation for 2016. The third thing, really what I said when I said in principle, I want to repeat and now, I have, i.e., at the Ministry of Mining and Energy, there is a great understanding of the specificity of the situation, first of all in these three municipalities, means the Serbian, Kickinda and Kanjiž, considering that there are three municipalities where the dominant, i.e. in the most part, is exploiting that oil and gas, and because of the fact that the result is reflected in the total infrastructure in these municipalities. We are close to thinking that this fact should be respected and that it should most of the funds of this mining rental than what it is today to return to these municipalities, to return to the citizens of these municipalities and to return to the local self-government and local infrastructure, and that will be our proposal once the law on fees of the Republic of Serbia has been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40781	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40782	We understand that you have not accepted this amendment, as you have said, and now that the budget has already been prepared, it has already been adopted and thank you once again for putting this authority in or giving in to these municipalities in the new law, the system law, to get more money. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40783	Thank you. Members of the 163rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40784	Thank you. This is one of the few language amendments to this law. There's a point that correctly defines a sentence. But since I got two minutes, then I'll use them to return the minister's comments on the mine rent. It is true that in the agreement on the sale of NIS, that that year the mining rent was 3%, that it was increased to 7% without effects. Now, why don't you accept our amendment to raise it to 10%, which won't have an immediate effect on how much Gazprom will pay the mining rent. But, let's see, then let's open up a public debate whether it makes sense that instead of just half the price, Gazprom gets three times as cheap ore rent as it is under our law and stays seven times cheaper than it was before. We obviously agreed, not quite explicitly, but it's obvious that Mr. Minister and I, too, think that this NIS sales project to Gazprom was bad, and that should be determined. This does not accuse the current government, nor the current government. She wasn't even in her mind at the time that she could ever conquer you, let alone anyone was afraid of it. Therefore, there are the culprits who led this country's politics at the time. It is important because of history and because of the failure to repeat in the future that we define that it was one bad trade at national level, very bad, with the big consequences that are measured by billions and billions of dinars, maybe billions of dollars and euros, that it was then made a better arrangement, that it was sold at the right price and that money invested in the right places, there would be no need to reduce wages, pensions and that a five-year budget that has been the savings budget, not the budget of development.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40785	Thank you. The word has Minister Aleksandar Antic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40786	First of all, I don't want to say that this whole energy agreement with the Russian Federation and with Gazprom is bad for the Republic of Serbia, but as a minister who is now dealing with this problem, to point out that on today, it means 2015, and this was 2008, today 2015, there is a time distance, but from this time distance I am not the happiest of all the solutions of this agreement, and I think that the people who were then responsible and who were then leading the Republic of Serbia should have been better able to protect the interests of this country and this people, on the one hand and on the other hand, that we are now, respecting the real circumstances in which we are and the facts that are now as they are, we have to try in one wise way to make our own energy sector, for our country in these conditions as much as possible. We will certainly not do this by sticking our Russian partners in the eye, but we must do so by talking and by trying to build up a bunch of small steps in various elements and segments of that gas arrangement for our country as much as possible. Is this about our chemical complex, is it about Serbia, is it about NIS, is it about local self-government, is it about future projects, it's a bigger picture and I'm interested, Mr. Zivkovic, in such solutions. The easiest thing would be if Mr. Prime Minister and I were to say, okay 10%, and now we're banging on the chest as we raised it to 10%, and the result is zero. I'm not for having zero results, I'm for having zero results, I'm for having successes, and the successes are on a wider front.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40787	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You are mentioned, Mr. Zivkovic, but the minister replied to your statements which had nothing to do with the amendment. So, you have more amendments, so you can do the next one. Thank you. Members of the 168th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40788	As we've improved the law, this time it's lexican again, but let's go again now, to abuse time from two minutes to the benefit of the state and the people. It's that I don't think any of the fingers around anyone, especially big Russia, have any doubts, but there are grounds for redefinition and energy agreements and sales contracts. We agreed the minister and I now that the contract was bad, and that's the first time, and that's good. This is a historic moment, that someone from the current government said this was a bad deal. I support this attitude and congratulate Minister Antic on his courage. Many in this country call on the Russians as our brothers, which I fully agree with, the Russians are our brothers, with your brother not sleeping in the same bed, or living in the same house, nor do you have to listen to him, if he is older, but your brother should help you, especially if he is older, when you have a problem. I expect, with the arguments obviously shared by Minister Antic and me, to go before a Russian partner, he should be like a big brother to have an understanding of what some ignorant person or I don't know how to define that rule from 2008 did badly in the interests of a younger brother, or Serbia, or the Serbian people. Therefore, if we go that way, then the adoption of this amendment would be one small first step, which the minister is talking about, towards correcting that error, which should lead to better relations both economically and on NIS issues and generally in Russia and Serbia's relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40789	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40790	I now have more information than my colleagues, Zivkovic, and then this discussion is not fully equal, on that side. On the other hand, Mr. Zivkovic has one better position than I do because from the position of opposition MP and party chief he can comment more easily. I have to make it right. I said I wasn't happy with certain parts of that arrangement. I'm not saying he's all bad. But I repeat, and I continue to argue that I think that people who were leading the state should have been better at protecting our country's interests and I'm sorry that they didn't, but I repeat, the relations in that energy arrangement are very specific, multilayered and should not be treated partially from the point of view of whether the mining rent is 3% or 7%. It's got a wide picture. For example, in 2014, we received two billion 321 million in mines. That's about 20m euros in full. If it was 7%, it would be around 30m euros maximum. On the other hand, the fact that we don't pay for the gas delivered for the quantities agreed and not delivered is perhaps more, Mr. Zivkovic. It's just that there's one serious analysis, and this thing has to, I repeat, among partners that it's settled in agreement, talks, no politicization of this kind, no pressure on us who are in the executive government that it simply has to, and that we don't have tabloid journalism, because it has a bad effect on all major countries, including Russia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40791	Thank you. Nine members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 168th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vuckovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić and Jovana Jovanovic submitted to the 177th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 180th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President and chair of today's session, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Antić, the respected guests and guests of the ministry, we are slowly approaching the end of this debate in detail on our draft law on mining and, as I think, we could expect the greatest attention, a kind of mild awakening, we now have to discuss whether it is necessary to revise the agreements that were once signed and which we have come to on our amendments, and also an amendment to Article 180. Mr. Becic, I see you're ready to turn off my microphone, I already recognize... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40793	Here, you see, I'm going to turn off your microphone because everything you've said has nothing to do with the amendment to Article 180 point 12 where it's said to change and to read -- it's doing geological research, without research approval, Article 30(1) and Article 31(1). If you hadn't reminded me, I might not have warned you, but since you pointed me to my failure and my right to chair, I had to do it. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Mr Blagoja Bradic together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40794	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 181 falls under criminal provisions and says – with fines ranging from 1.500,000 to 3,000,000 dinars for commercial crime, a company, or another legal person and entrepreneur, will be punished if, according to the points in which cases, it lists. We have proposed that paragraph 1 be deleted from Article 1 1 because point 1 prescribes a fine for the economic offence of a company, i.e. another legal person and entrepreneurs, if, without the prescribed consent, they exploit mineral raw materials in a field where these works require special consent, and in accordance with Article 7 of this Act. Article 7. The bill reads - the researcher and the operator of the exploitation cannot be a business company, i.e. another legal person and entrepreneur who has debts based on public procurement in relation to earlier research and exploitation, illegal research, or illegal exploitation, as well as where there are unfulfilled obligations regarding the recovery and protection of the environment and cultural goods and goods that enjoy previous protection. The analysis of these provisions makes it clear that the norm set out in Article 181(1) of point 1 of this proposal is inapplicable, given that it does not in any way refer to the situation which is normalised by Article 7. The amendment was accepted on the basis of the reasons given in addition to the amendment. When a law of this magnitude is done, which regulates a very important matter, of course it can be stolen and some mistake and we've seen it and it's good that you've accepted the amendment. I'm just saying that to point out that all the time, making amendments, we had really the best intention of improving the text of the bill, because we want to create a better atmosphere and a better situation and conditions for exploiting and applying this law. Once again, I urge you to consider one more of our amendments, because I think there are other good amendments that would improve the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40795	Thank you, Mrs. Korach. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic to Article 181. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40796	Thank you. Mr. Becic, please don't turn off my microphone until I use my two minutes to explain my amendment to a certain member of the bill. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ministers Antić and the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted one amendment to Article 181. The bill and we noticed that in the position of Article 181, Mr Bečić, there is one word of surplus, and then, of course, as appropriate, we proposed to the legislators that this one word be deleted in order to contain this item, one point, of this article of the Law we were precisely set out in the Law on Mining and Geological Research. Also, we suggested to Mr. Antić that we use this debate today, on the subject of the amendment, to Article 181 to initiate the revision... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40797	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I must note that your colleague, Mr. Zivkovic, is doing much better, much better than you, Mr. Pavicevic, in today's debate. Member of the 181st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40798	Thank you very much. It is good that the representatives of the government, Minister Antic, expressed affirmatively on our assistance in the final definition of this law. Mr. Pavicevic and I will always make amendments that will go to make good laws even better, and as for who works better, whether Mr. Pavicevic or I, that would be really terrible, both for us and for this party, if you are someone who assesses who is better than the two of us. We work as a team and thank you for your observations, they're completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40799	Thank you for your compliment, Mr. Zivkovic. I only realized that in today's debate, you spoke about the subject, unlike Mr Pavicevic. If that offends you... Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ministers Antić and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, have also submitted an amendment to Article 182 paragraph 3, because we have noticed, since this has been a very large, exhausting job for all those who have dealt with the writing of certain members of this bill, that at the very end of this bill, a little bit of concentration has been omitted by some letter, some sign of interpretation, but we have not missed it. Here I am now going to illustrate this on the case of our amendment to Article 182. I see now an interest in SNS MPs for this discussion, which is fine. So in Article 182, paragraph 3 should be inserted in one place, Mr. Becic, to insert one stuck. I'm going to say exactly where it is right now. This is how it goes – when a geological inspector finds that a violation of Article 1 has been committed, it should stand there. It was not there, Mr. Bečić, followed by the text - on the spot, expressing a responsible person in a company, i.e. another legal person and entrepreneur a fine of 5,000 dinars, respected gentlemen. This amendment is an example of the fact that one sign of interpretation can affect the content of one position, one member, one draft law, Mr. Becic, and it was necessary, and the government gentlemen have accepted our amendment, and therefore the justification for putting one in the right place, gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, in place. Why is it particularly important, and two minutes, I'll have the following...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40801	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Like I said, this amendment has been accepted. Members of the 186th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40802	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President and Chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ministers Antić and the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, seems to me that all MPs, Mr. Becic, will have advanced parties to discuss, now everyone is talking. But I'll explain my amendment. So, we noticed that in Article 186, Mr. Becic, there's a one-stop shop missing. And then we submitted an amendment to put it in the right place, as is the order, stuck. Here's where it is. This is how the text goes, so few citizens can hear what it says in the bill, to be informed. They must be following a session of the National Assembly. It says – when a mining or geological inspector imposes a mandate under Articles 182, 183, 184 and 185 of this law, in that place, Mr. Becic, one is missing. We have suggested to insert one stuck in this place, Mr. Antić has accepted that it is stuck there and follows the text - on the spot issuing the order, and so on, and so on. The question was still during the previous amendment why is it important? So because of the greatest principle on which the Constitution of our Republic rests, on which modern democracy should rest and with us, in our Republic, which is a great principle of rule of law. One sign of interplication, we have convinced ourselves many times, Mr Becic, can direct us to some other principles that do not concern democracy and we considered it necessary to intervene here, in order to, while safeguarding parliamentaryism, preserve the great principle of the rule of law of Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40803	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will dare comment on this amendment, no matter what my colleague who is academically honest and who has declared this Assembly sacred, has repeatedly challenged me, that I have the right to, like all other MPs, to comment on the laws, or comment on amendments, which they have put up with. Here I am voting, I don't know which way but, for this academic congratulation. I will vote in favour of the amendment when the voter's day comes, or when you decide it's time to vote, it may be today, and I suppose the MPs who have proposed this academic congratulation will also attend that vote. I am a witness that we have accepted more amendments and voted for more amendments, and I particularly, than they have voted for their amendments. So I believe that they will remain to vote for their amendments, for those who have not been accepted, and here I am obliging that regardless of whether they are or not there, I vote for that academic congratulation. A team before it comes from a person who has repeatedly challenged my right to comment on the laws and amendments, I hope they will not challenge my right to vote for such a congratulatory amendment. As for the marble in the O.R., I hope that my colleague who is a doctor and who is academically honest, and I believe and advocate of the sanctuary of democracy, etc. democratic principles, etc. It's okay that democracy isn't just about saying what you want to say, it's about listening to who you want and not listening to who you don't want to listen to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40805	Thank you. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Prof. Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 187th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40806	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and the chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic, the honourable Minister Antić, the honored guests and guests of the ministry, this is the last amendment that we have submitted to the proposal for a law on mining and geological research, the People's MPs of the New Party. I think, Mr. Becic, it's our turn to properly round this debate in detail on this bill. I agree, of course, with Mr. Zivkovic, who I worked with to prepare these amendments, and in one part with Mr. Antic when we together claim that the Assembly is our central political institution... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40807	Because Mr. Pavicevic, you've been living in the role of minister and now you think you have the final word and now you're talking about today, about the debate on amendments, and you're not talking about the amendment that you submitted to Article 187. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure can't do that. Thank you. I find this amendment accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40808	Article 191 falls under transitional and final provisions and is prescribed by it. The rules for the implementation of this law will be laid down within two years from the date of entry into force of this law. We've amended that deadline for two years to be reduced to six months. We believe from the point of view of law enforcement and the importance of mining and geological research for Serbia's economic development that it is unacceptable for two years, as it will make it impossible to apply the law and create conditions for further development of mining and geological research. That's why we suggested that this deadline be reduced. We believe that when this law was drawn up, a team that worked was enough to get into matter, that it was enough for you six months to prepare a sublegal act. In addition, I must point out the government's behaviour towards the Assembly, disrespecting the acts of the Assembly, because in 2013, this Assembly voted in 2013 on a resolution on the legislative policy of the National Assembly, which is prescribed that proposals for all sublegal acts accompanying that law be submitted. I know this is difficult to implement in practice, but that is why we suggest that the deadline be reduced if the Government does not already respect the resolution voted by this Assembly, and even the ruling majority in this Assembly will not oppose the Government, but rather give support to such behaviour.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40809	Thank you, ma'am. Unfortunately, Mr. Risticevic, your appeal did not bear fruit. Mr. Pavicevic left the O.R. without a vote. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to Article 195. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40810	I would use this last amendment to the text of the Law on Mining and Geological Research above all to thank all MPs for a truly good debate that we have had in recent days and about the Energy Development Strategy and the Mining and Geological Research Act. I think it is two extremely important legislative projects, namely strategies and laws, which should have a major impact on the life and future of this country. It's not my place to judge, but if you would allow me this humble right, I would use it if the MPs had really made a huge effort and a great deal of energy to analyze this law in a good way, that the amendments that were submitted were indeed in the function of doing this law even better. I want to thank all the parliamentary groups for their contribution. Of course, I would like to thank the Resorient Assembly Committee and Mrs Tomic for the great support and understanding of both this law and this whole framework and all amendments. And, of course, at the very end of the day, I would like to call on the National Assembly to invite all MPs to support this law, because I deeply believe that especially the Mining Act deserves one support from all MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40811	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank Minister Antic and his cabinet for participating in today's debate. We're moving on. Thank you. National MP Zoran Babic on the basis of Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of this session, the Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the National Education Council, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 December 2015. In accordance with Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure on a proposal to put on the agenda of the proposal for a selection, appointment, resolution, termination of the emergency procedure during the session of the National Assembly may decide on the condition that the sittings are attended by the majority of the total number of Members of Parliaments. Therefore, before we move to a decision on this proposal, a quorum should be established. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' voting system. I've got a problem with the system, I don't have any data on the screen, I'm asking the service to get to the chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-04-0.u40812	Please, the vice president said the system is wrong, so we have to repeat, the quorum needs to be re-entered, please insert now. We have determined that there are 129 MPs present and we can move on to further work. I am putting on the vote by MP Zoran Babic to put on the agenda of this session a proposal for a decision to elect the president of the National Education Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, no one, with abstentions, voted seven out of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're continuing our work. We move on to a new point search – Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the National Educational Council. I ask the MPs to file a statement with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the National Education Council. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We don't have a list of registered speakers. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Friday, December 4, 2015, starting at 14 hours and 52 minutes as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the electronic system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are now 140 MPs present in the hall and that we have working conditions. I put the draft law on mining and geological research to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that the vote was – 144 against – three abstentions – were not voted by two MPs from the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the amendment law, in the same text, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic, together MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and MP Balša Bozovic, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 146 of the total of the 148 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milinko Zivkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Social Democrats League have submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 141 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Milinko Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Social Democrats League have submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 142 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 143 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milinko Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Social Democrats League have submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was tabled by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote144 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was filed by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – there are no, abstentions – there is no, there is no, there is no 144 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by six MPs to the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was tabled by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 144 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milinko Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Social Democratic League have submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Social Democrats League have submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 146 of the total attendance of the 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by six MPs from the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, the abstentions – there is no, 145 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 31st Amendment was tabled by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, abstention – there is no, 144 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD Group submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milinko Zivkovic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th amendment, with a correction, was filed by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the LSV group submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 149, out of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 145, of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 149, out of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the LSV group submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 145 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150, out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the LSV group submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 145 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 148, of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the LSV group submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the LSV group submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the LSV group submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 146, of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the LSV group submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the LSV group submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 out of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 58th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 out of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th amendment was filed by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 149, out of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 out of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 62nd amendment with a correction was filed by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 out of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milinko Zivkovic submitted to the 65th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150, of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Milinko Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150, of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 68th amendment was filed by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 out of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milinko Zivkovic submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150, of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the LSV group submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 146, of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the LSV group submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 146, of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 71st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 151 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 71st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 72nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted an amendment to Article 73. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 147 out of a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 74th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstention – there was no vote of 145, of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 79th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, no one, no one, with abstentions, voted 144 out of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 80th Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 142, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 81st Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, no one, no one, with abstentions, voted 144 out of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 82nd amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, no one, no one, with abstentions, voted 144 out of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 103rd amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against - no one, with abstentions – has voted 143 of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 104th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, no one, no one, with abstentions, voted 144 out of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 105th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 148, of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 107th Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 148, of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 147 out of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 112, the amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 148, of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD submitted to the amendment 129. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 152, out of the 152 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Social Democrats League have submitted to the 149th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 147 out of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Social Democrats League have submitted to the 150th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against - no one, with abstentions – there is no vote of 145, out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At point 7 of Chapter IX and Articles 154, 155 and 156 of the amendment, five MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 153, out of the 153 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 157th Amendment was submitted by six MPs to the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 148, out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Social Democrats League have submitted to the 158th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 148, out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 159th amendment was divided by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against - no one, with abstentions – there is no vote of 149, of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 159th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 153, out of the 153 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Social Democrats League have submitted to Article 159 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 148, out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic to Article 159. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote of 150, of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Social Democrats League have submitted to the 160th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 148, out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SVM group submitted to the 160th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS, the ZS – submitted to the 168th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to Article 177 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 186th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS, the ZS – submitted the amendment to Article 191. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to Article 195. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Please, I'm putting the draft law on mining and geological research in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, v – five, the abstention of two, two of the 153 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on mining and geological research. I am voting on the draft energy development strategy of the Republic of Serbia by 2025 with projections by 2030. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, no one, with abstentions, voted seven of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal for a strategy in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At point 2.2. of the amendment, six MPs from the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League have submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At point 3.1 of the amendment, six MPs from the Social Democratic League of the Duchy of Vojvodina submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 149 of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At point 3.2. of the amendment, six MPs from the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League have submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At point 3.3 of the amendment, six MPs from the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At points 5.5 and 5.6 of the amendment with the correction, six MPs from the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on the draft energy development strategy of the Republic of Serbia by 2025 with projections by 2030 in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, no one, with abstentions, voted seven of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft energy development strategy for the Republic of Serbia by 2025 with projections by 2030. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Finance and Training of Mercenaries in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the work of paid members of the family of members of diplomatic or consular representations in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 149, no one, with abstentions, voted for four of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – no one, with abstention – has voted five of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the succession and consolidation of bilateral agreements, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – no one, with abstention – has voted five of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2015 Financial Plan of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote nine of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, no one, with abstentions, voted nine out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the National Educational Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – two, abstentions – there is no, nine of the 153 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the president of the National Educational Council. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you.
