ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-18-0.u43740	I wouldn't want you and I, Vice President, to have a problem, but pay attention to the secretaries, I'm an authorised promoter in front of the Finance Committee. You called the board president. Then there's obviously some kind of misunderstanding. You can see with your job, and you can make it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-18-0.u43741	Mr. Radenkovic, I'm sorry I've now been given the Deputy Secretary this, where it is said - the SPS and that you are a representative of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-18-0.u43742	I'm the one who volunteered. If you don't have that information, give them a break, and let them see what's wrong with the service.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-18-0.u43743	Mr. Radenkovic, I just received information from the service. You are not an authorised representative of the president's term of office, it is for the election of new members. That's a special point.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-18-0.u43744	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-18-0.u43745	Thank you. Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) I thank you. Since we don't even have a list of speakers registered for discussion, I'm concluding a unique search. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. We move to the 15th item of the agenda - Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents and two members of the Republic Committee for the Protection of Rights in PUBLIC PROCESSES Please, if they have not already done so, immediately submit applications for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Whether the proposal's representative, MP Mr Dejan Radenkovic, member of the Finance Committee, the republican budget and control of public spending. The word is Mr. Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-18-0.u43746	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 140. The Law on Public Procurement, paragraphs 2 and 6 provides for the President and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures to elect and resolve the National Assembly and, on a proposal from the relevant Committee on Finance and after a public competition. The amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement, which the Assembly voted on July 31st and entered into force on August 12th, increased the number of members of the Republic Commission from six to eight members and a member of the 90th provision that two new members of the Republic Commission would be elected within 90 days of the date of entry into force of the law. As the President of the Republic Commission, and we have just found his resignation, resigned from office as President of the Republic Commission on 22 June, to which he was elected by decision of the National Assembly on 26 March 2013, I can say that, on the basis of the power vested in Articles 140, 2 and 6 and Article 90 of the Law, the Committee launched a procedure by a decision of 13 August to re-election of the President and two new members of the Republic Commission and published a public competition in "The Official Messenger" on the website of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in the daily list of "Politics". You all have an explanation, but I have to apologize for the citizens following the National Assembly's meeting. The deadline for submission was 14 September and a total of 16 applications arrived at the public competition. At its meeting on 4 September, the Committee educated a working group to carry out the procedure for selecting the President and two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures with the task of carrying out this procedure, which included a review of applications for public competition, reviewing the accompanying documentation with applications, verifying the fulfilment of all the conditions set out in the public competition, establishing the fulfilment of conditions for selecting candidates, laying down the principles for drawing up and drawing up a proposal for a test of professional competences from public procurement, establishing a test, conducting tests and reviewing the results of testing of candidates and selecting the president and two members of the Republic Commission. The working group, in accordance with its powers, reviewed the candidates' applications at meetings held on 4 September and 15 October and 23 October, established which candidates meet the conditions for further selection procedure and agreed on the principles for carrying out a test for verifying the professional competences in the field of public procurement of candidates for the selection of presidents and two members of the Republic Commission, which the Committee of course also informed. I must point out that, at the session held on 23 October, the Committee, of course again on the proposal of the Working Group, set out the principles for conducting candidate testing and selecting the president and two members of the Republic Commission, as well as a list of questions for the qualification test. The candidate testing was carried out at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and after the test was completed, the task force carried out a review and determined the results of the testing. In accordance with Article 20. At the meeting held on 2 November, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly held a discussion with candidates for the president and two members of the Republic Commission, of course who passed the qualification test and on the basis of the above mentioned Committee, set out at its session on 17 December the proposal for a decision to elect the president and two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, by proposing to the president Hana Kukic, and two members were proposed by Branimir Blagojevic and Jasmina Milenkovic. I would only briefly, although you all have attached biography, but again for the sake of the public, to point out what stems from the procedure, from their biographies, from their oral answer to our questions and I can say that Hana Kukic was proposed to the President of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, which appeared in this vacant place. As far as the Finance Committee is concerned, it made an outstanding impression and showed excellent knowledge in the area of public procurement. It is about the person who is a member of the Republic Commission and she has fully affirmed herself as an expert in the area and as a serious and responsible person dedicated to her work and her obligations. You can see knowledge in the field of public procurement from its biography and it has been acquired in the PTT Serbia Public Enterprise in the public procurement sector. As rapporteur, I must point out, according to the available data, the number and efficiency of the resolved cases has been very high and for the sake of all this, we believe that Hanna Kukic is the only possible candidate for the president of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. When it comes to the other two candidates for members of the Commission, I can say, as far as Jasmine Milenkovic, who we propose to be one member, has already been a member of the Greater Republic Commission in one meeting. For ten years, she has worked on various jobs and is perfectly familiar with the principles of work, demands and challenges arising from the obligation to serve as a member. When it comes to the second candidate Branislav Blagojevic, we can freely say that he is a young but already fully proven expert in the field of public procurement, which in addition to formal education in this area has a long-standing practice of public procurement in the NBS. The two showed envious knowledge both in writing and in the oral part of the competition, representing themselves as a person of authority and integrity, and so the Committee decided accordingly. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the election of the president and two members of the Republican Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, and I am deeply convinced that the choice of proposed candidates is necessary when it comes to the continued work of the public procurement system in the Republic of Serbia. With this in mind, further successful negotiations between our country and the EU under Chapter 5, which are public procurement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-18-0.u43747	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-18-0.u43748	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am sorry that the provisions of Rule 168 of the Rules of Procedure that speak are easily reused – an extremely urgent procedure can be accessed by the selection of officials elected by the Assembly. From the explanation of the authorised promoter, I did not understand where this exceptionalness is and why it took this speed, or why I did not hear why it was not within the deadline prescribed by the law, and the author himself said here 90 days after the day of entry into force that new members were to be elected, for two more than the Assembly adopted by the end of July of this year. If the law came into force on August 12, 90 days, it's November 10th, today is December 18th, so more than a month late again, we haven't met the deadline we gave ourselves here, or a deadline that the ruling majority did not give. The committee, reading the explanation, did its job almost by the end of the day, says November 2nd, talks were held with candidates, but then from November 2nd to December 17th nothing. Silence and then December 17th, the Committee comes with a proposal to elect a president and two members of this committee. I don't think that's right, let's just say so mildly, I don't use harder words. You're putting the Assembly here before the final act to discuss candidates whose names and résumés we as MPs saw only yesterday and we need to choose them today for this important function. Important, in order to improve the process of public procurement, to speed it up, so that what the health minister told us this week that because of complaints in the public procurement process could not be done integrated, information system in health care, so we had to change the law. So, the problem with this majority is this arrogance, this irresponsibility that approaches the performance of the jobs of the most responsible jobs and the completion of the jobs within those deadlines that we set ourselves. So this congregation itself has adopted a 90 - day deadline, and here it turns out that it takes 130 days to finish this job. And that's irresponsible. Then we find ourselves in a situation where we've been using the Rules of Procedure that's been made for exceptional cases, let's say cases where the Prime Minister says that some minister is not the place in the government, and then we've been waiting two weeks to see how he's going to leave that government, whether he resigns or we're going to replace him. There's no such thing. There's no such thing. Then we'll probably get like this in half a day, and maybe we won't, and it's more and more like that scenario that we won't get that solution at all in this regular session. But in any case, these candidates, reading biographies, meet the conditions, I believe that this committee of finance has done its job well and has chosen the best candidates. I haven't had time, unfortunately, to find out if there might have been any others, if anyone might have had any objection to this whole process and because of all this, because of this speed that this is done and which is put on the agenda, which I don't think is justified, we simply can't vote to wrap up the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-18-0.u43749	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we don't have a list of those registered for discussion, I'm concluding a unique search. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Friday 18 December 2015 starting at 10.35 p.m. as the Day for Voting on Points of the Ninth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. The vote starts in five minutes. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I'm asking Members of Parliament to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 133 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move to the first item of the agenda – Proposal for an enforcement and security law. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on enforcement and security, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – eight abstentions – there are no, no two, of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're moving on to the amendments. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 152 out of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 156, of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 155, of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 153, out of the 157 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 152 out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 154, out of the 158 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no vote of 155, of the 158 MPs present, for - four, against - none, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 154, out of the 158 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vesna Martinovic and Natasa Vukkovic together submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 156, of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 155, out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 160, of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vesna Martinovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 154, out of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158, out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158, out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nedjo Jovanovic and Zvonimir Stevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 162, of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Stanojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – no one, with abstention – voted 15, out of 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. On Article 36 of the amendment, in the same text, the Citizens' Protector and six MPs of the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 156, of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, abstention – there is no vote of 160 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 161 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 158 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 52nd amendment was submitted by Parliament of People, Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 162 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 60th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 73rd amendment, nine MPs from the BORIS TADIĆ group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 74th amendment, MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name above the members and members of the 75th amendment, nine MPs from the BORIS TADIC group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 75th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name above the members and members of the 76th amendment, nine MPs from the BORIS TADIC group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 155 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name above the members and members of the 77th amendment, nine MPs from the BORIS TADIC group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 157 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name above the members and members of the 78th amendment, nine MPs from the BORIS TADIC group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 157 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 78th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name above the members and members of the 79th amendment, nine MPs from the BORIS TADIC group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 79th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 79th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name above the members and members of the 80th Amendment with the correction, nine MPs from the BORIS TADIĆ group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 156 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 81st amendment, nine MPs from the BORIS TADIC group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 82nd amendment, nine MPs from the BORIS TADIC group submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 157 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 83rd amendment, nine MPs from the BORIS TADIC group submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 83rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 84th amendment, nine MPs from the BORIS TADIĆ group submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 84th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 155 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 87th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 89th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 89th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 92nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 155 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov submitted the amendment to Article 97. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 157 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 99th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 164 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 99th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 155 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Amendment 105. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 110th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name above the members and Article 122 of the amendment, nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 157 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 124 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to Article 124. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 124, the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 126th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to Article 126 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 131st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 157 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 133th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 133rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 135th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 135th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 141st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 141 of the amendment, the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 154 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to Article 148. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstention – voted 155 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to Article 149. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 155 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to Article 151 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to Article 152 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 155th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – none of the abstentions – there was no vote of 154 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to Article 156 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 155 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to Article 157 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 155 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. It often happens to us in the system that MPs vote first, so they withdraw the vote and then the numbers change. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and Article 172 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. Six MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 200th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 155 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would ask MPs to make a big difference when they vote, because they often vote and withdraw their vote and change our numbers on the monitor. The 204th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 207th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. It's not a problem, this way only the vote will last longer, as MPs are inconclusive when they vote. Six MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to Article 209 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 149 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to Article 210 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 237th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to Article 253 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted the amendment to Article 254. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – there was no vote of 151 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 258 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to Article 258. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm taking a five-minute break. (after crawling )
