ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 93 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 137 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the next MPs Zlata Djeric, Branko Djurovic, Vladimir Marinkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Dusan Milisavljevic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Jovana Jovanovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure and, exceptionally, on Monday, because of the need for the National Assembly to review proposals for the agenda set out in the government's request. You were delivered the minutes of the session of the 9th and 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Since today's session is attended by most of the total number of MPs, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from these sessions. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 16, 17, 18 and 19 June 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 133, against – no one, with abstention – voted 13 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 22 and 24 June 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -134, no one, with abstentions, voted 12 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the meeting of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2015, which was convened at the Government's request, you were also sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the session of the 13th extraordinary session, the following Dn e v n e d: 1. Proposal for a law on the conversion of rights of use into property rights on construction land with compensation, 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia, and 3. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. National MP Aleksandar Markovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) and Article 157... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31611	Thank you. I asked the Rules of Procedure for what you have yet to say, because you usually don't give me a word when you say it, and that's the unification of the debate under Article 157 that you wanted to read now. So again we have a proposal to unite two points of the agenda, and contrary to Article 157. Rules of Procedure which states in point 2. – The National Assembly may decide to carry out a joint principled search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, which are conditional or mutually related to each other, with the decision on each draft law being carried out separately. I failed, reading the laws, or the arguments of the Law on the Conversion of the right of use to property on construction land with compensation and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elimination of Floods in Serbia, to find no common link, no mutually conditioned solutions. The only thing that could bring them together is the fact that in front of the government, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic, was authorized to explain these laws. I couldn't find any mutual conditionality or related solutions, as found in Article 157. Please make this proposal, since it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure, and your obligation is in accordance with Article 27. To take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, do not put it on the agenda, because it is impossible and it would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure to hold a joint debate on these two draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31612	You have always received a word when you asked for, under Rule 157, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but what you will never understand or do not want, and that is that other MPs have the right to appeal to the Rules of Procedure. This is Article 92(2) and Article 150(7), and it is up to the tide to decide whether to adopt a proposal for a Member to call on these members and bring together a debate or not. That individual thought of yours means nothing against the mood and decision of most MPs in this House. There's absolutely no harm to the Rules of Procedure, nor can an MP hurt the Rules of Procedure. It does not exist, and since nothing has been voted upon, it is my duty to put MPs' proposals to the vote, there is neither my violation of the Rules of Procedure nor anyone else who holds the chair of the session nor the people who prepare the sessions, and they know less the Rules of Procedure than you do. So, please read the Rules of Procedure from the first to the last member. It's very important to connect things with each other. That's what lawyers know one norm doesn't go without another, and attitudes, especially one after another. Ambassador, you're wrong. I'm trying to help you with something when you're calling for article 157. You cannot contain democracy and vote in this House. I can't help you with that. We can vote for order, but you're not right at all. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: "Let's vote." Of course we'll vote. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31613	Madam President, it has somehow become a tradition that every session we begin in the same way. I am advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108(1). I'm not going to ask the Assembly to make a statement about this. In support of the argument you just made, I will remind and remind a colleague who somehow persistently advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure, complaining that two points of the agenda have been merged into a united debate. I will remind you that on May 5th, this National Assembly discussed 97 points, so we joined the Beer Act together with the Forests Act. I don't know what they have to do with it, unless the foresters are eating beer, probably after work hours, and all that with the meteorology bill. I don't know what kind of beer has to do with meteorology, and everything with the Water Act, so it's all about the law on amendments and additions to the Veterinary Act. It did not bother a colleague who advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure because counterpart Markovic proposed a merger of two points of the agenda. We have a 29th of May 2009, it's not an individual case, when 64 points of the agenda are merged. Not two, but 64 points of the agenda, so the Animal Welfare Act is joined with the ethanol Act. What does ethanol have to do with the Animal Safety Act? I'd like my colleagues who voted for a united debate to explain it to me, and now they're in the way of telling them what the Flood Act has to do with the laws proposed today. Also, December 11th, 2009, 57 points of the agenda. If we didn't keep looking into the past, this assembly of the National Assembly in over a year...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31614	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31615	I'm done. ... The most he had were 12 connected points in one. Not 97, not 60 and something, but 12, which is a major step in respecting the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31616	So you're not asking for a vote? No, I don't. ) I am putting this motion to vote on the merger of the debate on a joint principled search. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 136, v - nine abstentions – there are no votes, nine of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Aleksandra Damljanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr. Djordje Milić, Deputy Assistant Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure and Ljubomir Aksentjevic, Special Advisor of the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint principled search on the draft law on the conversion of rights of use into property rights on construction land with a fee and a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia. Would Professor Zoran Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure want the word? Yeah. ) The word has Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31617	Thank you. Dear Members of the National Assembly, dear MPs and MPs, there is today a bill that is very important for Serbia, especially when it comes to increasing the conditions, or improving the conditions of investment, and if we are talking about increasing investment and, of course, employment itself. Before I start explaining the law, I also need to say that everything we've done over the past year, as far as the government and the Ministry of Civil Engineering are concerned, is just an attempt to ensure that adequate legal solutions are built in Serbia. In Serbia today, too, it is being built precisely because last year we passed an important law, namely amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, which I can say today that lives, unlike other previous legal solutions that we are correcting, as well as today's proposal for a law on the conversion of rights of use into property, we are correcting the mistakes that we have not made and because of which we have a situation that certain entities, whether from privatisation, bankruptcy, sports society, or those who have obtained the right to use from local self-government, have not brought in land for purposes, have not been able to build and have therefore stopped their process of any production, industry, simple employment. So, we want to end our own transformation on building land, we want to bring in the urban purpose of building land and to increase, above all, revenues, so not only the budgets of Serbia, the province, but also local self-government. The Institute of Conversion was introduced in 2009. The decision also of the 2013 Constitutional Court challenged the possibility of the conversion being carried out in the way that was then envisaged and therefore we had a definitely stalemate when we talk about construction and investment. The law in front of you provides conversion, allowing conversion, therefore, to the right of property or the right to long-term lease with a certain fee. The fee is market value, with of course options that will be defined by the Serbian government through the regulation of the possibility of a reduction in that fee. However, this issue for many years has been a political issue and we have just tried to shift this political issue from this policy sphere to what is called the economy and to make it an economic issue and when we talked about the Law on Planning and Construction, I said that we would first analyse the effects of the Law on Conversion, and only then come before you to propose or present a draft of this law. We did that analysis. We took data from 137 local self-government and municipalities on the surface of the building land on which the faces of the conversion bearers are registered as bearers of the right to use. We received data from institutions, such as the Republic Geodetic Institute on the total area of building land. We've received data from the Restitution Agency on all those who are looking for any money, any land. We received data from the Privatisation Agency on the number of privatised business entities, as well as the number of economic operators in restructuring and received data from the Tax Administration on the market value of building land. So these are relevant institutions and all the data that are in the economic analysis, and I think you have them in the light of this law, were the basis on which we proposed a proposal for this law. Why did we do that? We did it because we wanted to determine the orientation value of the building land and we came up with some important information, which is that the total value of the building land in RS is 661,015 hectares, and that the subject of this law, the subject of the Law on Conversion, so I express myself faster, is 531,042 hectares, or 0.80% of the total building land. That the value is 1.4 billion euros according to the tax administration's estimates. So that's the data we got from the economic analysis that was made. This legal situation that has existed for many years and has made it impossible for the practical way to continue to build must be resolved and this law will shut us down and finally finish the story we are telling about the property transformation of the building land. We had a wide public debate from Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kruševac, Užica. In addition, all potential and relevant partners have been given an opinion on the draft law. The comments we received along with them were coordinated, i.e. we introduced into this law wanting to just get a quality legal solution. Then, what is very important, which is that this law, or the proposal of this law, is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because just in the previous period we had a problem with the Constitutional Court's decision because the previous decision and the regulation adopted by the Government, which the previous governments had made, was not in line with the Constitution. In addition to the conversion that we believe this law can exercise the right to use, the right to property, this law is simple, administratively easy to implement, within 30 days, it is possible, by our assessment, to make a conversion. In addition, this law gave us the possibility that by the time the property was right to be leased for 99 years by dividing the market value of the building land by 99 and obtaining the annual fee to be paid. The fee to be charged is distributed into two equal parts, so to speak. One section goes to the Restitution Fund, the Restitution Agency, and the other part to Serbia, the province and local self-government. The estimates say that over the next two to three years, it is possible to raise around 630m euros on the side of the Restitution Fund and as much on the side of Serbia, the province and local self-government. Of course, there's a right to a reduction in compensation. The right to reduce the fee when we talk about undeveloped construction land primarily refers to the degree of development of local self-government since, as you know, there are a number of local self-governments that are devastated and undeveloped and, in that sense, there will certainly be a reduction of compensation and it will be governed by a regulation that will be adopted by the Serbian Government in the next 30 days at the latest. When construction land is built, the price of land below the property is rejected from the market price. If it is an industrial or production complex, then no land planned for public purpose, roads and all that goes with it is not accounted for. I hope that with the debate we have today and with all the comments that can help make this draft law that needs to be even better regardless of all the public debates and all the arrangements that we have just had with potential investors and domestic and foreign and organisations such as the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade, Naleda, all the chambers of commerce of America and all others, the advice of foreign investors, etc., all your suggestions and comments that can help make this law even better are welcome. Thank you. Of course, another bill is in front of you since the MP mentioned why he was uniting. We can thus interpret that and because I am the Vice-President of the Government here, but I can tell you that when we talk about the Flood Law, that I speak briefly again, the only change that we are proposing today, and I will explain why, it is to extend the fact of the law to December 2015, that is, this year, because there is, that simply certain jobs are not finished, not because Serbia has done something, but because the management of the funds of the Solidarity Fund is a total of around 60.2m euros, identified by the EU Agreement, as the body responsible for managing these funds. The funds were paid in May 2015. Therefore, it is one of the reasons why it certainly requires the office to continue to operate, and it must work naturally in accordance with the law. Very important, for me, the significant reason why we are extending the fact of this law is that we have been working in parallel for several months on system law, a law on disaster risk management that has never existed as a law so far. Therefore, the moment we put that law in public debate and bring it here, then the fact of this law will cease. Of course, I'm open to talking about it. There are still many arguments why we are asking for an extension and why we are asking MPs to accept the extension of the Flood Act by the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31618	Thank you. Do the committees in charge want a word? Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31619	The Honorable President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us with a law that I already mentioned here on the tide when some other laws were, above all, when Mr Sertic, the Minister of Business, presented amendments to the Law on Privatisation, and where I said at the time that the Law on Conversion was needed as one of the key laws in order to simply decommission investments in Serbia and that Serbia could move forward. I must say, dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, that I am in an ungrateful position today. On the one hand, I speak as a representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group and support the bill proposal, and on the other hand, I come from a family who suffered, unfortunately, great damage and whose property was nationalised after 1945. My family is one of the founders and the restitution league. I come from the municipality of Topol, which, due to its historical heritage in 1945, has experienced savage nationalisation and whose consequences are suffering today. Unfortunately, the situation is such and I personally have received a memo, first of all, the restitution league that expresses certain disagreements with the bill, but, I say on my behalf and on behalf of the party I belong to, I disagree. What's the key to the thing I want here, first of all, to mention as something that makes me support this law. This law only has 23 members, it's pretty clear. However, there are some small shortcomings, some of which I have suggested to the amendments to do away with, and some of us can say, in this principle debate touch, so I expect some concrete answers to certain questions. First, you mentioned that after the adoption of this law, we will have a government regulation, which will be passed within 30 days of the adoption of this law, but what is the biggest problem is when local self-government determines the price of conversion. That's now the first problem that comes up. The law says – the price of conversion will be determined according to the degree of development of municipalities. You know, I was just saying here in front of you that the biggest problem right now in Serbia is that, I must say, one distribution that remained as the legacy of the time of Mladjan Dinkic, which was the degree of development of the municipalities to the need where he was in power, so where he was in power and the municipalities were, I must mention, that no one is angry here, an example of Loznica that was always on some third degree and has always received the most funding, unlike some other municipalities that were opposition to that government at the time and that were always in the first group to get the least funding. Dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, that is why this regulation has to be changed urgently, if we think that the cost of conversion will be, let's say, just for everyone. What's one more thing you mentioned, which, perhaps even in this opening part, you didn't mention, as far as state aid is concerned. A very important thing about this law and something that I'm afraid may lead to certain abuses and corruption in the application of this law, which are well designed. Why am I telling you this? Because you have left room for future investors who have bought land, have it on use as physical or legal persons, can appear in local self-government and based on detailed regulation plans – we want on this plot based on the degree of busyness in the future time period to build more objects, silos, anything else, and all of this land under these assumed objects does not enter the price of conversion. Then, what you have stated, which I also think is unnecessary, is that local self-government is getting some statements from future investors, how much they will hire workers. I'm afraid, in local self-government, we can take any statement from investors, but what is it that will guarantee that these investors will respect it, if they say they will hire 100, 200 or 300 people? On the one hand, it will be freed on that part of the land that is located under the future of these facilities, of course, that land under the facilities follows the fate of the buildings themselves, but we have no guarantee other than certain agreements that can be made between these investors and local self-government. In this way, there may be some abuse. What else is important about this law? In this law, too, Mrs. Mihajlovic, the overall procedure lies with local self-government. For the sake of fellow Members and for the sake of the public, it should be made clear that the entire procedure for future conversions is done by local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities. First of all, Article 3 of this Act, I must also as long-term president of the municipality only read it for the public, Article 3. which determines the amount of compensation says – the level of the conversion fee is determined by the body of the unit of local self-government responsible for property-legislative relations, in accordance with the act establishing the average price of a square metre corresponding fixed properties by areas for the determination of property tax, adopted by the unit of local self-government in the territory on which the building land for which the claim for conversion is made, and the procedure implemented in accordance with this law on the market value of the building land concerned, in accordance with the regulation governing the property tax. If I'm the president of a 10-year-old community and I absolutely can't manage this member, I can only assume he's an ordinary citizen who's going to read this. First of all, I don't understand why you've attached the financial part to the authority of the local self-government in charge of property-legal relations? I think it was fairer and much easier, both for future parties and for citizens, that everything about the financial work is done by the local administration tax administrations, who simply have a database of what land is worth, on which plot, in which area, and that only the property-legal service of the Department of Urbanism of Local Self-Government gives consent whether this land is subject to conversion or not, and that the entire procedure is being conducted by the local tax administration. Then it would be a lot easier for the citizens to get along in this whole story. Also, what's important, I need to say a few sentences about the procedure itself. The procedure next, that if I am the owner of a legal person who has a property that is subject to conversion, I come to the municipality, I ask for this Department of Property-Legal Relations, there I submit a request, those within five days whether that request is valid or not. If it is not valid, they demand within eight days of a certain supplement, if you do not have these supplements, and you feel that they are wrongly asked by the authority of local self-government, you have the right to appeal at the Ministry of Infrastructure and that is the only part where the Ministry of Infrastructure is mentioned. What is also interesting about this law is something that we mentioned in August last year at one of the public debates on the Infrastructure Committee, which is now paying compensation, if someone wants to pay the conversion in full, for a certain number of hectares, ari or already how many of them there are. At that point, we agreed that it was justified to give a discount, or discount, at about 50%. Now, in the bill of law, 30% appears. Dear Mrs Mihajlovic, I sincerely believe, and the New Serbia parliamentary group, that it should have remained an old proposal of 50%, not that we would now be defending these investors, or employers, and, let me say, reducing this part that should go to the Restitution Fund, that families like mine could get some compensation tomorrow, but I honestly believe that these people had already paid it with one. So, they bought companies as legal entities through the tender auction, paid it or bought it out of a bankruptcy process, but they paid a certain price again, and now they're going to pay at some market value that local self-government will again 70 percent of that market price, if they pay at once in cash, or they're going to have the right to pay in 60 months of war, but without any discount. Although they're paying 60 months of war, they'll have to provide security funds. So they're going to have to give a bank guarantee or they're going to have to mortgage. I agree, and you're right when you say it -- it's by law, but you should know that for the employer it's also a burden, because the bank guarantee costs, so it's one really extra burden. I've already mentioned state aid and just for the sake of the public to say that we define state aid as aid to businesses either by local self-government or by state, but it's simply legally treated as state aid. It is agreed by the State Aid Commission of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the amounts either given by local self-government, or given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or by the Government of the AP Vojvodina. For this reason, I simply repeat that I believe that this state aid is completely unnecessary in this law and can only produce certain abuses. Now, about the money you already mentioned in the opening part, let's say once again that about construction land in Serbia has about 640,000 hectares, that some 5,400 hectares, so to speak, are tomorrow subject to conversion, but that doesn't mean, too, to say for the public, that tomorrow everyone is going to rush to make an immediate conversion. So, they're going to do the ones that need it first of all for building, or someone who's going to sell that land tomorrow, so they want to deal with it legally. What's important is that parity that you proposed in the law, which concerns money that will go to the state, or the Restitution Fund. Then you made an interesting proposal and I also intervened with the amendment here, that in the land being taken to the country, and I have to mention, I don't even know if you had that information, and I officially have it, that 92% of the land of these 5,400 hectares is headed to the Republic of Serbia. So only 8% in the state of Serbia are led to local self-government and AP Vojvodina, which means that over 90% is led to the Republic of Serbia. You predicted that in law the land that is headed to the Republic of Serbia, out of the money obtained through conversion, 50% goes to the Republic and 50% goes to the Restitution Fund. So, who reads and doesn't know these percentages would say that's great and that's okay. Although local self-government is 90 percent law enforcement, in practice it will get crumbs or get almost nothing. So I proposed an amendment to make at least one-fifth of this part, which would only mean one-fifth, which would be 10%, goes into the budget of local self-government, or cities and municipalities. I think it's just and I think it's fair because of this high percentage that the land, although located in the territory of local self-government, leads to the Republic of Serbia. It's something I just think is justified and I think it can be accepted in that way. Once again, let me point out that we in Serbia were simply all hoping together that the restitution story would go faster, but hopefully frankly, you also mentioned the Agency for Restitution, that after receiving certain funds and by converting that process to unwind, that this process would go faster and that people who can't, I should say, naturally get objects, land, that they would be able to get those vouchers faster, to get some compensation for what was taken from them tomorrow. On the other hand, Your Honor, you also mentioned the Republic Geodetic Institute as an institution that sent you certain information. Once again, I have to complain about the work of that organ. If we want this conversion to be as fast as possible and if we want it to be as effective as possible, I would ask you most kindly to just look at how these catastrists work, primarily by local self-governments across Serbia, that unfortunately it is nothing personal, that it is going on for years and that we are all looking at it somehow, and we are suffering one reluctantness, one ride. Someone has to stop it once, and I hope that you with your energy are strong enough to do it, that this cadastre can be arranged and that he starts doing his job normally. With this above all concrete questions I have raised, I wish you honestly every happiness in the application of this law, because this law is overly needed by Serbia. I'll give you a little example. When, a few days ago, Prime Minister Vukic was with me on a visit to Oplenac Winery in Topoli, the first question of investors was – when will the law on conversion? So that's the first question, that simple business would spread, and especially foreign investors want to know what it is and they want the land to own it. With them, the concept of use absolutely does not stand. I just have to point out, here in the explanation we're saying we'll have a better charge of property taxes. That how much local self-government will get out of it, it's a relative question, because we now have a united rate for local self-government legal entities, which is 0.4% of the market value, so it absolutely doesn't matter if anyone has use or property, that sum won't change. But the bottom line is very important, we're going to step by step towards a regulated property and we're going to have the chance, first of all, of natural persons, who are going to go into conversion tomorrow, in one easier way to charge in local property tax administrations, which can be reflected in local self-government revenues, because now, I say, by successful financing absolutely with this state land use status without conversion, they avoid paying taxes on property. With this end, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support the law in principle in the voting day, and we hope you will accept our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31620	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31621	Thank you. Thank you for many questions and concerns, so I'll try one at a time to explain. When you mentioned the issue of restitution, first of all, the issue of restitution is not resolved by this law at all. We advocate that amendments to the Restitution Act be addressed and the issue of restitution. I'll read you from the law that's in front of you today, about turning the right of use into property rights with compensation, one attitude in Article 1. – Rights acquired under this law do not restrict the rights acquired under the Law on the return of confiscated property and compensation and the Return Act, i.e. the restitution of property to churches and religious communities, as no reduction of value is foreseen. I really hope that in the coming period the amendments and additions of the Restitution Act and this issue will be resolved much faster. Then you mentioned the following question, the matter of state aid, or commission. The State Aid Control Commission will be the one to identify issues concerning state aid itself. That's where you made, I think, one little mistake, so let me make it right. Only if the land is built can we talk about this percentage reduced, reduced in terms of market value being reduced by the amount of the facility, or the land under the building that is built. When it comes to unbuilt land, then we are talking about the possibility of a reduction based solely on the degree of development of a particular municipality, i.e. local self-government. So, the third and fourth groups and the devastated municipalities are the ones who can get into the story of a reduction in compensation. Of course, the government will establish the regulation, but based on the Regional Development Act that exists. So that's not what we made up. We may be able to go and think about whether this law is good, whether certain changes and additions should be made there. I don't mind, if we get some suggestions, we can move in together. Then you further mentioned the issue of the ministry itself and the property-legal bodies in local self-government. I totally agree they're not fully trained to do the whole thing. Our plan is the following, which is also explained, which is that we are going to train property-legal authorities or whatever their name is, property-legal services in local self-government. It's the department's jurisdiction. Also, the Department of Construction will oversee this law. Thirdly, you are absolutely right that the local tax administration will provide complete information, and property and legal services in local self-government will do a simple account, i.e. a simple accounting action by obtaining from the tax administration eventually if there is a need for a reduction. So it's really a simple accounting store, so it really doesn't need special training. There were a lot of questions, I was writing down. It also concerns the 30% contribution you mentioned. The law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction also provides for 30%, that if paid at the same time, we did the same thing in this law. So we think it's a way so far, it wouldn't be good if it was 50%, all our analyses didn't show that it would contribute something special to the employer himself and that it would protect the interests of the state budget and the Restitution Fund. Also, we mentioned the right to use. The right to use has never been subject to market valuation, and that is one of the reasons why, among other things, we have this law today. You also mention the property tax. As you know, in the year 31.12.2013, the obligation to pay compensation for the right to use has ceased. So, just now, all the other revenues we're going to have, and at the very end of this bill, there will be local revenues, there will be no revenue from the budget itself. Also, when you said that 92% of the land is run as property of the Republic of Serbia, it means that in the very process of conversion, the largest part, 150%, will go into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We can talk, so I'll consult with the government to set a certain percentage to local self-government. So far, we've put this proposal in place, but it's something that can be the subject of further conversations. If I missed something, you'll fill me in later.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31622	I didn't understand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31623	Well, I think I have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31624	Yeah. Two minutes just.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31625	Two minutes, all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31626	That's what the Rules of Procedure says.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31627	Dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, obviously there are certain things we did not understand. A little list, first of all, of your statements made in the previous days, I have to say that I only saw this bill on Saturday in the e-parliament, so there was little room and time to talk about it, although certain things, I say, were in the public debate before, but when it comes to state aid, I specifically said that certain abuses can be made because of this division that Mladjan Dinkic has done with cities and municipalities in Serbia, so there are some municipalities, here I am now talking about smaller municipalities such as Arile, Topola, Koseric, who were always in the first group, and some other municipalities that are, for example. Next to us, and they were favorites of the regime at the time, they were always in the third or fourth group, in a group of devastated municipalities, and I specifically mentioned Loznica, you freely at the government all of what I'm saying check out and you'll see that I was absolutely right. If the Government adopts a regulation where they will implement, let me say, a fair, division of cities and municipalities based on some 50 parameters that the Republic Bureau of Statistics does, we speak in vain both now and in this law the story of some state aid. It's better if she's completely kicked out of the story than there's a possibility of some abuse tomorrow. Just yet, if time allows, let me say, for restitution. It is true that this law does not address the issue of restitution. You have well noticed that we need to make changes and additions and that law, but this law should produce that certain money should be allocated to the Restitution Fund and that tomorrow the former owners, or their successors, will be in an adequate way, let me say, satisfied, will certainly not be fully satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31628	Time. Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31629	Well, let me just add it one more time. When we talk about ranking local self-government according to the regulation, that is, according to the degree of development and the level of social gross product per capita, whether above the republican average, below, how much percent and so on, it is an objective criterion that this law had to take because this division, as such, exists. But also, like I said, I don't mind that it changes, and why, say, in the previous period, maybe we haven't made any changes. So let's get that thing going. When you're talking about spending money on the Restitution Fund, or the Restitution Agency, I think it's great. We are achieving this very law that the money is coming together and right into the Restitution Agency. I see it as an advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31630	Thank you. The word is Hope Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31631	I would like first to refer to this law on short-term conversion only with a few remarks, or better to the questions. Namely, when you spoke about who has so far given some kind of agreement and opinion on the proposal for this law, you mentioned that the European Commission had no objection to the law, that the text is unanimous with other ministries, that NAED, members of the American Chamber of Commerce, other associations, etc., but you did not mention it, so I would also like to ask you whether the Regional Secretariat for Urbanism, Construction and Environmental Protection has been consulted. Namely, a document has just been promoted in Vojvodina these days, a study of the deployment of work zones in Vojvodina, in order to rightly settle this issue because there are a large number of working zones that are non-functional and non-conditional and this document should practically serve as a document that wishes to indicate which working zones are ready to accept potential investors and to show from this document which infrastructures are equipped. It is clear that no investor, or at least some serious investor, will come unless some parcel is infra-infrastructured. The Secretariat has so far handled 39 working areas within 20 local self-government, covering nearly half of the local self-government in Vojvodina. This document should actually serve as a personal map of these work zones that would allow it to come in a simpler way to potential investment sites and this document was made in the most modern technique. So I ask you -- is the Regional Secretariat consulted because I think a document like this would be useful for the entire territory of Serbia, to simplify the process of land acquisition, i.e. investor interest, and to possibly avoid potential abuses? So much for this law. I would refer to this second, namely, amendment of the Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia. It's only here, so to speak, the authority mentioned because it's practically just about moving the deadline for this law, more specifically, the law ceases to apply on July 22nd and the proposal is to move that deadline by December 31st this year. The reasons given are that so far not all the measures of the state reconstruction programme adopted under this law, which expires on July 22nd, have not been implemented. According to some media data, 60 billion dinars, or around 50m euros, have been spent so far to help rebuild damaged ones, according to broken housing, water business facilities, aid to farmers, aid to economic operators and other purposes. In the light of the proposal for a law that we are given, it is said that the activities and measures of the state programmes adopted have been largely implemented. I ask, "What does it mean to a great extent?" For example, what facilities are in the water supply area, such as, say, wells that have been flooded or watery and sewerage nets, in settlements that have been flooded, which have been rehabilitated and to what extent, to what quality? What about waste dumps that were flooded because we know that we have wild dumps all over Serbia? How have the temporary dumps been rescheduled? If you remember, the Ministry responsible for environmental protection has recommended local self-governments to designate temporary landfills for a huge amount of material and furniture and any other material that has been removed from those houses after the withdrawal of water. So I ask what that means, which part of the program is invested in this kind of recovery? It is said that only this spring when the funds of the European Union Solidarity Fund are provided are continued work on the recovery and reconstruction of infrastructure facilities. If we remember the scary images we looked at about the effects of the flood, the broken bridges, the collapsed shores of the forts, then the glides, not to talk about the houses, the dead cattle, the question is – what is the quality and what is the scope of this recovery carried out? I'm going to mention only one example here, which is the title that came out on June 23rd, where it's said there's no money to get the dam off the ground, and it's done with the famous antimony mine in the county and that the problem hasn't been solved yet. The waste, as you know, has stood out and is running downriver, polluting downriver rivers, streams and land. It is estimated to have destroyed 50 hectares of land by now, and more than 600 hectares remain under application. And now, let me remind you, on October 23rd, you asked for an explanation precisely regarding the spilling of this toxic ash from the chair mine and only asked for an explanation of what the analysis of the quality of the mud showed and how far that mud came. The data, i.e. the answer I received, was the radio analysis by the Batut Institute in the section Kostanik near the owner of the plot by the stream, I will say his name, Mr Grujic Tomislav, on his land was taken a sample. The sample found that arsenic content is 260 times the allowed value, lead 68 times, antimony 138 times. If we know that these are all toxic elements, the question is whether someone has informed the owner of the plot that they must not grow anything on their parcels, it is even mentioned for many other places that they are also not recommended to grow fruits, vegetables or other cultures. The dam began in November 2014 and you saw then if you remember that Minister Velimir Ilic was in the field and then the breaking news was actually his stuck shoe in the mud and naked heel that appeared. Unfortunately, what was the basic problem about him was a little talk. He then promised to solve this problem by building a dam. Unfortunately, the dam that was made was pure improvisation and normally the first rain led to the dam’s failure. It is explained that this law that you are proposing, or moving, all the activities of the state's reconstruction programme need to be implemented by the end of this year. We're in July of the month and it's a real deadline for serious recovery work to be completed if we know the funds are only provided somewhere in the spring. After the end of this law, and you have mentioned this, a new law on emergency situations or disaster recovery is passed, a response to disasters that should regulate this area with an emphasis on prevention and reduction of the consequences of natural disasters and disasters. I'm afraid it'll be another law that we'll pass, which we'll say is in accordance with the directives, it's ideal, etc., but it's not going to be implemented because even the existing law that was passed in 2009, the Emergency Act, in practice, does not implement the good part at least when it comes to preventive measures. I will only specify one detail, this law provides for an obligation to make at all levels from local to national, and business entities are obliged to make assessments of the threat of territory depending on the dangers that threaten these territories. I have to make a definition of the threat assessment here because it's very important that the disasters and the damages we've been through don't happen again. Namely, an assessment of the threat is a document identifying dangers, sources of endangerment, possible effects and consequences and considering the strengths of the means and preventive measures. According to the data I have, by mid-January 2015, the assessment of the threat had neither the Republic of Serbia nor the province level nor the majority of municipalities, and if we had so far had these documents or at least partially respected existing laws, not only the Emergency Law, but a whole series of laws in the field of environmental protection, I think that the consequences of the flood would be far less, so that we would have much less damage, and that we would not now be moved by some deadlines that I really have a strong doubt that we will be able to respect and that we will again be in a position to move them. I think it's about time we respected the laws and deadlines we're adopting without moving to look for any changes at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31632	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31633	I think it's very important that we deal with the essence, so I'm going to start with your first question about the Law on Conversion, and the question of whether this law is given to the District Secretariat for opinion. No, it wasn't delivered to the Regional Secretariat because it's not according to the Government's Rules of Procedure, but that's why a number of public debates were held, and I think there was a public debate in Novi Sad in May 21. The law was sent to many addresses, it is also on the site and everyone, and there were both natural persons and law offices and investors of domestic and foreign and all possible organisations that were there, who sent their comments to the law. Therefore, there was no law and that the Regional Secretariat if he felt he needed to make comments on the bill. As for the law, i.e. extending the period of the flood laws as I call it, i.e. about removing the consequences of the floods, by the end of this year, I will give you some information, but before I give you information about what has been done specifically in certain segments you asked about, I really must stress that I am particularly proud of the previous year and how it was done, since the floods did not happen to Serbia for the first time, although those that happened last year have been disastrous and we have experienced such a thing for the first time, but there have been both in previous years and in different ways they have been treated, and in various ways the issues have been resolved since the floods were resolved, so we have had a lot of problems. So, the first time the law was passed, by forming a office, was the first time everything that was done since the law was passed, from the moment the floods occurred but when the law was passed and the office was formed, it was done in the government of Serbia and Serbia. For the first time in Serbia, a list of all interventions and a list of all state aid users with the type and amount of assistance published at the official presentation of the office is given. For the first time in Serbia, open public procurement is a public procedure, so everything can be seen and nothing is removed, for the first time, information on all public procurements carried out under the law is published at an official internet presentation. The organisation, such as "Transparency of Serbia", has exercised control over the implementation of public procurement procedures. They gave their opinion on where it is said that the establishment of a public procurement mechanism under the Law on the Elimination of Floods had very good effects. It said in their report, "Transparency of Serbia" that the rules under which it is implemented, as experiences from public procurement, implemented in the wake of the flood could serve to improve the regular public procurement system in Serbia. Something similar has been repeated in the Citizens' Protector's report and so on. Now, let me tell you what was done, and why, once again, to explain why it comes to extending the deadline of this law by the end of this year because in the meantime, a new law will be passed, a system law that will not be limited to action, but will last for many years. Not entering the reasons why 2009 was not properly applied, because this government was not in 2009. I want to tell you some information. Material aid has been paid for a total of 20,000,288 households across Serbia worth more than 4,83 billion dinars. Not to speak now, and if you're interested, we'll talk houses and tenants, water. Works on the reconstruction and recovery of flood protection infrastructure have been completed at more than 120 locations across Serbia in the jurisdiction of "Serbia", "Belgrade" and "Vode Vojvodina". The total estimated value of the works is two billion dinars. Business, agriculture, public facilities, prevention. Facts, material help, homes, so we can copy all of this and give you this, but it's also on official websites. With water specifically to be more precise. The government of Japan, the UK, Turkey, Italy, Algeria, Canada, Indonesia, Albania, Bulgaria and the EU's cocaine foundation approved funding for projects of approximately a billion dinars intended to restore flood protection infrastructure on a proposal from the Office for Aid and Reconstruction. Works on the reconstruction and recovery of flood protection infrastructure have been completed at more than 120 locations, as I said in the jurisdiction of "Serbia", "Belgrade" and "Vode Vojvodina". In co-operation with the UNDP, funding totalling 57 million dinars was provided for the construction of 18 water dams and the cleaning of river troughs on the territory of the following municipalities: Krupanj, Mali Zvornik, Bajna Basta, Ljubovija, Osijek, Vrnjaka Banja, Kosjerić and Loznica. With funds intended to restore damaged and destroyed infrastructures in co-operation with the World Bank, the EU has provided bilateral donors with funds totalling around 70m euros for projects to improve the flood protection system. The projects will be implemented starting in July 2015 and this is one of the reasons why we extend because the contract was signed in June 2015. When I spoke of the reasons and arguments why the law is being extended until the end of this year, I said, of course, the Solidarity Fund in May 2015. The 60.2m-euro Solidarity Fund will be used to recover funds from the Republic and local self-government invested in defending floods, financing new projects to restore critical infrastructure in the jurisdiction of local self-government. It's a road infrastructure, first of all, bridges, plumbing and sewers, water supply. The financing of new reconstruction projects, the financing of new recovery projects, the slide could not have solved all the slides in the previous period, as well as the financing of the project, but the complete resolution of the “Stolice” site you mentioned. Two, continuing co-operation with the EU delegation on the implementation of the 72m aid package, which I mentioned a little while, as regards flood prevention. Therefore, additional aid in the works, family material for which state aid was not sufficient for full recovery, additional aid for agriculture, is meant for seedlings, domestic animals, food for domestic animals, equipment, seed and fertilizer, restoration of travel infrastructure, primarily bridges on state roads. Equipment for a hydrometeorological institution that should serve to strengthen the capacity to predict floods and early warning and obtain mobile flood protection equipment. This is all that was concluded in June 2015, and it should be implemented in the next period and that is one of the reasons why we extend the law. There are a few more arguments, but I thought this was the most important thing that I have to tell you, and we're ready to take this information from official websites, which you can take and look at, copy and give to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31634	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31635	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues today, of course, we are discussing a law that I personally thought would already be passed and brought into legal power in some earlier periods. The aim of this bill on the conversion of the right of use to property on the building land for compensation is certainly the fact, that is, to regulate the property relations on the building land in our country. So far, whenever there's a matter of land conversion, all the modes that have been proposed have absolutely not yielded results. This law deals with privatisation, bankruptcy, enforcement, sports companies, citizens' associations, restructuring companies, and this should be clearly said, does not refer to the largest number of citizens who exercise their right to property over land without compensation and all in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction. In this place, it should be noted that all former SFRY countries in the transition process have made a conversion without any compensation. Slovenia, Croatia and Macedonia first resolved their own issues, as they found it appropriate to be the basis for which they should start, and only then joined the privatisation process. We're on the other side of the line. We first privatized everything that could be privatized, and then here we are, looking at the ex-post mind, remembering that we should finally have arranged our own relations in our country, and that's exactly our biggest problem, and it's not the first time in this matter, but certainly not the first time that something like this has happened to us. One of the, I would say, decades of problems that on the one hand has always been a compromise, and on the other hand, whatever its legal wing, someone will always question its fairness, is exactly the problem of the conversion that we are discussing today. The conversion of land from right to right of use to property, as much as I personally want it to be of professional nature, retains its political character. I say keep because we're not the only ones, we're not the only country in which there's such a thing and that political primate simply takes over. In addition to this, the fact is that the authorities have changed in our country, that the problem remained unresolved, that in 2006, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, whose text I think I am thinking, and I will not talk about it in this place, any other time I hope it will be changed. Whatever he is, the constitutional category of rights of use on city building land is simply not intended for him. That's why many foreign investors, for example, are waiting to start construction, for example, factories, have given up opening for example because of the unresolved land situation. We also had this problem in 2006 when the Constitution was brought in, still, unfortunately, in force. In 2009, when the Law on Construction and Planning was adopted through which the Institute of Conversion was introduced, and later we will see that some of its provisions were announced unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court of Serbia. We had this problem even after the law was in force, we had that problem yesterday, we had that problem last year, etc. It seems to me that if some of the provisions of this law, which I think I share, are actually concerned that Mr Jovanovic also pointed out here on certain issues concerning restitution in a different way, are not regulated, either by you suggesting, or by the resolution committee, either by adopting certain amendments that give a more complete legislative solution, we again come to the burden that certain issues can be challenged, and on that, of course, I will be more concerned with the further course of my presentation. It should also be noted that we had conflicting attitudes for a long time. Will company buyers be able to acquire property at attractive construction sites at the original price at which they bought the company and we heard it here by some authorised promoters, whether the price at which they bought will be reduced by the value of the funds invested or whether they will have to pay the 100% market value of that land. This proposal that we are discussing today provides an answer to this question by stipulating in its Article 2 that the right to convert the right of use into property rights on the building land is carried out with the payment of the market value of that land, while, of course, retaining the possibility that under certain conditions that are once again taxed by this bill, there is a reduction in market value. In the first place, what I have to mention is, and what many citizens have asked as a question – what are we going to do with the restitution? Will my request for return of property first be decided before the Agency for Reconstruction, so let's say my land comes under the influence of the Converting Act? I'm setting this up as an example, but the citizens are asking this question. In the first place, I must also point out that what is disputed to me is exactly the provision that you yourself have read, which is that the rights acquired under this law will not be touched, or will not restrict the rights that are in accordance with the Return Act of Distracted Property and Compensation and the Law on the Return of Property to Churches and Religious Communities. I think this is exactly the kind of wording that's been given. It simply ignores the restitution, because in this way it could be asked whether, in the case of its opposite, the provision reads that the rights not acquired under this law would restrict the right to proceedings before the Agency for Restitution. In this way, as it is interpreted, let's say the applicants apply for the restitution of the seized property, and on whose claims until the day this law enters legal force, it is not yet decided, it seems to me that they are being brought into an unequal position with the people whose demands are under way before the Agency for Restitution decided, who have acquired some rights unlike those who have yet to gain those rights. This takes into account that this law, at least in the way it has been formulated, only bankruptcy rights are taken into account, and my question is, and what if these rights are yet to be acquired, and at this point they are not yet acquired? What is the consequence if it remains in this attitude, which is permeated through some of the following provisions of this bill? It's ignoring the restitution in an apparent way, actually conditioning that citizens who have applied for a refund of property, accepting monetary compensation, and not a natural restitution in which to insist. I agree that this is not resolved, the law does not regulate the issues of restitution, but it does matter, it is mentioned in several of its provisions, and this natural restitution is actually the principle in the Law on the return of seized property and damages, and you will agree that without natural return we are going back to this question again, how and whether, without natural return, so without even respecting private property in our country? In line with the above and again on this issue that it is related, I believe that, for example, Article 11 of this Bill, which we are discussing in paragraph 1, is somehow left unspeakable or incomplete, however you wish. I therefore believe that, beyond the words "all the prescribed evidence", it should be precisely in order to respect the restitution to specify and continue, which would be about to read - and by official duty also obtains confirmation from the Agency for Restitution that the parcel which is the subject of the request for conversion is not in the process of restitution. I think that such a thing should be stated explicitly, in order to show good will to respect the laws that are already in our legal power. This must remove all the misunderstandings, and in order for that to make sense, I think it should be completed exactly like I said, and otherwise, if such a provision is left, it can lead to the most different possible interpretations. Also, I think that this article should be complemented here, where one additional position would be inserted, which would read - again in order to protect the category of persons to which the Return Act is already applied, which is that if the competent authority finds that the plot required by the restitution procedure is required, it is required to conclude, without delay, the termination of the conversion procedure, until the restitution procedure has been properly terminated. Furthermore, I'm just stressing all those members that I think are demanding, and of course, there's time for them to be more normal in one better way. Accordingly, Article 6 of this proposal norms specific cases in which the right to conversion cannot be exercised, i.e. where the provisions of this Act are not applied, and the position of Article 6(2) of this Act reads: ‘the provisions of this Act do not apply to the property purchased in public advertising under market conditions, which covers the right of property on the facility with the right to use on built building land in accordance with specific laws, and before the conclusion of the contract on the purchase of property, i.e. part of the property of a company or other legal person, in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the privatisation until the date of the entry into force of the Law on Planning and Construction, as well as the property which, after the completion of the privatisation procedure of the cargo, legal business acquired from the subject of privatisation until the date of the Law on Planning and Construction, which covers its legal property on construction.’. You see, I'm an education lawyer, a vocal lawyer, and frankly, it's very hard for me to understand what a member this long wanted to say. We do not bring laws here to be clear to you, to be clear to me and other colleagues here, but to be absolutely understandable to all citizens of Serbia, and I am sure that more than half of Serbia's citizens would not understand this kind of thing. Confused or should have been significantly shorter or divided by members, attitudes, etc. Furthermore, we have its position 3. which reads: “In the case of Article 2, the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction apply to the work relating to the conversion of the right of use into property rights on construction land without compensation.” I believe that these two attitudes should be erased or at least drastically altered, so that they do not remain in the form in which they are, at least this way proposed. This actually hides one potential danger, at least I'm interpreting it so, perhaps I'm misreading it, but it's my right to, on a small door, and in a cleverly hidden form, but in an under-covered way, because if I noticed it, many others might have noticed it, too, that the possibility is being introduced to the customers of the privatisation company to acquire property rights on construction land without compensation, and that, as you yourself stated, was the subject of an assessment of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. In fact, here it is essential that the same option is provided for all companies that were purchased before the entry into force of the 2009 Planning and Construction Act, that the purchasers of the privatisation companies, when paying the conversion fee, have the right to deny them the value of the property in privatisation. You remember all members of Article 103(1). The Law on Planning and Construction, which was declared by an unconstitutional decision of the Constitutional Court. At that time, the position of the Constitutional Court was that these companies should pay the full market value of land in conversion, and if this provision remains in this form, we again make a mistake and potential, in fact, we open up the possibility of being subject to constitutionality in front of the Constitutional Court and then coming back to the same, the possibility of the Constitutional Court making a decision declaring such a provision unconstitutional, and then, in some subsequent period, let's start all over again and change the provisions of the law. I think you should read this one more time, at least in full this member of the dispute, and you will see that its essence has actually already been declared unconstitutional and this is the decision of the Constitutional Court published in the Official Messenger 98/2013 since 8 November 2013. Of course, in front of the DHSS, I've intervened here, because I think a law that has a good goal and which is well set should only further advance its solutions in order to benefit everyone. As regards Article 13, I must also read that Member of the Bill and it is said that the fee relating to the conversion fee, which can be paid in a single amount or in 60 equal months of war, and the fee is paid in a single amount, the applicant shall be entitled to a reduction of up to 30% in respect of a fixed amount of compensation, etc., that I do not read the whole of this Article 13. I believe that it, both Article 4 and point 2), 3) and 5, should be deleted, while Article 17 of the proposed solution, in the form that is ahead, is not completed, and should be completed so that this potentially new member would read that if the payment of the fee is made to the wars, then the competent authority for the affairs of the state diameter and the cadastre with the registration of property rights at the same time enters the mortgage, of course, in favour of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, or the local self-government unit. I think that this supplement is necessary precisely for the reason that the existing solution opens up opportunities for abuses. The bottom line is that security is just being provided in terms of mortgages or stocks on other real estates and that a book is being held on the basis of the first war. As the acquisition of property in our right is always about the book, then we come to the situation, in fact, that in this solution that a person who has not paid the price, it is literally credited, nothing else, is actually credited, because he can actually sell the plot, for example, to sell immediately, and then to stop paying the determined fee later, and we are all witnesses of what happened and in what ways when the assessments were made at the pawnage and mortgage. As for predicting a stateless stock, I think such a solution is absolutely unacceptable, because you're asking the question of how you're going to ensure the safety of the billing. There's a very simple answer. You can't provide that in any way, because that kind of billing security simply doesn't exist. This is especially so that it insists on what is already mentioned here, which is that 50% of the funds made by conversion will go to the Restitution Fund. Of course, and on this point, I have submitted an amendment that I think is meaningful and that in a better way regulates what I was just talking about. Of course, I'm going to support this law anyway, because we're finally coming to what I said at the very beginning, and we're sorting out our own relationships that we were supposed to do a long time ago. Since the time has come to an end, as far as the bill amending the Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia is concerned, when we discussed this bill of law here and talked about the matter it deals with, which is exactly the removal of the consequences of the flood, and then I said that this deadline, which was given to the original text, was extremely short, that the consequences of the flood of Serbia would not eliminate the moment when this law ceases to apply and freely, and that you put and extended the period of validity of this law for another five years, absolutely nothing would have been wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31636	I thank Miss Batic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31637	Thank you for your comments. When we talk about Article 6, pages 2 and 3, and how we're going to consider, as well as Article 13, about Article 6, about the ambiguity and about this part where you're saying that eventually we're going to come to what we don't want to come to. So that's something we're going to consider together. I'd go back to restitution. Once again, this is a law that cannot resolve the issue of restitution and our goal is to protect all those who are in the process of restitution. You know that only if the owner of the privatisation has accepted in the contract that if there is a restitution he agrees with it, that is, that is to say, it is only in that situation that it is possible. In all other situations, it goes to damages. It's possible to run now, and without this law. All the amendments you've given, we'll take a look. As for the Law of Floods, I remember a comment earlier, and I hope that we will still succeed in this shorter period of time, by the end of the year, to finish the jobs that are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31638	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has Dr Vesna Besarovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31639	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, honourable fellow MPs, the Law on the Conversion of the right of use to property on building land with a fee or popularly referred to as "Conversation Law" is ahead of us, after a long time. We've been waiting for him, the professional public and, above all, for the businessmen. There is a very important reason to pass this law – ending property transformation on city building land, in line with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in line with the Constitutional Court decision we already had the opportunity to quote. In fact, the conversion has become possible since the 2009 Act, when it was first passed the Law on its own transformation in privatisation and bankruptcy procedures. However, this law was quickly shown in its good and bad light. Article 102 of that law has not come to a good solution. Under Article 102 of the 2009 Law, which later suffered two audits, in 2011 and 2014, all registered holders of the right to use acquired the possibility to enter property rights on construction land without compensation, except for several categories of persons listed in paragraph 9. These categories of persons could not become property owners, i.e. land owners, to become property holders on construction land with compensation. It has thus violated the market principle, the principle of acquiring property with compensation, which is transparent, modern, which allows for the continuation and completion of the property transformation process. And that was the basic reason that motivated the Ministry and all other competent services to initiate the process of changing this Article 102, i.e. to allow five categories of persons to acquire property rights on building land. Those categories of faces are listed in Article 1 and I especially will not quote them now. So they are now able to convert the right of use into property rights, so by the conversion process, by paying compensation determined by the unit of local self-government. Here I would completely agree with a colleague who expressed doubts about the capacity of the local self-government unit to assess the market value of the building land, i.e. the cadastrian plot that is subject to conversion. It may be possible to consider, in addition to the units of local self-government, that the tax authority participates in the value assessment and that, if nothing else, it has a better insight into the methodology for assessing market value. The right to convert shall be those persons who are holders of the right to use on building land and, as such, are entered in a public book on the registration of immovable property. This is proof of their active party legitimacy that they must endure in order to initiate a conversion procedure. The subject of conversion is a catastrian plot, and it is nothing controversial. However, we now come to the question of how to pay. The fee provided for by the draft law in Article 13, mentioned by counterpart Batic, is that it can be paid in a single amount or in 60 equal months of war with the activation of security funds. The question arises – is it possible to install some security mechanism to preserve the value of those 60 equal months of war, which is actually five years, for the next five years? Suppose we're going to have a small and controlled inflation, but what if that inflation gets out of hand and that amount is partially devalued for the next five years? I don't want to think about being completely, but being partially defecated. The question of enrollment is immediately on the line of this thinking, that is, the person who paid the fee in general, of course, has the right, with the presentation of evidence that he paid the fee, to ask for the registration of his property rights on the catastrian plot he bought. The person who has been defined for the payment of 60 months of war, if we allow him to enroll, of course, there is a security, and we don't install in that member that users of that money, which is the Agency for the Restitution and Units of Local Self-Government, will have the opportunity to intervene if he doesn't stop paying the war or alienate that catastrian plot, I think it can be questioned the quality of this legal provision, which is, as we read now, good, but we know that life can very easily deny it. On the line of that same thought is the lease situation. The law foresees, and that is the solution we already had, that it can also be defined for the conclusion of a long lease contract for 99 years and that in that case the value of the cadastrian parcel is divided into 99 equal annual wars. No Valorization clause is foreseen. Can we imagine that for the next 99 years, the value of our domestic currency will be the same as it is today, and do we not face the risk that in 15, 20 years, it will be degraded, and 50 years from now, it will be completely degraded? My suggestion, my proposal, or our party's proposal, is to consider the possibility of ensuring with some parameter the value of this 99-year war is preserved. I think we've included the most important things in the bill. Our party, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, will vote in favour of the bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31640	Thank you, Mrs Besarovic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31641	Thank you. Just to remove a few concerns. You mentioned about 60 wars, or five years later, the latest lease issue. In both cases, we refer in the law to the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, and we say – to the lease provided for in Article 1, the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, which regulates the lease of building land, which provides for annual harmonisation. So it can't happen that in one, two, five, ten, thirty years it's absolutely nothing. Also, when you talk about the capital of local self-government, once again, complete possession of the documents is practically tax administration. It is the one who will determine the value, and the unit of local self-government, or the Property and Legal Affairs Service, will, if there is a need for a reduction in value, do the simplest accounting operation with the difference that the ministry will actually supervise and exercise control and help, as in the Law on Planning and Construction we do with each local self-government, so we will work with anyone who goes into the application of this law. As for the catastra, which you mentioned, the implementation is concerned by the owner, but the monitoring depends on who owns it, at the state level for the Ministry of Finance, or local self-government, therefore, depending on who owns it. That's, I'd say, four basic questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31642	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31643	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice President, I must first of all express my dissatisfaction that we are discussing this law today less than three days after we have received this legislative proposal. The legislative proposal, which was on the Internet, could be seen on Friday afternoon, and the debate began today on Monday morning on a very important law. You didn't say at first, you spoke in a few short sentences about this law, you said among other things how the government works, but you didn't say that let's say the government was late with the adoption of this law for a month. Namely, the amendments and additions to the proposal on planning and construction, which we brought in December last year, we had six months to pass this law. That deadline stood out in mid-June. Somewhere, it seems to me, the least of the problems, but it speaks about how this law has been put on the agenda and what may be the hidden intention of this law, because I cannot understand why, if the deadline that the Government has given itself has already been exceeded, so it has not respected it, it has not left enough time for us MPs to prepare ourselves for this debate. I have to admit, the most I've learned about this law is from colleagues who spoke before me today and thank them for that. I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a builder, but I've been doing politics for a long time, and I know when things like this work out in a hurry that there's some hidden interest, some interest groups, as we've found in a previous law, which you've explained here, in the interpretation of the law, and now thank God it's good that there's no such term. There's a fact that there's been a public debate, but suddenly there's been some silence for a few months and only this law overnight was created in the procedure before us MPs and we today seem to have no chance of having a quality debate with you because you're certainly better prepared than all of us here, because we just haven't had enough time. There are a few things I want to look back on with this law. So, the fact is that this problem exists for many years in the Republic of Serbia and that it was tried for the first time to solve when a new Law on Planning and Construction was adopted after the adoption of the new Constitution in 2006. Various announcements were what the results of this conversion would bring. The fact is that in two years after the adoption of the Law on Conversion there was growth in the construction industry both in 2010 and 2011, the state was doing something to help the construction industry without doing anything since 2012. Then, by the end of December 2012, the government, whose member you are, at the end of December 2012, brought amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction and then Minister Vojislav Ilic said, among other things, that the conversion was a matter of corruption and that, as such, it should be abolished, that the land it belongs to should be given free of charge and that it would open up, result in two billion euros of investment waiting and that it would be the result of changes that then parliament, meaning, almost three years ago, and it was a proposal from this government, your government, adopted, to start the construction industry. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. On the contrary, we have a further decline in the construction industry, and today it is the construction industry, the construction of Serbia on the lowest branches in its history, and now by passing this law, it is again promised that the construction industry will have a boom, that along with the new ones, or the measures adopted by the Law on Planning and Construction, that construction permits will be issued within 28 days, will start a strong development of the construction industry, but I have to express my skeptic that this will actually happen. The problems here have not been just laws in the past few years, but also the problem of administration, not the reaction of public utility companies. So, some municipalities, according to the old Law on Planning and Construction of 2009 issued a building permit within 30 days, but were well organized and could do so. There are few such municipalities in Serbia, but they could. You can see that in these municipalities. These are municipalities that have, as a rule, attracted the most investment in the last few years. That's where the industrial zones were made. New factories are opening up. Other municipalities simply failed or did not want to get along. Now a few things, you said, that was very interesting to me, that this law is in accordance with the Constitution. You know, every law passed by the Assembly, the Assembly brings in confidence that it is in accordance with the Constitution. Our Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs says that the law is in accordance with the Constitution, however, it is the Constitutional Court that gives a final assessment and we have had numerous examples when the Constitutional Court assessed that the laws do not comply with the Constitution, although the debate always says that it is in accordance with the Constitution. So, if this law is in accordance with the Constitution, we shall see. I'm sure he'll meet him at the Constitutional Court, too. Here I read a part of the argument of the Constitutional Court of 2013 which says – the right to use building land acquired in privatisation, bankruptcy, or executive procedure can be converted into property by paying the market price of land. So that was the basis for removing that part of the Law on Planning and Construction that talked about reducing the value of land on the basis of the assets invested by someone buying a company in privatisation. You've now predicted another way of reducing to built surfaces and we'll see, on surfaces under objects, I apologize, I'll try to make termological as precise as possible, in the Constitutional Court whether this will pass now. I'm sure there will be some complaints to the Constitutional Court, so that the court will see whether this law is in accordance with the Constitution or not at the end of the Constitutional Court. All of us here when we vote and discuss some of the laws we believe they are in accordance with the Constitution on our best knowledge. This law is said to have no direct costs per citizen, the adoption of this law, and the budget, and it is said and you said it in your statement that it is expected that in the coming years, we do not know what deadline – next year, it expects the Republic's Restitution and Budget Fund to be fuller, it is some indicative estimate of 631.4m euros individually. So, something over a billion and 200 million euros, and I think it's a very important law. If we're passing a law today that can have such great effects, I think we should have had a little more time to consult and discuss it. You have also heard many colleagues who are willing to vote for this law, who have had very important, very serious suggestions on certain solutions under this law, which this law provides for, because if such an inflow were to be secured in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, it is quite significant, I think, a very significant income and I think we should seriously approach it. What we think is not well arranged is that there is no appeal to the value of land, that price is determined by the authority of local self-government. You explained that he would consult with the Tax Administration about the price, and that the competent authority for the property issues of local self-government would conduct the whole procedure and that when the price is determined in the law, it said that the legal person who requested it has a three-day deadline to determine how that price would be paid, whether it would go to this 60-month period or would pay immediately, with this reduction of 30%, as you predicted. So there's no legal remedy at the value of the assessment and we think it's bad, that there just has to be two degrees in every procedure, even in this. Also, the lack of this law is, as we see, that no deadline has been defined until when conversion has to be made, so that question remains completely open, and this possibility of renting for 99 years has been left. It seems very fair at first sight, you know, set the market price for the current land, so divide it into 99 and then determine the monthly war. The question is what happens to that land in those 99 years, whether it loses its value or not, what in that case happens to war, not only in terms of, I don't know, inflation or harmonisation in accordance with the law, but only land, whether or not it gets value or not because of some circumstances, and then someone pays, if it's land today in some unattractive part of some local self-government where it hasn't or isn't planned to develop for some 20 years, then today this war will be small, in 20 years, by developing a city or a municipality, that land can become very attractive, and someone will then have the right to use it and build on it, paying a very small price of rent? We think it might be necessary to go to another price, because normally the land price is revolving through an investment within 10 to 15 years, so this deadline for us is too long. What we also think is a problem, it's a discrepancy of the applicable laws, means the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on State Time and Catastrophe. They don't have this category -- the total area below the facility, they don't recognize that category, and now this law introduces it into the legal system, and the question is what will happen and how it will be interpreted. I agree with a colleague who said that this law has been written quite complicated, through some long sentences that even lawyers can't fully understand, so it's likely that a lot will be interpreted by the ministry in the coming period what specific members mean and how the law will be applied, which is bad. The laws should be clearly written, that the laymen, as I am in this case, can understand, because, to be honest, several times I read Articles 8, 9 and 6 and I wasn't quite sure what they meant. I admit that I wasn't sure, but well, I don't have any company, I'm not privatized, I'm not going to use any of the rights that some will acquire by this law, but I think it's bad, that it leaves room for manipulation, leaves for what Minister Ilic has said in his time, that the conversion is a matter of corruption, that this law will not cure it, and that we will be aware in months and years that these legal solutions have only been answered by some. In these three days, I haven't been able to figure out who some of these laws are going to fit. The second law that's on the agenda today is pretty short and clear, I have to admit. The bill amending the Law on the Elimination of Floods, as you yourself said, only one thing changes, which is the extension of this law to a little less than six months, i.e. by the end of the year. We are against this, first because we believe that if we need to extend the period of validity of this law, then we need to have a serious debate about what it is and how it has worked so far and how this record has been conducted. You didn't say much in the opening statement. You said later, you said that more than 20,000 citizens were helped, that the aid was over 43 billion dinars, that 120 locations were carried out to work worth two billion, repairs, dams and waterways, and that the key reason was that 62m euros from the Solidarity Fund were determined in May this year to spend. I have to be honest, I'm not sure that within this time limit that you've provided for by law, it can be done at all, to spend that money. Simply knowing the way our administration works and everything that's been going on and what the office's been going on in the past year in the process of working on a recovery and removing damage from the floods, I don't think it just gives any hope that in six months we can finish this whole job. So at the end of the year, we'll meet again in a situation of whether to extend this deadline again or to sort out this problem in a systematic way. You said there was a plan to legislate, but I, don't take it as evil, I simply doubt the government's plans, because that was the plan at the beginning, I repeat that the law on conversion until June, now it's July, so we're just passing it now. I am afraid that the law that should systematically resolve the removal of the consequences of the catastrophic situation in Serbia will also not be passed by the end of this year. Then we'll have the situation we have now, and we'll set a deadline for the application of this law. I think it's much better to solve things systemically, not lex specialis and ad hoc laws. From all this and from not having a serious debate, today may also be the director of the office to talk about the problems he has encountered, I know that they have submitted something over three thousand applications for various abuses in the assignment, I have no doubt of their work and transparency and the way they have worked, but these experiences deserve a serious debate, and not like this, with the law on conversion, which is very serious and needs the Republic of Serbia to provide significant resources, put this point as a small addition that someone will talk about, someone will not talk about, and we will ultimately just vote it without a big debate. These are the reasons why we cannot support these legal solutions as they are proposed today, and above all, I am referring to the conversion law. We have given one number of amendments, I must admit that, listening to the debate of fellow Members, we have not covered all the issues and it will be important not only to us how our amendments will be seen by you and the Government, but all the amendments, because there are good ideas and needs to correct this law, but in this form as proposed, we cannot support these two draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31644	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31645	You said a lot, but I didn't really have specific suggestions, except for qualifications that were bad, that you were unhappy, etc., but I'll try for a few, I think, important things, though, to repeat them, as I said in the previous period. Of course, no state authority, and it applies to this government and this Ministry, will ever suggest anything that is contrary to the Constitution. But when I was saying that it was in accordance with the Constitution, I thought first of all that the solutions in this Law on Conversion were directly conditioned by the Constitutional Court's decision of 2013, where we had a situation where the Constitutional Court's decision practically stopped the process of conversion itself. Not to mention that since 2009, a regulation that was so complicated, i.e. with two regulations that were so complicated, which the previous governments had adopted, which was not the government in which the SNS was sitting, so the conversion could not be done. Only one conversion has been made in Belgrade's territory for all this time, which speaks of how well the law was done and what those regulations looked like. We're correcting something that should have been fixed a long time ago, agreeing with some MPs, so it's over. You said there was no possibility of a complaint. You're wrong. If you look at the law, you have the right to see that there's an objection and that's Article 12, that's the last attitude. The applicant, therefore, has the right to object to the Act of the Local Tax Administration within 15 days of the date of delivery, by appeal resolves the municipal, or city major units of local self-government on whose territory is the building land which is subject to conversion. It's the latest practice of the administrative court. So that and how it stands in the law, and that's where you're wrong. You also have a complaint about the solution, the possibility of filing a complaint for the solution. When you were talking about a deadline, one thing, it's impossible to touch into acquired rights. So in that sense, we couldn't put in the deadline that you mentioned. Also, you were talking about a 99-year-old period. I didn't realize what the problem was, so maybe through the amendments you'll deliver it to us. The law is not inconsistencies with any law. What will also wait for us in the next period, I can say that the public debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Preference and Catastro has been concluded. I believe that, in that sense, we will have one round continent, the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Conversion, the Law on Preference and Catastrophe. The law has been in public debate for a long time, and I can say in general that since last year, since August, the Law on Planning and Construction, and afterwards economic analysis and discussions on the draft Law on Conversion, they have been constantly in public debate and I believe that there has been enough time to make comments, but through amendments we will have the opportunity to see it. As for the Law on the extension of the Flood Act, I agree with you that things need to be resolved systematically. The situation in which we found ourselves last year was such that it was necessary to pass the law, a law that would in a clear, transparent and transparent way show what we were actually doing and how we are doing to resolve the consequences of the flood, but also to deal with possible future floods. Therefore, the Emergency Risk Management Act, which will be found very quickly in the public debate, is a system law that will remain, and this law will live by the end of this year and by the end of this year we will end with the jobs and projects that we have already mentioned, not to list again. Also, at the request of each committee in parliament, the Office and the Office representatives are always there to come and discuss everyone, not just the problems they have encountered, but everything and the way they have solved the problems of the flood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31646	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Balsa Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31647	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Minister, honored guests, respected citizens, you passed the Law on Planning and Construction at the end of last year. Then you promised two things here in front of the MPs and the public in Serbia, the issue of construction permits in 28 days and the Law on Conversion by 1 March of this year. None of the other things have been fulfilled. That's when you literally ripped the conversion out of the Planning and Construction Act, to our general surprise and the general miracle that we found ourselves in. At that time, we referred to the possibility of unremembered corruption in Serbia, which has not occurred in the history of this country, and above all when it comes to those enterprises and those disputed 23 privatisations from the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, because this allowed those owners of the land on which they had until then the right to use, and also today, to have the right to local conditions, or to obtain a building permit. That possibility referred to unremembered corruption, to something called crime, and for that reason we strongly advocated against such a tycoon law, and we voted against it with both hands. You came eight months later with a bill of conversion, which has such provisions that I wouldn't be surprised if it was written for example. in Lucy Belgrade. This paper that we got today, which represents the bill of conversion, smells like a dirty task that you've come here to carry out. The same as signing a contract on "Belgrade on Water", which we haven't had a chance to see until today, because we don't know what's so hidden from the citizens if it's in the interest of all of us. It is the first thing that, in addition to this decision of the Constitutional Court of 2013, which I hold in my hand, which has actually unconstitutionally declared the 2009 conversion. Why? Because the 2009 law made those who made suspicious businesses pay for the conversion. The law allowed one more thing, one discount that represented the market value of land, a minus the price someone paid for the company in one of those privatisations. On the picturesque case of Luke Belgrade, this seems to be next. So 400m euros cost the market value of land, minus 40m as much as someone's business partner paid for the company, is equal to 360m euros. So much under the law, the owner of Luke Belgrade had to pay to acquire property over land where he had until then the right to use. The Constitutional Court said - gentlemen, there is no discount, anyone who wants property rights must pay the full value of land, the market value of land. The Constitutional Court reacted perfectly justly and justly and overturned that decision where such cases were granted a discount. The solutions proposed by this bill are, for a simple reason, even more controversial, and I will say why. The most problematic member is the 8th of this bill, under which the building land is given in property without compensation, which practically devises the conversion of the right of use into property rights in addition to compensation, which was, as we understand it, the fundamental intensity of this bill. They're halls, they're temporary facilities, they're warehouses. And if we take Luke Belgrade again, you'll understand what I'm talking about. In Article 8, as suggested, as we have received in this integrated version, which is also the most controversial member of this bill, it is actually a way to give huge and large complexes of industrial and similar land to owners of companies without compensation. This is what will damage the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina and all local municipalities and cities, and thus the fund when it comes to the Restitution Fund. The projected funding of a billion and 492m euros is given to tycoons and to those who all know how they got huge capital into 23 controversial privatisations. That's what this law is about. Someone is paying back some old debts from 2012, and in 2012 we referred to and suspected and today we welcomed that day to pass the law of the state and the people and to propose a law that is at least criminal. There is no reason why the building land would be given to the owners of companies free of charge. This provision is most directly devising this whole bill. In his title, he's called "Conversation with Compensation," and it's actually something else. This land, as you know very well, can and may be re-designed, may already be re-designed, and these are data that are also hidden from the eyes from the public. The purpose found is one, the basic purpose of these companies and the activity is one, and then the basic activity has been extinguished, only to attract huge land, for example in Belgrade, for example in Novi Sad and large centres in Serbia, and to change the intentions from basic to residential, residential, commercial and other. This solution is contrary, therefore, to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. A member of 84 was also violated. A constitution that speaks of everyone having the same position on the market. Someone is allowed to acquire property without compensation, and someone paid a fee for it. And why one? That's what we had a chance to hear today. And why is only one conversion done? For a simple reason, because changes and additions to the law, both Velimir Ilic and you personally are allowed for land users to receive local, or building permits. No one, therefore, has been paid to make a conversion. Why would anyone do that? This is thus unthinkable and represents a completely unnecessary cost for anyone who has in a suspicious way acquired his capital in Serbia. It would be very scary to also prove that such a thing has been done in business-political interests, the donation of billions and 429 million. We're also talking about the Rehabilitation Act today. We're extending the deadline by the end of the year. You yourself said September 1st last year. Here, a year later the job isn't done. Why? Simply because there are no funds, because the government of the Republic of Serbia has its priorities, because what was brought down in the floods has not continued to be restored. There's no funding, and it's worth a billion and 429 million. You've got people here who've been back in construction for years, doing projects. What could be done for that money? Could we get our salaries and pensions back? Would you return this difference that has been unconstitutionally reduced? Do we have to raise this much property tax, the price of electricity? Should we increase VAT by a billion and 429 million euros? We could have built a two-wheel track, a fast track between Belgrade and Novi Sad. What could we do for that money? We could have ended Corridor 11, since it was brought into question, which I hope you have so much honesty for yourself to say. It's a shame for a government to pass laws like this without a shred and a grain of patriotism in them. The second idea of this law is for unbuilt land, too, for those who will not be paid without compensation, to sign a lease contract until conversion, thus also avoiding the tycoon from paying for land conversion and thus obtaining property rights. That's how you avoid it. Why? Because there is no time limit in the law, there is no penalty if someone within a certain time limit does not make a conversion of land from the right of use to property rights in addition to compensation. You made it possible to conclude a 99-year contract, with a market price divided by 99 years to get an annual land lease. Why would anyone want to make a land conversion? I ask you a simple question – because there is no interest in paying the conversion if he can have a lease guaranteeing him obtaining a building permit. Changes and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction, you personally proposed here in the Serbian Parliament, since 1 March of this year. What does that mean? Well, that means it's cheaper for the tycoons to close the lease agreement. This means that by changing and supplementing your property tax law from 2013, which led to this kind of property tax increase this year, citizens of Serbia and Belgrade no longer have to pay a tax on property, when it comes to renting land, and you have freed them from it. You create a society of so many differences, that you have 1% not of the rich, but of the rich. The oligarchs, like your partners, and everyone else. While you and your partners have been living better in Serbia for the last three years, everyone else lives much, much worse. This is the fourth year of your term, and you say the DS is responsible for building absolutely nothing in Belgrade and Serbia. So we can go back years, when it comes to compensation for the construction of city-building land, in Belgrade 2008, the crisis year, 110m euros. Here, Milutin Mrkonjic is present here, so he can confirm. In 2009, a crisis year, 90m euros. In 2008, 80 million euros. Do you know what year it is? Fifteen million euros. It is a picture and an opportunity of what the construction industry in Serbia and the capital today represents. Not to talk about Novi Sad, not to talk about the ropes. There are some who are more competent than I am. There are no sanctions, there are no deadlines for conversion, and that is, the mockery of those who are the richest in Serbia will come from the day after tomorrow, or Wednesday, when the law is passed. Who needs this law to go to? To whom, if you pass laws that benefit those who own Luke “Belgrade”? This law is not in favour of Serbian citizens. He's in the interest of Milan Beck, and you know it very well. Some MPs resigned that year in 2012, when they suspected something like this because they were being threatened, because they were being followed, because different strange things were happening to them, and I would like to see if something like that would happen to me. Article 18 also states that the market price is completely unclear when it comes to the lease of land. In the end, we had the opportunity to amend and supplement all the laws that we have passed in this assembly, which you have personally, and where your colleagues have come and proposed the same or similar, that today in the most critical times for Serbia, when citizens live the most difficult since 1990, to this day, when they do not have to pay basic bills for neither the electricity nor the basic provisions of life, when they do not have to pay the property tax, when the secret nationalisation of someone's property is done, because when a tax is 800% higher, then we bring him to the point that he has to give his entire property in order to reconcile that charge. Today, we give up a billion and 429 million, at a time when Serbia is starving, at a time when the number of unemployed is unremembered, at a time when only 15m euros in compensation for regulating the city's construction land in Belgrade, which you yourself know is less than 100,000 squares. The Constitutional Court's decision will be inconceivable, and when it comes to this law, so have fellow MPs today confirmed, who participated in this debate. The 2013 decision states that this law is against the constitution. We're saying this law won't attract new investments. We are talking about that he will not do good to the interests of citizens and the state, above all, of local municipalities and cities. You talked today about the prevention of floods, and flood prevention is exclusively on the budgets of municipalities and cities in Serbia, and in this way you take away money from municipalities of towns from Serbia. No one will have the interest of paying one single dinar for conversion from the right to use land to property rights, none. What you've brought here today is a law that is exclusively in the interest and in relation to its provisions, I assume, written in Lucy Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31648	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31649	Our first interest, the interest of the Serbian government, is the protection of public interest. The law you passed was, first of all, against the law. So, against the law you passed. The conversion as a concept is what you've brought in. So she didn't bring in the SNS. You stopped construction in Serbia, not SNS. It's not about 24 suspicious privatisations, it's about 650 suspicious privatisations, tycoon, robbery, in your time, which are in the end of the contract or in the dispute. Was it the Democratic Party or did it the SNS? Well, that's what the Democratic Party did. So, further unremembered, as you say here, I really think that auto-projection is a miracle, unremembered corruption, tycoon law, a dirty task, business-technical corruption, a law in the interest of certain tycoons, then oligarchs working with you. You said it all in this law. I think it's a feature of your work over the past ten years. While you were in power, you passed the law for your tycoons friends and for all those who privatized and destroyed Serbia. You put us in a position that a year ago, or two years ago, we tried and saved Serbia, which is one of the deficits that you've created, which is precisely these suspicious and looting privatisations. No finding you've said is true about this law. So either you didn't read it well or they didn't write you well, or those who are your shadow ministers, who just made the biggest problem in the urbanism of this country didn't give you the right information. So, let's get going, that when you speak, you've abolished the compensation for the use of construction land, we didn't do it. When you talk about a billion and 400m euros going out of the budget, read another law. It is money that enters the budget or the Fund for Restitution or the budget of Serbia, the province and local self-government, not from. "U" and "from" are two different things, giving different comments. Next, what's interesting is what you said here. In 2009, when the law was passed, the regulations you passed, you brought your tycoons to your friends, and that is the biggest problem, and that is why we are making this law today. That's why today we're trying to correct everything that you've done wrong, and obviously you've done wrong because of you. When I speak to you, I don't mean you personally, I mean the party you represent. So, because of your party, it wasn't working here and it was building. When you say that permits are not given for 28 days, then you really or don't walk in Serbia or live in Serbia. Building permits are given in Belgrade in seven days. It never was. It wasn't while you were doing it. The law on planning and building is a law that led to the construction industry working here, that is, the construction industry here is going to increase its share. When you talk about Corridor 10 and 11, you really know absolutely nothing. Well, why didn't you build those high-speed tracks? Well, why didn't you finish Corridor 10 in the last 10 years? Well, is there a country in the world that hasn't ended in a few hundred miles in ten years? You're not finished. And not only did you not finish it, but you watched to destroy everything that is domestic and domestic. Unlike you here, it's going to be domestic industry and domestic economy. And, unlike you, solutions are legally made in the public interest of the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia and not in the interest of the tycoon you worked with. Luka Belgrade, at least inform yourself, the Serbian government will bring a port area that does not fall under the law. The dispute is being conducted, as long as Luka Belgrade is being slowed down, it is not the subject of this conversion and this law. So, when you start talking about it and your acuity, then first, you get to know yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31650	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. You're up for what, Mr. Bozovic? Do you think you have the right to a replica? [[Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I guess I have the right to a replica.]] (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Well, the Democratic side has been mentioned 15 times. 15 times the Democratic Party is mentioned. Here, on the mention of the Democratic Party, I just wanted to hear from you the basis, without being sufflied by Mr. Markovic and the others. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic, a two-minute replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31651	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Prime Minister Mihajlovic, so you're playing a chess game, and across the street is the state and the interest of the people. I ask you to watch every move, because you must know that after every game of chess and king and pawn go into the same box. We charged the tycoons something that you give them for free today. So much for the interests of the citizens and the interests of Serbia. In 2009, the Democratic Party said anyone who thus acquired property must pay, you are giving it to them today without compensation. You're talking about permits in seven days, and I don't know if you know that in Belgrade, which is the largest construction centre in Serbia, was once in Southeast Europe during the Democratic Party, you have 30 permits issued this year. Thirty permits and you're talking about something that fueled the development of the construction industry. I think that's funny to you, too. You are talking about Luke Belgrade's dispute, many disputes ended very quickly as it was in the interest of certain political and financial partners, so I have no doubt that this dispute will end as well. When you talk about the chambers they lobbied, there is no chamber where the loudest voice for conversion is free of charge, it was not Luka Belgrade. And why would she do that if she was in a dispute with the Republic of Serbia. This is why this law is passed. This is footage from the land satellite of the highest value in the city of Belgrade. West of the Pančeva Bridge is something that represents the land you gave without compensation to Lucy Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31652	I thank Mr. Bozovic. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31653	Again, I would ask you to sit down with your shadow minister who's made a general mess to the soul, but to sit down with your shadow minister and talk a little bit about this law and read this law again because everything you say is not true again. So that without compensation is land only for regular use, this law and what this government is doing is not a chess game. You're in the auto project again because when we talk about a chess game, then you're probably right, but we're working in the interests of citizens and in the interests of, above all, in the public interest. So you mention to the government as you say in the interest of the tycoon, you mention the court, you say the court doesn't do it right either. I really don't understand what you're talking about. So the Law on Land Conversion is here to solve the problems you've created. Everything you've done in the past ten years you've done from behind, in order that wasn't natural and normal for any country, you're the only one who did it in Serbia. You've made suspicious, looting privatisations, and then you're only going to solve the property, so in the end, you've made a law that's against the constitution, and today you're talking about this law not being good. When you talk about issuing building permits just to tell you in the last three months, a total of 2,800 building permits have been issued on Serbia's territory, which is 35% more than in three months of the previous year. So much for the Law of Planning and Construction, which you also claim is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31654	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31655	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Mrs Mihajlović, fellow Members and fellow MPs, after the amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction and indeed successful implementation of the law in practice, one of the most important laws in the area of construction, in the area of the economy, is from the financial sector that we are discussing today. It is an important law on conversion because it affects the change in the form of property from usefulness to property, and it concerns state property that is the most important resource in every country, and that is why we need to approach this law and this problem at all with a lot of responsibility and a lot of attention. The conversion should not in any way be regarded as a means to correct errors made by poor privatisation. We are otherwise a country where for years the rights on buildings are treated differently as property and land rights on which these same facilities are built as usefulness. With the entry into force of the Constitution in 2006, the problem began to be resolved. A legal possibility has been created for building land, except for state property, to be in private property. It is estimated that out of 21 million cadastar plots in Serbia, a third is building land. We've heard some information from you. I have some data, though I'm not quite sure they're entirely accurate. The data are from the catastra, and they say that after the Law on Planning and Construction of 2009 was introduced in general by the Institute of Conversion, as a way of transforming the right of use into property rights on construction land in the state property, some 15,000 requests for conversion with compensation were filed, out of which some 900 transactions were made, according to a report by the Treasury Office of the Ministry of Finance. We've heard from you that there's one in Belgrade. This applies to all of Serbia. I'm saying, I'm not sure that this information is correct, and it's been charged around 250 million dinars. It is clear that, from the experience that we all have, the Institute of Conversion did not live in either the scope, nor the form in which it was meant, and the main problem of the current legal solution is, in fact, the wrong concept on which the conversion was based. You yourself said that there was no political will to solve this problem properly, and this all negatively reflected both the construction industry and the investor's intention to build, because, first of all, investors who build wanted to have property on the land on which they built. Foreign investors do not at all recognise the right to use but only the right to property, so this adoption of the law on conversion has affected construction, for this reason, stopped to some extent. For the country, there is a big problem for those land users who received this land before 2003, according to the conditions and by the laws that were in force at the time, and there was a deadline for this land to be brought to the fore. You mentioned that certain parcels were not brought in, so you brought it in connection with that the conversion law was not passed, but you also know that there are also land users who had just taken the land under these conditions before 2003, waiting to pass a law on conversion that would allow them to change their usefulness in ownership to further resell the land. The conversion is a very sensitive question. Above all, a sensitive issue for the state, a sensitive issue for all those businessmen and investors who bought companies from privatisation or bankruptcy. A sensitive question for all participants in the process of restitution, for all those who want to build and on land have no property but a usefulness, and all those who are actually interested in solving this problem have different interests and different views and different views, so it was really hard to make a law that would satisfy all interests and blend with the views of all those who are interested in solving the issues. But you know for yourself that the bottom line is, how much is it going to cost? In addition, of course, the way the conversion is going to take place, and will there be any relief, but the essence of all is how much will it cost? The legal basis for the collection of land conversion is the fact that the legal entities sold in the privatisation process did not even have the right to ownership on land, but the right to benefit. All those who bought the legal entity knew what they were buying. They bought the company's capital, they didn't buy the land. On the other hand, we know that at the price when it was calculated who was going to pay, they also calculated the value of the land and that in fact it was most interesting in everything and was the location where the companies were located, that the most interesting was the land that companies had and that it affected the price they would pay. The state and the law made it possible at that time, although it was known that mostly at some lower prices, I'm not going to say in vain, there were those who were actually paying a real price, but at lower prices, factories were bought just to make use of this land for commercial purposes. Now there is some controversy whether to pay, in general, in public opinion, whether this land should be paid at a fee, whether or not it should be released without paying compensation, it is our view that in cases where businesses and factories were bought without continuing to work, in order to expand production, to employ new workers, but when they were bought only to resell or say again, for commercial purposes, the position of our parliamentary group is of course that the conversion should be paid at market price and that in these cases the conversion should in fact be viewed exclusively as buying land from the state. I agree in one part of the discussion with my colleague Batic, concerning Article 6. I don't agree that you wanted to bring anything into the small door, of course. I think it's only here that this member is not sufficiently formulated, so it leaves room for a different interpretation. We didn't make the amendment because I think that this member should be processed as a whole so that it doesn't leave room for us to come into a dilemma that maybe some companies that have just been sold, or bought, are now being released from paying conversion fees. But there is another side of the story, what about those businesses and investors who bought businesses, continued to deal with the business of these companies, employ new workers, expand production, have land over which they have the right to use, and now they want to build on that land to continue to expand production, to continue to employ new workers? Is this law of this magnitude relevant to them, or is it by a regulation that you might free or pay for conversion in one part or another, but I think that certainly all those who want to further expand production, continue to do the same work of businesses, hire workers, that they should definitely be stimulated in a certain way? It is particularly important to establish precisely and clearly how the market value of the immovable property relates to both the buildings and the land. It is very dangerous to leave room for the determination of the market value of immovableity to be interpreted in two senses. I'm not sure what the Constitutional Court said in its decision when the estimate of the value of immovableity is, is there also one part that refers to that being done by the experts or there's room left for tax administrations to do so, I'm not sure, but I'm saying that there's still a lot of attention to this member and that, of course, the market value of the land that is bound to be converted, precisely because of this obligation to convert that the value of that land will certainly be reduced. Article 5 The proposal for a conversion law determines that the object of conversion is built or not built building land. The question for you, Mrs. Mihajlović, is - is it a condition for building land to provide evidence by applying for conversion that the facility that was built or the facilities, if there are more, which were built on that land have a building and use permit? Is that an obligation and what about land for which there are no planning documents? You know there are still municipalities in Serbia where the planning documents have not been made. I'm asking for a reason, because in practice, I've encountered cases that as the owner of the land the city, the local self-government, is irrelevant. It is irrelevant whether the building plot is built or not, but whether the building plot is not covered by the plan's document, so it is impossible to implement the conversion process, because ownership of the land cannot be established unless the land status is known. Even Article 83, 84. The Law on Planning and Construction states that construction land is used according to the purpose set by law and the planning document. I'm going back to the first question - is it mandatory to deliver both construction and use plots at the request, because that's what you're looking for when it comes to land conversion without compensation? I think it might have been right here, since we know that our services are interpreting laws and what problems there are in the interpretation of the law, that in this article, if you need both a building permit and a service permit, you should have given it exactly that. Article 8. – the right to reduce the market value of the building land shall have persons referred to in Article 1(2) of this Act and it shall be said that they have the right to reduce the land area under buildings built on a catastrian plot in accordance with the law, which are buildings, silos, auxiliary buildings, etc. What if the investor didn't build it, I'm going back to the last question, he didn't build the facility according to the law, he doesn't have a building permit? So we're not enabling him, because that's where we get into the problem of legalizing such objects, because first you have to have property so you can legalize objects, so we understand each other. So, what about the objects that are listed under special conditions? So we have to do property on land again, and then we have to go legalizing the facilities. Given the complexity of the problem that this law is trying to address, and given that when writing this law has to be followed by a series of guidelines, it begins with a decision of the Constitutional Court, through the rules imposed on us by the EU, and to the obligation to protect the interests of all interested, because we have a duty not to harm anyone's rights, I also consider that this law, with minor corrections and with the adoption of our amendments, will be a good legal solution, so that the SPS parliamentary group will support the Law on Conversion in the day of voting. When we talk about the Law on the Elimination of Floods, a vital law for all of us, especially for our citizens living in endangered areas. One who once experienced the horrors that floods carry with him cannot be easily freed from the fear of new disasters. For everything that happened in May 2014, we are all responsible for both states and citizens and local self-government. A lot's been done, a lot's been removed. Of course, there's plenty left to do. There's still a lot of people at risk, and there's a need to do both the rinks and the shores. You should work on prevention. It should affect citizens that we ourselves must provide protection against floods, from accidents of such a type, precisely our own responsible behavior. We support the extension of the deadline, we even think that maybe this deadline should have been longer. Of course, the SPS parliamentary group will support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31656	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31657	Thank you for your comments. To begin with the extension of the period of validity of the Law on the Elimination of Floods, especially the topic of prevention that you mentioned, which is very important. We've been doing a lot of work on prevention for the past year, besides removing the effects of the flood. Among other things, we now have an agreement with the World Bank on the implementation of a project to improve the flood defence system through the construction of new facilities in Smederjevska Palanca, Aleksinac, Negotina, Nis, Sombor, Bačka Palanca, Raška and Novi Pazar. In addition, just as I mentioned the agreement and co-operation of the office with an EU delegation worth 72m euros, the majority is currently related to the prevention of future floods. In addition to the equipment for RHMZ, there is the purchase of mobile equipment for flood protection, there is the construction of an early warning system, there is the cleaning of sewers in Obrenovac and Surcin and the construction of entirely new infrastructure facilities for protection. So it's all prevention and everything is flood protection, both in Machva and Valjevo, Svilinca and Paracino. As for the Law of Conversion, a few things. About the article 6 that you mentioned, we are fully agreed that we should formulate it better and we will do so together through the amendments safely and safely. What is important to know, a regulation that will be and which is the only sublegal act to be done within the next month only concerns undeveloped building land, i.e. the degree of development of local self-government. The regulation will not and cannot cover local self-governments and first and second-degree cities, so those with GDP per capita above the republican average or between 80 % and 100%. This means, for example, the few times that Luka Belgrade mentioned will certainly have no reduction in market value because of the unbuilt land. So it'll all be paid. The essence of this law is to make a conversion, to go into property or lease rights, but to do all of this at market values. The IRS, of course there's a possibility, the witches or the IRS, you asked. We chose the tax administration. There are a lot of amendments and suggestions to accept and the possibility of an expert. We'll talk about it on the board. The tax administration is the first institution we thought could establish the market value of building and construction land. You also asked what the condition is, does the building land have to have a building permit? Of course, according to the law, they have to have a building permit so we can move on at all. As they were built under special conditions, which you also mentioned, they already have the right to property entered. Therefore, it goes on its course. If I happen to miss something, repeat it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31658	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of SNS National MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31659	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my discussion of today's law the way I wanted to do it, I can't help but look back at the nervous discussion of my colleague from DS, who was saying that the law we're passing today is a tycoon law. I want to say that the tycoon law, which was passed in 2009, then, repeated in 2011, was brought down by the Constitutional Court. But the last thing I expected today was for someone in this room to speak on behalf of the tycoon in a very nervous way, even mentioning a billion-to-400m-euro figure, which apparently had to be owed to the tycoons, as he promised that the country that was acquired in privatisation would be free. The country can't be free. That's what the Constitutional Court said. It is obvious that the intention of all the privatisations in the past time was simply to get cheap to the most fertile land, to come cheaply to the hectares and hectares of Serbia's most fertile land. Now I can also understand the nervous discussion of my previous Democratic Party colleague when he mentioned a billion-400m-euro figure. It is the figure he calculated in a way that the total figure to be paid for the conversion to the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course, that number doesn't go to the tycoons, but apparently, after so much mention, they're in debt to the tycoons and they have to say it out loud now. However, I will now return to the discussion as I wanted to begin to explain the law that is before us today. Namely, the bill on turning the right of use into property rights on building land with compensation is one of the logical traces and what we promised citizens and the economy of Serbia, when we brought amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction in December. We then provided in Article 102 for the cases where land can be allocated, i.e. it can be converted without compensation and tax, which are the cases where the conversion can be carried out with compensation and provided for a period of six months to pass one such law. Since the application of the Law on Planning and Construction began on 1 March of this year, we believe that by passing this law today, that is, during this week, we fully meet the deadline we promised. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I must stress that the competent ministry has worked very hard to prepare the very draft of this law and have done many economic analyses and have collected many data, above all, from municipalities and cities. They collected data from 137 municipalities and towns in Serbia from 167 towns and municipalities in Serbia. These are data on the very surface of the building land on which the persons are listed as carriers of use on the building land, and those persons from privatisation and bankruptcy. The ministry also requested data from the Republic Geodetic Institute on the total area of construction land in Serbia, then from the Privatisation Agency on the number of privatised business entities, as well as from the tax administration, so that they could reach the very price of land. What they came up with at the Ministry when doing this analysis is the following data – in Serbia we have a total of just over 660,000 hectares of building land. From this, according to data provided by 137 cities and municipalities across Serbia, 5,310 hectares should be a matter of conversion. So, when we subtract this part from the total area of 660,000 hectares, we actually get that the object of conversion should be something close to 0.8% of the total building land in Serbia, and on the condition that all those interested in conversion do so. Now we're going to come up with that figure that apparently has to be owed to the tycoons, which is a 1,430,000,000-euro figure. This is the figure that should be paid to the Republic of Serbia's budget under the Administration of Revenue, 50% to the Republic of Serbia's budget, and 50% to the budget of the Restitution Fund if at the market value of these 5,310 hectares, which are intended for conversion, and converted, or converted property rights into property rights on the property. As far as this data is concerned, as the Ministry states, in an analysis that is in favour of the law, they are not 100% accurate, because these data are not legally, i.e. they were not required to follow, so they were more used as an analysis and simply to establish a framework on how much land is being done and what would be the conversion, or the conversion process at all, of what would be done in Serbia. I have to say, this legal solution that's in front of us today is not a system solution. This isn't a system law. This is a law that tries to solve the problems that years ago have accumulated. If you were to offer someone to invest all their property or if some foreign investors came and offered to build it, to invest all their life savings in some facility on another's land, and tomorrow it might happen if someone took that land away from them with all their property, so what do you think someone would accept such a thing, would you accept such a thing? It goes in favor of what my colleague mentioned earlier in the discussion -- why would someone make a conversion? He didn't speak like that six months ago when the Law on Planning and Construction was on the agenda, when he was nervous about when the conversion, when the conversion, why wasn't an integral part of the Planning and Construction Act? So today I'm very surprised when he asks – why would someone make a conversion? It's really strange to me that someone wants to live in Serbia in suspense that the country they're building on and the country they're investing on may tomorrow be subject to restitution, or maybe tomorrow the state is taking away that property for any reason, so I just wouldn't ask the question - should a law like this be passed? As far as the bill itself is concerned, I believe that it is very detailed and clearly explained the procedure itself, as well as the deadlines in it. Also, as the name says, this conversion is done with compensation. The very amount of compensation shall be the market value at the time of submission of the request for conversion. Also, the bill stipulates that if the price is paid, or paid suddenly, it can be reduced by 30%, and the government of the Republic of Serbia's regulation will certainly prescribe what are the ways for the reductions, and that they will again comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. As far as the conversion itself is concerned, the procedure provided for by this law is very simple. The procedure shall be initiated by a person interested in the conversion by applying to the body of the unit of local self-government, engaged in property-legal affairs. The law also provides for a very simple procedure that should take a maximum of 30 days. In addition to the translation of the right of use into ownership, this law also provides for the right to long-term lease, as we have already heard in the previous discussion. The contract can be concluded with the owner of the land, on a 99-year long-term lease, by the fact that the annual fee will be the total market value of the land divided by 99. Also, what I have already stated is that this law stipulates that 50% of the revenues, which are scheduled to be paid for the cost of land conversion, will be paid into the budget of the Restitution Fund, while the other 50% in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. landowners, local self-government units, or the city. I'm sorry to see that there are no criminal provisions in this law for those who will enforce this law. So there are no criminal provisions for the administration, but I'm glad to see the Ministry is going to control and educate employees by the local self-governments that this law is going to enforce. It is also important to say that there are no additional costs for the implementation of this law, because there is no large amount of work planned, and business itself will be distributed within what property-legal services are already doing. As we have already heard, the law has received many positive opinions. Among other things, he received a positive opinion from the European Commission, and a broad public debate has been held on cities across Serbia, attended by many businessmen, many who are interested and who will be users of this law, and that their objections have certainly been included, or have become an integral part of this law. Personally, I think this is a good legal solution, one good proposal. I believe that the problem in Serbia must be resolved in this area and that property transformation must finally end on construction land in Serbia. As regards the draft law amending the Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia, as explained in the very explanation of the law, the reason for the extension is to continue to provide legal assistance to natural and legal persons who have suffered damage from natural disasters in the area affected by floods, and until the entry into force of a special law which will, in a comprehensive way, resolve the management of risks from natural disasters. What I want to point out today are the facts that speak, of course in favour of this extension, which is next -- in a year material aid has been paid to a total of 20,288 households across Serbia, totaling 4,83 billion dinars. From the Red Cross, 210 euros were paid for 12,671 households. 435 families whose houses were destroyed were taken care of, and 244 houses were completed, while 191 families received money in cases where house construction was not possible. Co-operation with the EU and Switzerland is currently working on building 96 new housing units in Obrenovac and Lazarevic. So far, the aid has been granted to 673 sub-optimal families, totalling 48.6 million dinars. Almost half a billion dinars for grants were allocated to the economy in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The aid is planned to be paid between 240 000 and 600,000, so we can calculate that aid should be given close to 2,000 businesses. What has been paid so far is half a million dinars for 1,766 businesses. As for public facilities from EU funds, two million euros were spent to rebuild 21 schools, kindergartens in Obrenovac, Sapac, Paracino, Trstenik, Ljubovija, Svilajnci. From Norway's fourm-euro donation to rebuild 25 kindergartens, health and cultural and similar facilities and from various donors has been restored or 19 schools, kindergartens and health centres are under way. As for the prevention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in December 2014, it adopted a National Risk Management Programme from elementary disasters that will be realised in co-operation with the World Bank, and over 70m euros have been provided for the implementation of this programme so far. All this stuff I've just read is very important to hear. This is official data from the office of reconstruction. It is very important to hear, since Serbia has never worked in such a valuable and transparent way before. All this data I've read now is on the office's recovery site. rs. Gov. A public procurement process has been implemented for them, for which it has never happened before in Serbia, and as for all those who wanted to donate to the benefit of the flood, their names are on the government of Serbia's website in a very transparent manner has also been done. I think it is very necessary to extend the validity of one of these laws so that the Office of Reconstruction can finish its work by the end of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31660	Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. We're moving on to the list. The first on the list is Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31661	President-in-Office, a respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, a bill on the conversion of rights of use to property on building land will have our full support both in the debate and in the voting day. The position on this has already been expressed by our colleague Susana Spasojevic and I just want to join in. Just by supporting that approach spoken of by an esteemed colleague, I just want to look at it all from another angle. What do I want to say at first? The law on the conversion of rights of use into property rights on construction land is a very important law for several reasons. No matter what it includes, as we heard somewhere less than 1% of the total building land in Serbia, but it is also very important because of the problem it is dealing with and because of the objectives for which this law is being passed. Namely, the problem facing this law that needs to be dealt with by these laws is exactly how to turn the right of use into property in that category of persons who have not been able to do so in accordance with Article 102. The law on planning and construction. It is about privatisation entities, bankruptcy of enforcement, sports societies, associations of citizens, enterprises in restructuring. So that's the category that couldn't use the right to convert into property rights. What else do I want to point out? I would like to point out that it is also very important to achieve the goal of passing this law. This is the first end of the property transformation of the building land. You know, when that story started on privatisation, the transformation of construction land was also high hopes because building land is one huge wealth of every municipality, every city and the wealth of the city's municipalities is precisely measured by this and we had a situation that this transformation started in 2009, as we popularly call the conversion. Unfortunately, she was a failure, and she had to sort out some way, to finish the job. The second goal that we consider to be very important is precisely because it could not be built, it was not possible to bring in urbanist intentions. It all worked out. It is precisely by solving this law that we achieve these two basic objectives, not to talk about those other accompanying advantages, which means when it comes to the purposes, when it is built, when the construction industry is employed, construction operations, people are employed, and thus creates a new value, etc. I think it is also important to say that this is in some way an addition to the Law on Planning and Construction as a single system in Serbia that speaks of both planning and building land and building. A very important system. What was also characteristic of amending the Law on Planning and Construction, which is also a feature of this Bill on Conversion, is in fact the government's desire, the government's intention to simplify, to speed up, to reduce procedures, to make the easiest possible way to create conditions for construction. It's twice as important because when we enable fast procedure, when we enable cheap procedure then, now on the side, we contribute to solving another huge problem, which is the problem of illegal construction. If the citizens today think it's cheaper, faster and simpler to do it illegally, and then legalize it, than to do it through regular procedures, we'll have a big problem. So I point out, maybe that's not so important at first glance, for me it is, a significant simplification of procedure, it's important to create conditions as quickly as possible, as simple a procedure, or create conditions for as fast construction as possible. I also think that it can be applied when it comes to the Law of Conversion because in a really simple way, a quick procedure solves this conversion process. What I also want to point out is that when it comes to this law, two very important principles, to use that term. One principle is the market value of building land. It's something we've been insisting on as SPS since the story of conversion started. The second principle, with the possibility of compensation for the market value of construction land reduction on various grounds, is that it cannot be reduced where there is a restitution process when it comes to building land. I think it's a very important direction, an important goal, an important political message that this government sent when it comes to this law. Why do I say that? On the one hand, and on the other hand, it's a significant message for the following reasons. First, the law here, when it goes through it, when it determines the value, when it determines what the amount of the fee is, when it determines how to pay, the procedure how to do it, etc., all the time, this idea is going through – the basic market value of the building land. I fully support the approach, i.e. the reply of the esteemed minister to deal with Article 6, which can bring about, is not an idea, is not a goal, is not a wish, but can lead to some ambiguity to question whether this law should be simplified at all, its full value. I know, of course, that wasn't the government's intention, and that's why I'm here to give it one more detail. I think we should take another look, and all those possible reductions, that we didn't cover it too wide somewhere, too big, etc. I'm not questioning the need for that reduction. What I want to say, in the end, again, is the question of the market value of immovableity. I want to confirm again, what is the greatest value is precisely the market value of this law, it is a constant insistence on it, and I pray that the Government does not give up, does not create any possible crack to question it. The market fee for building land is very important, very important, and when I go to the supermarket, when I buy something, I have to pay, not as much as I want, but as much as it's prescribed there. In the end, and it concerns them, I want to make it very clear, to be clear to the end, our attitude, our approach. All those who bought businesses and factories, not to start production, hire people, modernize technology, but to close it all down, and wait for a convenient moment to sell building land, get rich, have to pay and pay full market value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31662	The word has been made by Professor Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31663	Thank you for supporting this bill. I agree that it's very important and that, as you say, it covers less than 1% of the building land, but it's mostly in cities and valuable building land. Our reason why we're passing a law like this is just to bring in land for an urban purpose and really build it up and get some income out of it. In general, the procedures in Serbia were the biggest problem. The Law on Planning and Construction has completely changed the system and introduced a one-stop shop system and led Serbia to be a country, I hope very soon in the World Bank report, which investors will want to come to, because we will not be the last or the last, but will be the country that gives the building permits as soon as possible. With a solution to the issue of conversion with a new law that has already concluded its public debate on the diameter and the cadastre, which is also equally important, because all of this can't be good for us unless we have an orderly cadastre, and with another law that is now entering public debate, which is the law on the law of objects, then I believe that we will finally have order in what is called construction. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31664	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31665	Thank you very much. It is clear that this law should have been passed, but the law is bad, so we do not doubt the intention, regardless of how the law came to parliament. We got him, if I'm not mistaken, on Friday, at 6:15 p.m., he went into this building, and today is the debate. It's a little unusual that when someone has good intentions and wants to do something right and says he's proud of it, he does it practically overnight. What are the big problems in this law, that already was the reason for the amendments to be submitted. I submitted them along with the other MPs. I don't have much time to talk about details right now, but, let's say, that famous market value as a market price, as the most important thing in this law, is very problematic as it is determined. Who determines the market price? Tax administration? On what grounds? Where is the tax administration qualified to assess the market price? Do these solutions received for the immovable tax, written by the tax administration, have anything to do with market value? It was logical for the court experts to do it. It's some kind of solution that looks more like it. How, for example, will you determine the market price of land where "Belgrade on Water" is supposed to be built? There's nothing built there for 100 years, you don't have parallel examples, you don't have anything around that location, you don't have that kind of plan. How will the market price be established there? That's one question. There is a discrepancy of terms, a question of busyness and construction. Some local self-governments use one version, another version, another institute. The question is, how is the law going to be applied to one another and how is it going to be with the other? Some analysts, without quotes, have made some analysis of price reductions, so they have come to the possibility that the price may decrease over 100%. That means we still need local self-government to give someone the money they got the land. The question of the definition of regular use is one definition in this law, the other is in the Law on Planning and Construction. The 99-year lease issue is also a very interesting issue. My question is why is there a 99-year lease institute in the first place? That, of course, is not a lease, it's obviously property, and yet property with a uncertain ending -- what really happens after 99 years. Why would someone get the possibility that a location would pay for a loan, practically, 100 years old, and someone else couldn't? These are all the dilemmas that this law represents in my eyes as a bad solution and I think it would be a good idea for the law to withdraw and that, without doubting good intentions, we get a better text. I'm sure you'll agree with me, Mrs. Aleksandra Damjanović, who had much better texts of the law than this, and I'm grateful for those texts in some past, but I don't think this is the brightest moment. The question is the same, since in a joint debate, of course, absolutely pointless, floods, but it's already a normal thing here, that senselessness, that extension period would be very interesting and for examining all the irregularities that exist to help the flooded, from not knowing who's responsible for the deaths of 55 people, or 57, or 60, we don't know the exact information, of course, that's not the Ministry's jurisdiction, I expect from an honest man who's at the head of some office who's involved in this aid, that this report gives us. What about the Law of Legalization? You just said there's a law going on, and that's interesting. Let me give you an immediate suggestion on how to solve it – by intubulation. All that is not investment building and all that is not built in forbidden zones should be legalized, and those who have worked under the law should be rewarded by being exempt from tax on these immovableities in one period, means people who worked with papers, but that is not the subject of this law. In any case, you can do better and I expect you to withdraw the law and make a better proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31666	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31667	The law on the law of objects you mentioned, as you might say, is close, it's warm. Yes, the law is prepared and we will really do everything to again make mistakes that existed over the past ten years and so many laws have been passed, and all have more and more illegally built objects for the result, and we will solve this problem, but not by bringing into the situation any investors, whether natural or legal persons, that they cannot comply with the provisions of the law, but that they can comply with the provisions of the law both with the documentation and with the money they have to give, to finally become owners of their objects. But today is not about the subject, today is about the Law on Conversation. So I have to say that the local tax administration is the one that will determine the market value. As I have already said, there are already a number of amendments and suggestions to appear in this case in this law and in the witches. Since it is in line with European practice and that is possible, we will seriously consider it and I think it is not just your idea, but the idea of many MPs. Also, one important thing when you're talking about building land and regular use, let's know right now that the Planning and Construction Act doesn't know this as a basis for conversion, or it doesn't know conversion. In that sense we had to put as sui generis building land for regular use. And one more thing that I don't think you understand, and the question is the lease. So if someone after the lease has been made, then the law is determined at 99 years by dividing the market value by 99 and we have an annual amount, etc., but if at the end of 99 years someone does not want to enter into the property or does not want to enter the property in some previous period, they deny it, they return to the owner, i.e. He's coming back to the state. So we're holding back, or we're doing nothing to harm the state, or public interest, and I think it's important. I guess we'll talk more about this through the amendments. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31668	Thank you. Very thin for the replica. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: Let me give an explanation. All right, explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31669	About a 99-year lease. He takes someone to rent a property for 99 years, builds a 10-story building, and 99-year-old says, "I won't put it in my property." Then what are we doing? We're tearing down a ten-story building, or is it a state building, or is it a question of who's going to live to be 99? I think the solution is inappropriate for the 21st century in general. I don't see any bad intentions here, but I think that this solution should be replaced by a solution that will define the property at this point. Only if we close the property story now over the building land of this law, then that law makes sense. If some versions of decades, years, hundreds of years are reopened, I don't think that's a good solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31670	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31671	As far as the rental institute itself is concerned, it has been known in Serbia since 2003 and throughout Europe. So, on a specific case that you said land is definitely coming back to the owner. As far as the building is concerned, I guess in that sense there are certain conversations in which it will be resolved, but the land, because we are now talking about land, the land returns to the owner. What's law enforcement? The intensity of the law is that it's more property and that's why we gave this law, but we've also given the possibility that if it's not possible for these particular groups, it's possible to take the lease, but so we don't violate the public interest and the interest of the state. So, in a specific case, the land goes to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31672	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31673	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elimination of Floods, of course I will support it, with a view to extending the deadline by the end of this year, that this law may act. In this regard, because the particular consequences of the flood in agriculture were measured hundreds of millions of euros and therefore my patriotic obligation as president of the People's Peasants' Party, as someone living in the country, as someone who was even a victim, who had even human victims in that flood, is to accept this law and support it. As far as this other conversion law is concerned, I didn't quite understand my colleague's end. He asked us about what would happen after the 99-year lease on agricultural land, how would the state behave? It will certainly not behave the way it acted when renting agricultural land in Fruška Gora, which was leased for five years as agricultural land. Look at the wonders, before the lease, there was no vineyard, according to the paperwork I had, and for now the vines lasted from 30 to 40 years. I don't understand a country that, all right, has given a subsidy to someone who has the right to rent on agricultural land for five years to plant a 40-year-old plant. I no longer believe that we will have such an unserious state, which will thus rent land and allow a multi-year so far to be planted on land that has only been leased for five years. So, just when we take it for granted, we see what a moral offense it was and how much the moral collapse of that government was and the Ministry of Agriculture that allowed such a one, so to speak, the bond. Let's move on. As far as conversion is concerned, I ask the Minister to explain to me how the land conversion was done around the Usce building. Is this affair closed for centuries, amen, or is there a chance to examine how the conversion of land that was around the building is worth about 30 million euros, and the area is somewhere around 5ha? To remind me that there were a little more violations and that my fellow farmer, in an attempt at the time, was the federal police minister, a member of the federal government, that one of the leaders of the other opposition party was the Federal Minister of Telecommunications and I don't know what they were talking to about the sale of the building, saying there were certain irregularities, that this land should not be sold during the sale of the Central Committee building, or building on the mouth, which, behold, was sold at a competition in June, which lasted 30 days, but the commission was appointed only on 15 August. The question arises how did the competition commission, which was appointed on August 15th by the federal government, hold a contest that the federal government called and lasted from June 30th to July 30th? How did this commission retroactively pay off the competition? And there's a series of irregularities. Of course, to examine how the Federal Attorney General warned the federal government that there were two types of contracts. One contract was a contract that came to the D.A.'s office, which was given by the D.A.'s office's consent, and another contract was signed without the agreement of the Federal Attorney's Office, which was warned by the federal government, which had today's two leaders of opposition parties in its composition. Despite warning them, a contract was concluded in December with a company that was founded only on December 15th. So, it didn't exist in June of the month, at the time of the competition. If it's such a conversion, if we're seeking such a conversion, then I certainly wouldn't be willing to support that law. We also heard members of the party of the former regime who explained it here and was so keen to remove irregularities, etc., but I must warn them that it is not the same and my only objection to this law is that the conversion in the country should be completely free of charge. It is not the same to keep a garden in the village of Novi Karlovci or in Smilovci, or in Leban, or in Medvedja. It is not the same to keep the garden, greenhouse and plastic in the village and keep a garden of two cafes in Belgrade. One of his coffee costs 150 dinars, and for that price at this time you can buy in Leskovac, in other gardens 50 kilos of cucumbers, you can buy 20 kilos of tomatoes, so someone has bread with seven crusts and certainly has to give him the right benefits, since here someone who has been quietly pawned and found in this law has two gardens in their cafes that bring in an impressive income per unit of surface. So if one coffee costs as much as 50 kilos of cucumbers, then if you sell at one square metre today 10 coffees, over the year 50 kilograms of cucumbers can't give birth to one square metre. So I think that land conversion should be free of charge in the country, since it threatens us to disappear that little man who lives in the country, the average age of 59, our villages are empty, empty territories. And I think the future Ministry of Construction, all from conversion to legalization and all laws regarding construction in the country, should prescribe that in the country only the minimum of some contributions are paid, so that construction is without any communal burdens, etc., that people simply report the location and work. In this way, we will move part of the processing industry, in order to avoid high utility in cities, to the countryside. So we will find jobs for father in the field, son and daughter-in-law in the factory, and in such a way we can recover some of the population that is now wandering around Belgrade's suburbs without work and without bread. That's what I stand for. I also think that the law on conversion and that all other laws in the future that are being passed are maximum in favour of the village and the rural population, that in such a way we attract some investments directly to the country, especially those dealing with the processing industry, so, by processing what the villagers are making, because I, as a man who advocates Serbia's fields, plums, for Serbia's workers and peasants, girls and boys, will certainly fight to the end for these interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31674	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31675	This law treats exclusively building land, therefore, built and unbuilt building land. When we talk about rural gardens, etc., then we talk about the Agricultural Land Act that exists or is changing now, but when we talk about the potential possibilities of other types of construction on rural, agricultural land, the Law on Planning and Construction, we've quite relaxed that part, so we said that we don't have to have specific plans to do and everything we do and what we're going to do, we're doing precisely in order to relax, or in order to dissipate all the obligations that would be in the country, so that we can speed up not only agricultural production, but also investment and remaining first of all people in the country. When you mentioned the Ustasha Market Center, yes, it is a serious question and we will start to get complete information, that is, we have already launched, so how has the parking that has been completely public become part of it and very soon received during DOS Government all the permits and the question is asked – how? So that question is already in a kind of procedure, so to speak. (Marian Risticevic, from town: Replica. I'm not well enough interpreted. I was misread. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31677	Thank you. I understand your answer, but I also need to get to know you that some local self-governments at 500-600 hectares in certain villages have declared building land, that in 20 years, nothing on this building land is working, that there has been earlier collection of taxes on building land, and that now there is a tax on property in the areas, and that no one has any serious intention of building it and, let's say, to offer someone at the price at which the building land was estimated to buy it, if they offered it to that municipality, she would refuse to buy it for her own benefit, to raise some industry or some residential settlement. So it's about certain local self-government, to fill their budgets, huge areas in the country declaring building land, although nothing is built there. I am asking for the privileges of many of these taxis by means of some law to be established, some minimum limit, or for people to be freed from building in the country because there are many auxiliary and economic facilities that are being treated by maltenes as if you were making a glass garden of cafes in the city of Belgrade, where I have already described what incomes are being created. I think that we have to strive to make these taxes as little as possible, to keep communal taxes at a minimum, to have a man report only a parcel and that even these investors who invest something, when they invest in the country to be with a minimum fee, and in such a way to raise some processing industry and retain the population because it's not just a matter of agriculture, it's a question of demographics, security and sovereignty of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31678	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31679	The production industry is no longer being paid by the Law on Planning and Construction, but when we talk about these local self-governments that obviously changed with a plan of purpose into building land so they didn't build anything, then the only solution is to return to agriculture again and further work in this regard. I agree completely with the discharge of all obligations in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31680	The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31681	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The respected ministerial, respected guests, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia and respected Nislija, today we are discussing two laws in a united debate. One proposal is the law on the conversion of rights of use into property rights on construction land with compensation, and the other is the law on the elimination of floods in the Republic of Serbia, and that is the flood that took place in 2014. I'll try to explain to you in the next few minutes why I'm against these laws and why I don't think they're good and that the majority of the congregation and the government, i.e. The Minister should have withdrawn this law so that it could be completed and to be better quality and to general satisfaction. We have heard in the debate so far that it is a meaningless 0.8% hectare of building land on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. 5.5 thousand acres covered by this conversion law, with one of my notes, that these are the most popular territories in the cities. Say, in the city of Belgrade, it's part of the dock. For example, to make it more plastic and clearer, it is in Nis "Beneton", the former "Nitekst" or the former "Ratko Pavlovic". So these are the kind of areas where the right to use those who privatized companies with this law allows them to move into ownership. Right? The right of property, so that they could later make something that was industry, something that was a factory yard, turn it into a residential and business facility, and that they could maximum commercialize and put it into function, i.e. to profit on that land. It's legitimate and it's perfectly normal and it needs to be so, it's development, it's progress. But there's one but. Is he a member of 8, or is he a member of 18? Article 8 refers to the conversion that is part of the parcel, i.e. Which part of that factory or this company, to make it easier for people to understand me, is not subject to conversion, is not subject to payment. To make it more clear, I'll read you article 8 and try to explain. If I make a mistake, there's the Minister, and she'll make me right. It states – the right to reduce the market value of the building land shall have persons referred to in Article 1(2) of this Act, regardless of where the immovableity is located when the claim is submitted for the conversion of cadastral parcels built on building land under the conditions prescribed by this law. In the process of conversion of catastrian plots of built building land, land area for the regular use of the facility is determined by dividing the total land area under the buildings built on that cadastrian plot established on the basis of data from the copying of the immovableity list by the maximum area allowed by the index of employment on that catastrian plot, which is located in the PDR, or the detailed regulation plan of the area in the city, which is established by a valid plan document, and on the basis of the information issued on the location and the amount obtained multiplied by the total surface of the cadastral plot, which means that whoever is interested and who owns the company will not pay for the conversion of the right of use to the property for the part under the facilities, i.e. For the part that belongs to those facilities, and the rest will pay. And that would be fine. But there is a member 18. Article 18 says – a person referred to in Article 1(2) of this Act may conclude a contract for the lease of construction land of individual cadastrian parcels until the entry of property rights on construction land under this law with the owner of the building land. When the Republic of Serbia is registered as the owner of construction land, the contract referred to in Article 1, on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, etc. finalises the Republic of the Directorate. The contract referred to in Article 1 shall be concluded at 99 years with a fee. The amount of the lease shall be determined by dividing the amount of the market value of the immovable property into 99 years and thus the amount obtained shall be the amount of the annual lease. What does that mean? That means, let's talk about NITEKS, although I don't know what the fate of that part of the town in Nis is, but here, to be clear, NITEKS has a plot that's, say, five acres in size, under the facilities is a hectare and a half, the belonging area is even a hectare and a half, that's three acres and now we'll all say okay, but those two acres will be paid to make the owner of NITEKS, if he decides to move the factory from the strict center of the town on the coast of Nisava, it's something like "Belgrade on the water", e, let's say, it would be Nis on the water, that Nis has the possibility of doing something like the Republic standing behind Belgrade. That would be great, and we're going to have a certain amount of money that's going to fit into the Republic budget, but the owner has the possibility of renting for 99 years. Which someone would pay in cash to get 30% off when something could win 99 wars. I don't know how anyone imagined it. It's probably those legal heirs, I don't know which one of us plans to live for another 99 years, so he can make an enrolment. What's the point? The point is that someone is going to pay 1/9 something that should pay under the old law immediately with reductions, and they are going to create an object that will immediately sell in cash, not wars. There's a problem with this law. Why give benefit to someone? It's okay to give benefit and give graduation when you pay something in cash so it can be 30, 40, 50, 60% less, depending on the amount of money you need to give, and not say it's 30% and how it's going to be that much money. Well, there won't be that much money. Who's the one who's got that kind of money, who's in business? Who's the one who chooses to pay for something in cash, and he can have a hundred wars? A hundred years to pay? I haven't met anyone like that, you probably have, you're a minister, I haven't met, and I'm asking you, Madam Minister, to withdraw this law, because I think it's harmful, I don't think it's going to bring the money into the budget, and I don't think it's going to make 5% of what you promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31682	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31683	The law is not harmful. The law is good. The law solves the serious problems and issues that we've had all these years ago. So if you define yourself as Article 8 and property then you can't go to Article 18 where the lease is. If you define yourself on the lease, then you can't be, or you won't acquire property. Everyone's motive is to have property. Secondly, if you define yourself on the lease, there is no reduction in whether it is for regular use, unlike Article 8, where, of course, you will have a reduction, for that part, so the land where you have already built the facility, by law and by building permission, then you will be reduced in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31684	Replica, Mr. Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31685	Thank you. So, I think we got along just fine. Since I'm a dentist and we've learned to talk specifically and to understand each other, I'm going to talk about something my colleague mentioned, and that's Luka Belgrade, whose estimated value is 400 million, and under the facilities is 40 million and you're saying that whoever owns Luke Belgrade, who owns it, is 360 million less 30%, that's about 100 million, that they're going to put in cash to the City of Belgrade, that is. the Republic of 200 million instead of paying 3.5 million each year for the next 100 years, in one case and another, to fulfill the basic purpose of the land, to build it and to immediately sell what it built. Well, who's the one who's gonna give 200 million instead of paying 100 years at 3.5 million? Who's that? I've met him. That's why I think it's harmful, and that's why I think it needs to be withdrawn or that these options you've given get back to the relief in the final payment. So, something that costs to pay right now, and if it's five years old, it's going to have a full price, if it's going to have a 30, 40 percent reduction right now, that this country has a lot of that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31686	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31687	It is precisely this law that the state and that it benefits from this law of conversion, i.e. by converting the right of use into property rights or the right to lease. When you mention Luke Belgrade again, therefore, unbuilt land is at stake and that there is no reduction, it means that it will be paid at market value. And if we're talking about the lease, then that lease could be 99 years old. Anyway, so far there's been no revenue, and now there's going to be income. There's no owner who has the right to use or a very small number who won't want to become and have his property, because after the lease, unless he takes the property, he returns to the owner.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31688	Please, just small consultations with Ambassador Nedjo Jovanovic. I am setting a regular break and, in accordance with the agreement with Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Mihajlovic, we will continue our work at 15.00 hours. Ambassador Nejko Jovanovic did not want to share his speech, so you are the first speaker. So, a regular break and we get back to work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31689	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31690	I thank the chairman. I will point out right from the start that my distinguished colleagues, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group Suzana Spasojevic and counterpart Milisav Petronijevic, have provided sufficient and clear reasons to point out the positive effects of this law, which will result in the SPS parliamentary group supporting this law in the voting day. However, some of the issues that have been raised during the discussion in today's debate may be affirmed further, so I will ask the honourable minister to try to answer these questions within the limits of opportunity today. We have submitted amendments to certain parts, to certain provisions of this bill which I hope you will carefully consider and at least some of them and respect. One of the amendments refers to what you yourself accepted during the debate as a kind of well-intentioned suggestion, which is the part of the law relating to the determination of the conversion fee, i.e. the way in which the market value is determined. It is exclusively about art and it is about the fact that besides the Tax Administration, which has parameters on the basis of which compensation is determined, there are also other modes and determining the fees that are in practice and how they are represented. Your Honor, Minister, I'm going to make a comparative approach. What's this about? In accordance with the provisions of the Expropriation Act, the Tax Administration provides parameters for the determination of value and is known, at least to those involved in practice, and I am coming from this practice of law, that it is exclusively a minimum value based on which an agreement is made regarding the compensation for the exploited immovableity. But there is also the possibility of hiring an authorised assessor or a court expert of an appropriate profession in expropriation, which also participates in the value-setting process. So, if you are looking at parallel law, then it is really quite logical to accept one such system solution, which will, in any case, improve the quality of the law. I honestly think that this amendment, which I personally signed, the amendment of the SPS parliamentary group, which implicitly indicates that the market value should be determined by the expert, does not have to be accepted in the literally authentic text of our amendment, but could be a kind of modality, which implies that, apart from the Tax Administration, an expert assessor, or expert. Why am I saying that? Because I come from the very text of the law, because in the text of the law, I mean your proposal, that the fee represents the market value of the land at the time of the application for conversion, in accordance with this law. The proposal for this law also states that the amount of compensation is determined by the authority of the unit of local self-government in charge of property-legislative affairs, which is not disputed, in accordance with the act establishing the average price of a square metre corresponding fixedness by area for the determination of tax on property. Here are approximately two sets of legislation, one of which is in the field of tax laws, and the other is from the laws we're talking about, which are, in any case, directly related to the subject which is today the subject of our debate, which is the conversion. On the one hand, we can observe that these two sets of laws sort of shut each other down. Why? Because the relationship defined by the property tax provision does not mention market value anywhere in a qualification, and here we are talking about market value as something that is truly fundamental. On the other hand, it is not good for us to just bind ourselves to zones because of some average prices, which, in any case, can also leave certain possibilities for different interpretations to come up with some solutions that are not, in practical terms, acceptable and objective. Of course, I wouldn't go any further on this because you've already indicated the possibility of potentially accepting through the amendments such an extremely well-intentioned suggestion from the SPS parliamentary group. We are pleased, all of us in the SPS parliamentary group, that you have removed our dilemma of whether the provision of article 6 of the law we are discussing today will be further clarified. In any case, it is necessary, it is necessary to avoid, under one, unequal practice in the application of this law, and secondly, in order for those who directly apply this law to be educated in the direction of its application. We also thank you for a specific dimension of the reasoning, which is related to buildings that are not built with the result of a solution for the approval of construction or construction permit, because there are situations where privatisation entities in restructuring, bankruptcy debtors and many others who obtain immovable property come to a real estate for which no building permits have been issued. We know by definition that if for buildings, existing on a catastrian plot that is subject to conversion, if these objects are not issued building permits or are temporary buildings, then by definition it is not built building land. It's a construction land that isn't built. The only question that could be raised here is whether it is those who are discriminated against because of the insolvency, because of the status of the debtor, the status of the privatisation entity in the restructuring or the other status provided for by this law, because they have an active legitimacy, and they, unfortunately, were expelled from the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, when it comes to conversion, will they be discriminated against because they will not have the right to reduce? It is logical that they have the right to decrease, since the objects are located. It was indeed both relevant and very constructive and correct question of the distinguished colleague Susana Spasojevic, when she asked the question to which you answered, which relates to the facilities for a special purpose. What could in some way open the dilemma is the provision of Article 7(4) of this Act, which indicates that there must be a judicial decision as evidence, on the basis of which the costs of obtaining the right to use, which represent that so-called. the deductible item. Now here's the question of court practice. Dear Minister, given that I am coming from this particular area, the area of justice, is not known in court practice to determine the right to the costs of obtaining the right to use. These can be secondary rights that are resolved under the main law, but cannot be the sentences of the verdict exactly as they are said – there is determined the cost of obtaining the right to use. This is not known in court practice. So, perhaps through the amendment, this provision could be defined, which in practical terms would be clearer, and, of course, more applicable and remove certain misunderstandings that we are looking for. It is logical for the court to define the question of the right to compensation or anything else, and this way, if it only binds itself as evidence relating to cost formation, I think that another formulation could be a more correct formulation. What comes from practice, and I think it deserves an answer anyway, so I'd like to ask you to pay attention to this comment relating to Article 8. A particular dilemma causes what regulates the right to reduce the market value of the building land that is subject to conversion. In particular, it is provided that the level of the conversion fee is to be determined by reducing the established market value of the cadastrian parcel by the amount of the market value of the land for the regular use of the facility. It's not a dispute. To remind us of Article 70. The law on planning and building that defines what land is for regular use of the facility? In this article 70, land for the regular use of the facility is said to be the land that includes the minimum area needed to form a building plot. With us in Užica, this minimal area for the formation of a building plot is about two acres, I guess more in Belgrade, in some other cities, this is defined in a special decision at the level of local self-government in a special way. One logical question arises - what if the area of land for the regular use of an object is larger than the surface of a cadastrian plot that is the subject of conversion? As a result, the issue has been established and relevant because, in our opinion and the value of land for the regular use of the facility, it should be determined by an expert assessor or an expert expert. Are we going to get into a situation where whoever is the applicant of the claim for conversion even gets what right he didn't have, even if there's some illegal availability, because he owned a smaller area than the area attached to the land for the regular use of the facility? This is specifically referred to by a mathematical operation that is later in the position of the 3rd member, which defines the question of the ratio that is placed in proportion to the proportion of the surface area of the cadastar plot compared to the level of occupancy, so I would ask you to answer more because of the citizens, in order to make it clear to them whether the index of occupancy or the index of construction is applied here, that is whether this law is in a specific situation of lex specialis in relation to the Law on Planning and Construction? Why am I asking this? I ask for the simple reason why the provision of article 31. The law on planning and construction defines both the busyness index and the construction index. We need to be fully aware of the fact that exclusively local self-government defines the existence of a busy index or the existence of a construction index by its decision. With us in Užica, circumstances are present and a decision of the index of occupancy is made, which means that it is characterized by this law, but if it is already defined, we in the SPS parliamentary group can accept that it is something that is directly applicable and represents a lex specialis norm in relation to the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, so let those who directly apply this law do so. In principle, there will be no adverse consequences, but in any case there may be harmful consequences if this issue is not clarified. So it's very important to know which of these two indices are directly applied. Busyness is the existence of objects on a catastrian plot and as much as is in the gauge of these objects, so much is the level of busyness of the cadastrian plot. Construction is a completely different qualification and a whole other term. It is therefore very important to know which of these two indices should be applied in concrete situations. I must give an example that comes from my city from which I come, my colleagues Ivana Stojljković and Jovan Markovic, is the fact that certain privatisation entities have acquired the right to use regularly for the use of an object that is also larger than the area defined by the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction. In particular, the missile company's bankruptcy passenger traffic, which is the real name, has exercised the right to use for the regular use of the facility by a court decision, where the area of the rights of use exceeds to an extremely large extent the area relative to the area defined by the provision of Article 70. The Law on Planning and Construction, because the judicial decision found that the right to use the property as a right to land for the regular use of the facility, the area of the entire catastrian plot, which is close to the hectare, and I said that one building plot in Užica, according to the parameters defined by the decision of the City of Užica, i.e. the Užica Assembly of the City of Užica is defined in two ar. So in this situation we have certain exceptions that, by this law, the circumstances are not covered. Me and my comrades in the SPS parliamentary group don't expect this to be covered by this law, and it's unrealistic to expect that because it's still a judicial decision, and above all, no law has been passed so far in the history of legislation that it could literally cover all situations and all circumstances, so it won't be possible for you either, but because of what I've pointed out and I point out that there is a situation where the right of land for the regular use of an object is significantly larger than the right of land to be converted. As for the lease, there's been a lot of dilemmas here, populist connotations, a lot of objections. We in the SPS parliamentary group believe it is useful to enable both the lease and the acquisition of property rights. Why? Because it is up to anyone who wants to invest a decision on the moderity of the press more in the direction of more efficient investment, but what we in the SPS parliamentary group think would be necessary, Your Honor, is that these laws also systemise the standards that involve a proper restriction. We know that the right to property is absolutely right because it implies the right to have. The right to hire does not mean the right to have, but only the right to own, only the right to the state. As a tenant of the apartment can only be owned by the tenant, no more than that, but there are no norms in the law of the proposed text that would constitute a restriction in terms of subletting the tenant without the consent of the tenant in terms of the transfer of the lease right to third parties who would be stickers in relation to the tenant as someone who teaches or receives, however, whatever legal terminology we use, it will be adequate. In this case, we don't have that kind of so-called. "safety restrictions" during the duration of the lease relationship and I think that would be significant and how significant to be systematised in this law, especially given the similar application of the provisions of the Law on Liabilities, because the Law on Liabilities points very clearly to these restrictions. If these restrictions do not occur and are not included in the provisions of this law, I'm afraid we may be in a situation of certain abuses, especially those who are looking forward to a 99-year lease. Finally, I would like to draw attention to something else that is procedurally legal, because this law has one part that applies exclusively to procedural parts, which is the application of the provisions of the law in the administrative procedure. The right is given here even by the obligation to provide complete evidence to the applicant for the conversion of the sea within ten days. Otherwise, the legal consequence of the rejection of his request begins to flow from the day he was notified of the warrant. But what if he wasn't served with a warrant? It does not appear here that the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act will be applied accordingly. You and how well you know if I'm not at the home address as a party, I can't get a call, then it's perfectly logical for that warrant to stand out on the advertising board and stand on the advertising board for eight days that I was then informed. Why? Because that's how we stop the obstruction of the process. In this way we will shorten the duration of the conversion and I think that should be the solution that is absolutely necessary for this law. In addition, Your Honor, I do not think that the rights of those who have already applied for conversion have been well defined. We know that by applying this law and by adopting this law, all these demands are eliminated and they must be subject to new laws. All those persons had certain costs when applying. Who's gonna make it up to you now? This is where we talked about the costs associated with the court's decision. It's not like we're going to do all those things right now. There's probably some people's MPs here who've applied for conversion, right? It's possible. Someone's the CEO of the company, so he filed for conversion. Are we then going to instruct him to initiate a court case or a case for determining the costs? No, but the question should be defined how to make up for it, because these costs have already been incurred. People had these expenses, legal persons had those costs. Therefore, I think that some parts of this law, which are in any case commendable, should be complemented in order for the law to be better quality and MPs' group, in that sense, will give its maximum contribution and, of course, with a request that you accept our amendments, and whether or not you accept them, we stand at the point of view that this law is necessary, necessary, that it is in the spirit of harmonisation of legislation with EU legislation, that this law represents another shift towards entering the European Community and that therefore the SPS parliamentary group does not have a dilemma when it comes to supporting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31691	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Your task force has no more time. The word is made by Vice President Vlad, Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31692	Thank you for your suggestions and thank you for supporting this bill, that is, this law. A few answers to a few of your dilemmas. One thing is, of course, market values, i.e. tax administrations, which should also be established by the proposals to be experts. We don't mind, and I've already said several times that through the amendments we're going to settle something like that, with the fact that it has to be said that it's from a list of permanent judicial skills determined by the Department of Justice. Then, you mentioned the indexes. That's what law says. Maybe you didn't find it. It's a busy index, not a construction index. What is very important to note, when we talked, that is, when you talked about the lease, we were not at the point that we should rewrite the Law on Planning and Construction. So everything that's not regulated by the Law of Conversion is in planning and building and it's right in the article, let's say, 18. - the lease referred to in Article 1 applies to the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction which regulates the lease of building land, unless otherwise prescribed by this law. When you mentioned the Law on Administrative Procedure, yes, it is here in the law, but in the basic provisions of Article 1 the question of procedures which are not governed by this law will be subject to the provisions of the laws governing the general administrative procedure. I agree, of course, I've already told your SPS colleagues several times that as far as Article 6 is concerned, we'll certainly reform it in the right way to be much better determined than it is so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31693	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. You have no chance of a replica, Mr. Jovanovic. You are not in any way in a negative context mentioned to have the right to replication. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: I just might be misunderstood.) We can't know what's in the 20 minutes you've been saying the wrong way. Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31694	I think most of you in the hall remember that we had a very loud and very active debate in November of the month, when we talked about the Law on Planning and Construction, and most of you remember how much we tried to improve the law through the amendments that we made at the time, aware that our attempt would not be quite accepted and aware that it would not bear fruit, i.e. that the law would be bad. Today, after eight months of talking about the Law on Land Conversion, in the discussions that preceded this discussion, we can see how bad this law was and how poor and insufficient the preparation for this law was. At that time, we asked as a key argument to delay the debate on the law, and today we ask that the debate be postponed and this law be postponed. Why? At the time, we felt it was essential that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Competent Ministry come out with a proposal for a set of laws concerning this area, meaning the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, Law on Legalisation, Law on Public Property, the Law on Conversion, the Law on Planning and Construction, as the most important. The minister's response to our demands was the charges of what we did, the charges against the minister, the charges against what was behind us. However, even then, the minister consciously or unconsciously admitted that we as a society have a major problem. The 2009 period when the previous law was passed here was characterized by a variety of ugly words, and the minister herself said that in that period, for example, since 2009, we had 19,000 apartments and immovableities in Serbia, that in 2013, only after four years, in years of major reforms, we had 672 sold immovableities. At that time, the ministry said it was obvious that we had a decline in production and a decline in activity in the building every year between 7.8 and 10%. Then, in some ways, a serious debate is opened about who is responsible. You have seen that despite all the ugly words sent to both the Minister and the Government, the result of this government and the result of this government is not to compare. We asked that precisely because of the adoption of a set of laws that would solve this problem avoid all the problems that are happening and in this bill of law that we are talking about today. If, Your Honor, that was when you took our advice, we wouldn't be talking today about all these problems regarding the harmonisation of the law. We don't understand why you didn't at least suggest that in the same law there be a conversion with compensation and no compensation. You have very wrong information. The process that you have left for a non-refundable conversion to be done in Serbia through a catastra. In many cities for these seven, eight months you have zero in execution as far as these proceedings are concerned. Why? Because both citizens and those who are working on these procedures and cases are deluded and waiting to see how this problem will be solved here in the Assembly today. Today you have come up with a bill of law that is completely inconclusive in many members of the law against previous solutions. If you had listened to our recommendation, you would not have had the problem of Article 1st paragraph 2 today on which we have submitted the amendment, where, either in the Planning and Construction Act, you have wronged the terms and years, so you put the 13th of May 2003 or the stasis when you proposed that organisations, businesses, etc., which are exempted from the Law on Planning and Construction, be treated by this law by 13 May 2013. So, a series of gaps that happened in the Law on Planning and Construction are now being repeated and you have a problem. The people on the ground have a problem. We, through the submission of 20 amendments, tried to correct this bad proposal. We expected today at least an honest answer from you, that some of the controversial things, such as Article 6, Article 8, Article 13, which essentially raises the issue of the application of this law, or essentially opens the issue of corruption in the application of this law, give an answer and say that we are wrong. Instead of getting reasoned answers, we got a series of accusations again, we got a series of ugly qualifications on some period behind us. Every time you don't have answers and every time you get into trouble to explain the ultimate intentions of your actions, you're going back into some past. And the question arises, and when do you take responsibility for what happens? The Constitutional Court's decision was in 2013. Two years later, we're talking about some of the bill's proposals, and we're asking the question -- are members 6, 8 and 13 contrary to the Constitution? Instead of getting the answer, we get the charges. When we talk about really wanting to help through all these discussions and amendments to improve some solutions here, we get counter answers that have nothing to do with what's today's debate. Our amendments, which in this case really open very serious dilemmas, are related to this Article 2, which I mentioned. In several members, we try to improve the bill's proposals through the formulation, so we said instead of "legal relations", that you use the terms "legal affairs". You used that termology in today's discussion. Instead of calling for regulations in some members, we have said that the terms “state aid control” are used, etc., etc. I think this dilemma, which exists around the lease of land, can be removed. We've given an amendment that reduces the possibility, that period of possible lease from 99 to 18 years. We believe that either you or the board should respect this proposal that directly this article is 18 in relation to the members that I mentioned 6, 8 and 13 and in case this possibility is not used to reduce this period of time you are in trouble so that direct abuses can occur. If you were talking about the economic impact analysis of this law being carried out, I'm asking a question -- did anyone do an analysis of how much a request would be for a lease instead of a conversion request? In this case, you give people a chance and a chance to pay off their commitments over 60 months or reduce their obligations by 30% if they do it at a one-time price. In one case or another, people have to take either bank loans or mortgages. In this case, which you have suggested, of course, that people will choose 99 years as an opportunity to pay their obligations. That possibility directly undermines your plan, the economic plan you've made in this case, because people will be used to make lease contracts for 99 years. If you give them the opportunity and the right to build on that land and sell possible apartments, buildings, business premises, so they come in a position to build five, six years on land worth perhaps more millions of euros in multimillion-dollar revenues. After seven, eight years will appear at the ministry and say – no problem, I will buy this. The profile they built in the meantime, where they didn't buy the land, doesn't count anywhere here. I think you should seriously analyze these things and respect our suggestions that we've offered. Secondly, we have also suggested that we seriously consider this way of financing, i.e. the collection of these revenues. You said 50% of the funds go to the Restitution Fund, and 50% of the funds go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or to the budgets of the Autonomous province and local administrations. However, if you consider that because of incompetence, not work, intricacies in the administrations of local administrations are, above all, after so-called. Transfers from 2012 came people who actually do not know what to do and how to do and that local administrations did not respect the application of the Public Property Act, you come to the next. If the application of this law is seen from that point of view, there will be requests for conversion in the next year, and local administrations for not applying the Public Property Act and not owning certain premises, land, parcels, etc., by law, the collection of these revenues goes to the Republic budget. Most of it will be damaged by the very local administrations you were talking about here, which are underdeveloped municipalities. So they won't have the opportunity to get funds from the inflows of these funds, but all the money will go to the Republic budget. That is why we have proposed that this member be amended and that 50% of the funds be paid into the Republic budget, and 50% of the funds in local administrations, i.e. in the province. In that case, local administrations would have the opportunity to make certain revenues, develop their local administrations and use that money in the way that they need to. The next thing, we tried to give our amendments and the deadlines, so we said that in Article 15, you must consider the deadlines for the second degree of appeal, i.e. the complaints coming to the ministry, being limited to 30 days, and that these problems are sort of solved and that the ministry is not responding for two, three or four years to the complaints they are referring to. Also, a deadline relating to Article 12, I would like to ask especially my colleague Damnjanovic to pay attention, the formulation in Article 12 is very bad. We've given these amendments that talk about it. We've given the deadline to get rid of it for 30 days, after the administration's reply, that request and the tax administration, say, in Uzica, which should assess some real estate or real estate in Brodarevo or in Prepolje, to leave that deadline for 30 days, that they act on that case, because it's impossible to solve it in about five days. To conclude, we'll have a chance to talk in two days about the amendments. What we have suggested is precisely in the interest of improving the law. I hope that's how you'll understand our discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31695	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31696	I don't want to stay in debt for a few things you said. First of all, I don't know what kind of ugly qualifications these are, if we're just talking about, in relation to all that we inherited and what really is left after the ruling of the DS. These are ugly things for all of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia, and they are not ugly qualifications for you who led Serbia and left us so many problems, and today they would not have passed the Law on Conversion that the one you brought was in accordance with the Constitution. Secondly, when you talk about the entry into the right of property and catastro, so, on 17 December 2014, on the date of entry into force of this law, property is entered. So we have the owners, because it's a record that has a declarative fact. So much I suppose you should know. I should not repeat that everything that has happened in the area of construction in the past 15 years is devastating for Serbia. So the share of construction in GDP is below 3%. That's not the result of this government's work. We're trying to make things right. So, we're correcting things from the Law on Planning and Construction that lives and that works by the Law on Conversion, very quickly the Law on Preference and Cataster, the Law on Law on Law on Objects. When you mention Article 6, I'd like to hear what's concrete that doesn't suit you in Article 6. If you can explain, I'd like to hear it, because I'm not sure you understand that. From everything you've said, I really don't see what it is specifically for you in this law that still doesn't fit and what it is that is your constructive criticism that might be acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31697	I thank Mrs Mihajlović Mr. Markovic, you have no right to a replica. [[Jovan Markovic, from the place: If you can replica?]] The possibility on the replica has only Mr Bozovic because the Democratic Party is mentioned. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: The minister called me. Mr. Markovicu, you know the Rules of Procedure very well. So you're not mentioned by name or name. Only the Democratic Party is mentioned and the authorised representative of the parliamentary group has the right to replication. You have no right. I apologize, very much, because I don't care if he gave those two minutes to you or Mr Bozovic, but I have to respect the Rules of Procedure and not deny the rightful representative of the parliamentary group to have the right to two minutes of replication. Here you go. Mr. Bozovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31698	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, distinguished guests, respected citizens, if it's a bad thing that you inherited in Belgrade for example a million squares a year, I don't know what they would call someone after you to inherit 100,000 a year. At times, 110m euros entered the city's budget when it came to editing city building land, today or 15m. Thirty building permits in the city that in five years built three bridges, how many boulevards, schools, kindergartens, hospitals not to mention. You say the construction industry is on the lowest branches. It has been in the last three years. We have brought, as you know, in times of greatest crisis a programme of assistance to the construction and conditions of the world economic crisis 500,000 square meters in Stepa Stepanovic, 18 billion have been invested in two years together with our coalition partners from the Socialist Party of Serbia, which I am sure they are proud of. When you came here, the result of your construction and the struggle for the construction industry was smelly buildings. Your results are seen in Duke Stepe in Belgrade. We have implemented the project "social housing" in 20 cities without thinking. We didn't sit on our hands. We have launched various projects throughout Serbia, and these are DS results.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31699	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31700	The more you attack DS, the more I end up with it, the more it tells us that you know how criminal this law is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31701	I thank Mr. Bozovic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31702	I don't know any of the only projects that you started and ended. I'm going to start with Corridor 10 and all -- you're not the only one who's finished, and you've charged every one of them three times as much as the real price. That's the result of your work, and when we talk about construction, unfortunately when the SNS entered the government three years ago and was in a coalition at that point, a construction industry that had a stake in GDP, which can be checked, below 3%. That's the result of your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31703	The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr Bozovicu, no DS is mentioned, so you have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31704	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, when we started talking about construction and results by 2012 then we should not forget that all of this is practically the result of Serbia's budget spending. So, no buildings were built until 2012 in the private sector in terms of foreign direct investment, but in terms of Serbia's budget, or the money of Serbia's citizens, and that is the fundamental difference in the concept that today's SNS wants in a certain way for all domestic and foreign investors and citizens of Serbia, who will enter the conversion process, to convey one message that the private sector must be strengthened. If we are talking about the private sector, then it is safe when we talk about foreign direct investment to build buildings, i.e. obtaining building land, that it must be according to certain rules. I tried to perform a gene, for example, on the Del Real case, a company founded by holding Mr. Miskovic, who in 2009 had a plan for detailed regulation of Block 53 made a proposal for 15.9 hectares of land in the building of the so-called "Block". the city which was for the purposes of the University of then, which has, of course, been financed from the budget since 2009, by the Law on Planning and Construction, essential to this facility, and this land is the state, that is, by means of its acts, introduced a certain conversion that has not had a certain fee until today. Thus, in 2010, a report was submitted, i.e. a request to the City Assembly and the Republic of Serbia for the execution of the conversion on the basis of a law that was passed a year before and a regulation that was in force, but it is interesting that this assessment of the market value of the Republic's public revenue administration did not take place. The solution given by the then Secretariat for Property and Legal Relations of the City of Belgrade showed essentially that it was unable to carry out that assessment, because the hot potatoes were not wanted to be put into its own hands and solved. As a result, a Solomonian solution was found and, of course, it is done by people who have influence and who run the government instead of politicians. They found a solution that a certain foreign company that is licensed and could perform such a thing called "King Strange" estimated that these 15.9 hectares should pay 50 euros per square metre. Of course, when you don't have game rules at all, when you don't have the law, when you don't have a procedure at all to convert that any price when you put it is simply not properly done and what has been shown is that the Anti-Corruption Agency, headed by Verica Barac, has really animated the public and the media to make land conversions for this facility in a certain way. As a result, the solution and the appeal were filed by both the city and the republican defence attorney, who said that the market value of this land must be re-evaluated. The new assessment was again run by the same house that refused to give up the 50 euros per square metre. Then, when the elections are approaching, the Republic Public Revenue Administration rejected something like this in 2012. During that time, the building was already under construction. During that time the law spoke—whoever builds an object, that land belongs to that object. So we're not talking about 15.9 acres anymore than much less land. During that time, we come to the fact that the Republic Public Revenue Administration itself estimates this 75-euro square price per square metre. What's interesting is that at that point, Del Real agrees as a company because she made a contract with Bauhaus to build a certain facility and the moment she feels strong as a company means she can negotiate with the state, she simply wants to bring one against the suit, which is that the contract will be broken or that she has the possibility of collecting damage from the state because this part of the process is not completed. You know what, you're in a situation where the law allows you to be owed money by the minority state without you investing any dinar in that land that the state gave you almost gratis. So these are examples of how the Law on Conversion worked, how the Law on Planning and Construction worked by 2012. Let's not talk about how "Luka Belgrade" with 70 acres and 50,000 square meters through the privatisation process came into the hands of certain people who are at the centre of power and who have tried to through certain studies of the General Urban Plan to move the transport heavily from the city centre into a detailed regulation that cost a million euros, ultimately, and the cost of the state, and therefore what should be essentially the land of the first category, as we see, in the city center, they have the highest price, you essentially get through the privatisation process, and now bankruptcy through a certain sale of bankruptcy, you get almost three to five times smaller, and that's why today's law has to be found on the agenda. What's good is that this law requires you to end your ownership transformation and simply through this kind of legal solution we come up with to know what property is. Today, in fact, the biggest problem in Serbia is what public property is, and what is private property, especially if we know that the procedures for neither privatisation nor bankruptcy have been completed by 2012, and that is why we should always talk about the past. Those who are ashamed of their past can't think about the future, and we're not ashamed of it, and we'll always talk about the past, whoever it is, but we'll always get involved and solve such problems. It is therefore very important that such a law should improve investment. So, first of all, the part that the SNS also potential, which is investment in the private sector, which essentially introduces into order and what is called property, and the property is very important because it is the basis for the state of Serbia to charge taxes, i.e. to charge budgets. Such problems as exist are seen in both Belgrade and urban municipalities, and local self-government. Obviously, there is also a classification of land and classification of those economic indices that have been defined through regional development. I am fully standing in that position that you have proposed through this law, which is simply that the Regional Development Act should essentially help all of this, because these indices, if we want to go to European integrations, we need to agree with their understanding of what these are in a certain way, economic indicators of regional development, and therefore the land price relating to local self-government should essentially be resolved with these issues. What's very good is that you did this economic analysis of all 137 local self-government, although there are 167. Why? Because you have shown this that those who advocate essential decentralisation did not have the courage until 2012 to simply leave it to local self-governments to do so and that is why they said – let's let the Republic Public Revenue Authority do a certain assessment, so if not, we will find the outsider to do this, but now simply let this job really end where investors are closest. The first address on a specific land in a specific local self-government is this unit of the Republic Public Revenue Administration for a specific city or municipality. That's what's very important, that this is the basis on which the budget will be charged. It's a good thing that the distribution of these financial resources means that part of the funding that the Agency will have for restitution. Why doesn't this law cover it? Because there are a lot of problems in ending this process. Why? By the end of this year, virtually all applicants should be given certain solutions. With these solutions you will somehow get a clearer picture of what it is that will really be able to come back in nature. When he returns, then the state will have no obligation to pay certain financial resources from the budget. What is it that will have to be paid to applicants in terms of financial resources? There is some idea that in the future, both the IMF and certain international institutions will contribute to helping people who are applicants to demand and respect those solutions, but it is good that you will, on the basis of this and on the basis of these incomes, help to make these indices bigger, given that there is one quota regarding the restitution of financial resources and it is talking about some two billion euros, and it needs to be distributed to a percentage of how many these solutions are completed. When divided with that index, it certainly won't be as much as market value right now. That's why it's very good that you, based on these incomes, will help people who are in the process of restitution to help make this land price less expensive. In the end, I would say that all we have had as a proposal so far, and in principle, I think that's enough, that those who have so far had the opportunity to buy through the privatisation and bankruptcy process for cheap money attractive locations through businesses and through the capital of businesses, who didn't want to deal with the business at all, but only because of land, finally in a certain way, that some justice through new requirements and through the new price assessment will still come in order. What should be considered, what my colleague said, is true that some people invested, but it is also true that a large number of investors, i.e. buyers of such land, did not invest an adequate price of that land, and then they built buildings and they got locations of built residential space with high prices of squares. I think somewhere in that way, at least when we talk about these parcels, those parts around which they're used as certain auxiliary objects, and they won't be taken in this part of the building, they have to pay that particular price. All the things they've been paying for so far, let them prove it. This should be considered, but what is very important is that justice and justice need to be brought as close as possible today. After all, there is gratitude for both the ministry and the committee of directors that they have found Naled who has made proposals through the Economic Cocuss to ensure that all anomalies in society and all the problems that have represented injustice for many in some way are correct. In the day to vote, we will surely support this bill and this kind of solution that you have proposed as a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31705	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31706	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we have two laws on the agenda, the Law amending the Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia and a bill on the conversion of the right of use to property on construction land with compensation. Certainly these two laws do not go together and that it was necessary to discuss them in particular so that we could take a comprehensive look at the situation in flood recovery and that we could specifically talk about conversion. The "turnover movement" will not support these two laws. Respected Deputy Prime Minister, this law amending the Law on the Elimination of Floodes in the Republic of Serbia could be said two words, or one French word: "de ravine" – already seen. That word refers to the collision of objective ignorance and subjective feeling that something is familiar to you and is usually linked to a previous life. I wouldn't say that we, you and I were actually in some previous life in the same positions of life. I'd say a year ago we were in similar positions, that you were talking about how the reconstruction of houses and infrastructures threatened by the floods would be over by the fall of last year, so in 2014, and then until winter last year. Similarly, Mr. Blagojevic spoke to your exhibit in the realization of the project, but also your boss, Mr. Vukic, Prime Minister. Thus, Marko Blagojevic said for the recovery of flood houses would be completed by October 15th, and this was not done and the deadline had been broken. But then he said it would be by December 22nd. Not only him, but also the prime minister of the government said the construction of all houses will be completed by December 22nd. It's finished, as you know, until that time only 115 houses, the rest are not finished, they stayed for this year. In March, you kept saying the same thing. Here we are in July of the month, looking for extensions of the validity of this law by the end of this year to restore these houses and infrastructures. It's possible it won't be finished by then. Simply, in one word, irresponsibility, incompetence of this government that we see in other areas. Another law concerning the conversion of the right of use to property, i.e. the right to lease, could be said, as with other laws that were in the procedure in the previous days in the National Assembly represented by Mr Vujovic, it is about laws that you did not write, or you handed them over, written by tycoons to people who need these laws. My colleagues have talked enough about it, I can only repeat that the fact that Serbia will remain for over a billion dinars of possible incomes because potential land buyers will not be interested in making a conversion into property, but will simply rent that land, use it economically and pay a certain rent that is much, much less than the total cost of land. You didn't answer that, Your Honor. So you didn't say why this alternative and that possibility to the tenants. On the other hand, I've submitted more amendments. One of them concerns why you made the conversion possible for sports clubs, when the issue of privatization of these facilities is not resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31707	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31708	I'm done. The possibility of corruption and the possibility to get into the hands of those who shouldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31709	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31710	You're absolutely right, rainy. I thought that now that you're in the Movement for PRECRET, you'd be looking at things the right way, but since you're not, here's an explanation. I'll start at the end, from the conversion law. First of all, the law wasn't written by tycoons. It was probably during the period when you were a member of certain political parties, I hope it won't be now that you're in your movement. That's when the laws were really written by tycoons. That's why we have this situation so that today we have another law that needs to make things right. When you talk about 1.4 billion not dinars, but the euro, therefore, these are possible revenues for the Fund for Restitution and Budgets of Serbia, the province and local self-government, and when you talk about the lease, at market price, therefore, which is valorised every year depending on the movement of all the necessary indices, on prices, inflation, etc., therefore, the state will not be damaged as it was during the previous period, when it had no income from that side. When you talk about the flood law, you're really wrong. Therefore, the reason why, above all, this law extends to the end of the year is the question of the contracts signed and the money that has come, and as far as possible, the prevention of future floods and money coming not only from the Solidarity Fund, but also from the World Bank and other financial organisations. I've previously listed that we and how much we're going to invest in a hydrometeorological institution, which in another type of equipment, but when you talk about houses, the construction of 244 houses is over. You mentioned dates. You're wrong, because when we talk about roads and railways, what we said, October of last year, the roads were basically finished, which should have been fixed after the flood. What was left was the railway and part of the Belgrade-Bar railway, which was released only later. Let's just remind ourselves that we're sticking to dates. So let me do it one more time. Material aid has been paid for a total of 20,288 households across Serbia, amounting to 4.8 billion dinars. The total aid in cash was 5.2 billion dinars. 435 families whose houses were destroyed were taken care of, 191 families received money instead of building a house, where building a house was not possible. The construction of 244 houses has been completed. The aid has so far been granted to 673 tenant families in Serbia. Not to mention the waters we talked about. We've allocated half a billion dinars from the budget for a non-refundable financial aid of between 240,000 and 600,000 dinars, primarily to economic operators. The aid was granted to 2,000 economic operators in flooded areas. So far, aid has been paid for 1766 businesses amounting to 499 million. Agriculture, public buildings, preventions, etc., and all that I'm saying right now, which I especially stress, which is why I'm particularly proud, is that everything is transparent and clear and every dinar and every euro that comes or spends can be looked at and examined. This is the difference between all previous periods, not to talk about speed now, about the way it was in Serbia. To remind you, the reason why this law continues until the end of the year is, first of all, to implement projects that are primarily related to flood prevention, while entering public debate system law because this law is a limited deadline and this system law will continue to be used in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31711	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. ) Mr Vesenović, you do not have the right to reply, for reasons why if I were to give you what was mentioned in the Movement, I would risk that some MPs are looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because you are an independent MP and you do not have the right in such a way as MP groups to receive the right to reply. I'm sorry. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: He is mentioned. ) Mr. Markovic, I see you wish to be Mr. Veselinović's lawyer, but Mr. Vesenovic is not mentioned by name and last name, he is mentioned only by Movement. He's signed as an independent MP. I see you don't understand the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic. I'd like you to take some time off to take a look. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31712	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Minister, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess that I didn't understand the speaker very well before the minister, especially in the part where the period was concerned by what he was saying. He's probably not aware of it himself, because a man in that twist can easily get confused.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31713	Mr. Markovic, please, you didn't get the right to a replica, you got to speak in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31714	I apologize, Mr. Chairman. Today's agenda is a very important law proposal. (National MP Jovan Markovic throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31715	Mr. Markovic, don't throw it away. Please, Mr. Markovic, a member of the DS, so you don't think I'm talking to Mr. Markovic right now, please don't throw it away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31716	So today, there are very important points on the agenda, important bill proposals, and I primarily think of the bill on turning the right of use into property rights on building land, with compensation, or as some call it, the law on conversion. I support this legislative proposal because it solves a number of issues and problems that have plagued us for many years, because this law regulates one important and yet unregulated or at least unsuccessfully arranged matter in the area of construction, but also the entire economy, because I believe that the aim of this law is to bring things into normal, logical, domestic, one word, the right state, or as you once did, Madam Minister, and said that everything we have in all other countries is becoming normal and in Serbia. After a broad public debate has been conducted, where many suggestions and remarks have become an integral part of the proposed solutions, we today have the opportunity to finally solve these problems and, together with the recently adopted Law on Planning and Construction, as well as the Law on the Cataster, to round up this whole area which, you will agree, is very important, so as not to finally bring the building land in Serbia to its purposes, that is, urbanist purposes, for the benefit of all. Although the previous speaker disagrees with these assessments, the previous speaker who turned around in the meantime doesn't remember where he was or what he was doing, or what he was saying, or what he stood for, or what he was propagating, but I, Mr. Chairman, must remind you that these very radical solutions have led to a stalemate in this area. These aren't anybody's flat-rates, that's what all the real indicators say. That's what the analysis and the results showed. Why the results? Because they're not there, because they're nothing, because they don't exist. Just one, as you said, Madam Minister, only one conversion in the city of Belgrade for all these years, these are your results. Why are those results? Because you've passed nakarad laws. Because you've passed unconstitutional laws. Because you passed laws that were declared unconstitutional after the Constitutional Court. Because you made laws that fit the tycoons, not the citizens of Serbia. You don't remember that, Mr. Veselinovic. This law lays down, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, the right to conversion. It stipulates that the conversion is done with compensation. It is found that the amount of the compensation constitutes the market value of the building land, then, restrictively prescribes the possibility of a reduction of the compensation, but in exceptional cases, in tax-based cases and under the exact conditions specified, equally for all persons to whom this law applies and on an objective basis. The consequences of the lack of such a legal solution have been reflected as we have said in the impasse in the construction sector, stopping investments, legal uncertainty for those who have not been able to exercise the right to build under current regulations. These effects are also seen in smaller public revenues based on the construction of buildings, and this takes place in the budgets of cities and municipalities. This law removes all these shortcomings and allows for the further development of the economy. For all these reasons, I call on us to adopt this proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31717	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, you are right because your name is mentioned. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31718	I don't want to talk the way my predecessor used to say it, but I want to look back on the thesis he put out. Unfortunately, he did not answer the questions, and neither did the minister, of course, how many houses remained unrenewed in Obrenovac and elsewhere that were flooded. So you talked about what was done. We have never received that report in the Assembly, comprehensively, for MPs, for those who are responsible to the citizens. So you spoke, gentlemen, but you didn't tell the truth how many houses remained unrenewed, how many infrastructures remained destroyed, how many miles of misery were able to do what they were before the flood, do they provide if stronger rains didn't happen again to the flood of Obrenovac or any other city. Gentlemen, that's not what you're talking about. Don't tell the end or the truth about conversion because you have to ask the question why the government gives an alternative to financial powers, tycoons, however you want to get land, building land almost free. Gentlemen, you promised something else in the election campaign, now you don't stand for the citizens, you stand for the tycoons.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31719	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31720	We're the government that doesn't give anything for free, and you were in those governments that sold and participated in robbery privatisations, that's the difference. Second, when you talk about houses all they needed, that is, what we could and what we did, what we did, all the houses were renovated. It's a much bigger question now that I'm talking about, prevention of future floods. So, God forbid you were in power back then, I don't know what would have happened then, and I don't know if you'd have taken five houses out. So, it's been resolved, but when we talk about the report, I don't mind having a certain committee of parliament request a report and the Office deliver a report and the Director of the Office come and discuss it. I don't mind delivering that report to you unless you think something's done right. Also, the easiest way to get into all these office and government sites, because I'm sure you can and then take a good look at it, because it all stands. We don't hide anything, everything stands, every public procurement, all the money that came and where that money was spent. That's another difference between this government and some of the previous ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31721	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31722	I thank the Honorable Chairman. The Honorable Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the way in which the Government has established a bill on the conversion of rights of use to property on building land with compensation and delivered it to the Assembly for consideration, not leaving us with enough time to get acquainted with the text of the Bills and the amendment intervention where we believe we should, again, demonstrates the haughtiness and violence of this Government because it has a sufficient majority in the Assembly to vote everything the Government proposes. That even the ruling majority's MPs have failed to get full knowledge of the bill's proposal is seen from the discussion of some who spoke about fertile agricultural land and the subject of this law building land. The government had a deadline for itself to adopt this bill, which means that it knew about this obligation and that this was nothing new and unexpected. The deadline has already been broken and there would be nothing terrible, it would not be a big problem if it had been exceeded in another few days and had been left to the MPs for the opportunity to prepare more thoroughly and make a good contribution to the final solutions in the bill. When a law is passed this way, there is reasonable doubt that it is being brought under the pressure of certain entities or certain stakeholders, especially since it is a member of the government to whom you, a respected minister, belong for more than three years now, has said that the conversion has passed on to corruption. We do not dispute the need to pass laws that regulate this matter because it is necessary to complete the property transformation process in accordance with the Constitution. Let us dispute the procedure for the adoption of this bill and argue that some solutions have been given in the draft law. We did not have a chance to get to know each other before I saw the bill at all in the daily paper today in a two-number issue that came out for Saturday and Sunday on the public debate and on this bill, among other things, said - this draft of the law has also been proposed by the American Chamber of Commerce that the conversion fee will not be for the facilities that are located underground. I welcome that you have observed the objection from the public debate, but I do not understand what objects are underground, whether they are built entirely underground, or whether they are parts of buildings, construction facilities that have parts of the ground, such as basements, underground garages or some facilities. Furthermore, another observation is given in the text, and it says: "The right of property is only one part, and that some other parts are missing, like the right to have the right to do so." Then I paid attention, and I did not find in the text of the law that this remark was incorporated and that the right to dispose of land was developed after the conversion was made. I must also conclude that the bill is written very vaguely with long complicated definitions and too many members who create confusion in interpretation and prevent interpretation and understanding by the person referred to in Article 1(2) to whom it relates. With Serbia's economy in mind, not all legal entities have the financial opportunities to hire lawyers or hire lawyers. They should be able to understand the law that applies to them and that they should apply. In response to a fellow MP, you said this law cannot solve the problem of restitution. We did not expect this law to solve the problem of restitution, but we expected that the items in the process of non-restitution, which were not resolved, would not be prevented from being resolved by natural compensation after the conversion was applied. So we expect you to accept the remark already made in the debate and I repeat, to install a limiting factor, that where there are requirements for natural restitution and where there is a possibility of not allowing conversion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31723	Time. Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31724	I urge you once again to consider the amendments and the remarks made in the discussion and to improve the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31725	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31726	Thank you for your comments. To remind me that the draft of this law was adopted by the Serbian Government and put before you the goal of completing the property transformation process, bringing in land of certain groups, land intended, thus increasing investment and employment and, of course, increasing revenues in the budget. I don't know, I don't understand the comment on the haughtiness of this government, these ministers. If we were boastful, I wouldn't answer every question asked today by an MP, but I also remember some previous governments, where ministers sat, came and laid down laws and didn't even comment on them. But well, that's, everyone has a right to their own court. The property amongst other things gives us the right to be available, since you mentioned the right to be available, and the other thing you mentioned among other things is the American Chamber of Commerce. This law was in a broad public debate, in all cities in Serbia and all interested partners, domestic and foreign, were making comments. This does not mean that all the comments and that all the proposals were accepted, but I will remind you, for example, that this same American Chamber of Commerce, currently contains 190 companies in Serbia and they have invested more than 14 billion euros in Serbia in the previous 15 years and employ more than 15,000 people. So you have to admit that they are quite relevant to give their opinion, especially if it can help to make an even greater number of jobs. But we also accepted comments from the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, from the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade, and there were regional chambers of commerce that made certain quality comments, from companies like NIS and many others, NAED, etc. Therefore, there was a broad public debate and I am sure that parliamentarians also had the opportunity to receive information about this law through these public debates that were conducted. Of course, we'll take a look at your amendments, and then we'll talk about it in the amendment day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31727	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go, Mrs Stojiljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31728	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have an extremely important law, a law on the conversion of rights of use to property on building land, and that is one of the essential laws in the series that this ministry will bring to this assembly, which will improve the situation in our construction industry and, above all, allow investors to enter our country. Before I say anything about this law, I would first and foremost highlight the law that was first in line, among the first in a series it is the Law on Planning and Construction which hit a lot of solid foundations that all these future laws that come and legally frame all that will concern this area, and above all all praise because the Law on Planning and Construction has raised 30% of the issue of building permits, and thus the construction in our country, which is one big step. And what I would mention today, I'm not sure that we've heard many times, and I'm sure it's important for the citizens, that from 1 January 2016 or around that date, it will begin with the electronic issue of building permits. So, in addition to the Law on Planning and Construction, we now have before us a law on conversion, then a law on diameter and cataster, a law on legalisation, a law on capital investments, and these are the laws that, as I said, will frame this area. The objective of the conversion law ahead of us should, above all, finally regulate the property right of relations over building land, then bring land to the urban purpose. It would simply be very important because so far it has not been possible to build, and the purposes of certain objects have changed and certain land, and simply owners have been eager to wait with the impatience of the adoption of this law so that they can revive the economy. So, as we said, agreeing with the Constitution, and it's not for no reason more than once since the 2009 Conversion Act, the Constitutional Court knocked him down a few years later, so that definitely the opposition showed that she didn't know she was dealing with this problem. Then, there will be building facilities, businesses, opening new jobs and what is no less significant, it is also pouring money from these fees into the Restitution Fund, as well as into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the province of Vojvodina and local self-government. What's a fact, is that the distinguished minister has repeatedly said why this law is very important, and as MPs, we've met many times with these remarks, is that no investor wants to build on other people's land. That uncertainty that such a condition gave him simply could not be invested in money and made sure that tomorrow someone would not blackmail him with it. So the Law on Land Conversion is about to solve this problem and it will be the first step towards the security of investment in our country. Also, we've heard multiple times that we haven't been notified in time. I simply believe that every MP is informed of the laws and past the Assembly, so we heard that there were public debates in all major cities in Serbia. Who was interested, I'm sure he was there. Of course, whoever's in this area, I'm almost sure he was interested in time, so there was plenty of time for that, and even the European Commission, and that should be noted, did not comment on this law. So based on the analysis, we've heard this many times today, and I'd like to mention because of the public that we're about 66,000 acres of building land. Of that, about 5300 is exactly what is subject to the Law of Conversion and that is about 1% of the total building land, but what is very important is that this land that is subject to conversion is extremely important because it is of great value and monetary value and also potential investment values. So it's a 1.4 billion-euro value, so we definitely can't let this space stay ruined, not to be used, not to allow the development of the economy and the creation of new jobs here. So, so far, the law has made that impossible. We hope that after this adoption as well as all the laws in this area that have shown, this will be applied. So, so far, it's all been because this was a matter of politics, and from now on, the profession and the economy and for these problems have finally been found a solution. It should also be noted that the Law deals with privatisation, bankruptcy and enforcement entities, then sports companies, associations of citizens and deals with enterprises in restructuring but does not refer to the largest number of citizens who gain this right, i.e. ownership of the land is realised without compensation under the Law on Planning and Construction. So, we heard, the conversion is possible, but at market value. , Of course you can't give away land and it should be noted that this does not remove the right to use, but of course you still limit the possibility of building, so that whoever is the user can decide whether he wants to build or wants to stay in such a condition. Therefore, the possibility of renting for 99 years is also envisaged and it should be mentioned that the subject of conversion cannot be a building land which is specifically excluded from sale, nor is land intended for public purposes building on it by means of planning documents. What the state has come up with and will be very important for investors is that it is envisaged to reduce market value in three cases where the land is located on local self-government territory with a low standard of living. Then, in the case of built building land, when the market value is subtracted precisely from the area located under the buildings and located near the building land where the buildings are built in a complex. So, I have already said this money that will be received from compensation will be poured into the Republic of Serbia's budget, the AP Vojvodina budget and local self-government and 50% will go to the Restitution Fund. I'm personally sorry that in my town, the town of Užice will not be getting more money than compensation because I can say that the former mayor of Užica did not use the right to sign up as a public property bearer over construction land. He did not then use that right, we unfortunately, for that the highest percentage of our building land continues to be run in republican ownership. I am sure that we will change that and that this law will allow us to do so and that we will then allow much more money to flow into our city and into our budget. For all these reasons that I have stated and for all the laws that will yet follow in this area, you have great support of the SNS and all the honor of the results so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31729	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, on what grounds do you want the word? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: If I am mentioned as former mayor. No mention of your name or name has been made. The only basis I could find as chairman is that you're from the same city, unless I'm wrong. But that's not enough for a replica. There's no mention of DS. Yes, you have no right again, has an authorised representative or, in this case, the president of the parliamentary group, Mr Stefanovic. I really don't see, despite my best wishes and wishes, in the presentation of Mrs Stojiljkovic, any possibility that I can give you a replica. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go. Am I right, Mr. Stefanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31730	You're right, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, fellow Members, we have heard more or less arguments on which we have not received answers and I know that I will face the claims, so in advance I say that I fully accept everything you say, that this is all not true, that your policy, which is based solely on the plus-quality and past accounts, cannot give a single excess answer. So the facts are next. You've been in power for three years. You yourself, by the Law of Planning and Construction, provided for a deadline by May 8, which you broke. The Doing Business List of the World Bank in 186 places Serbia when it comes to the speed of obtaining a building permit. In 2014, she was in 184th place. She'll probably be a little better ranked now, but that's an international assessment of your work. According to the number of permits issued in March, construction was reported, as is said here several times, 662 apartments with an average surface area of 69 square meters. According to the permits issued, the number of apartments is lower by 34.4%, respected citizens of Serbia, than in March 2014. These are indicators of what you are and how you've been doing this all along. And that you're all right, that you've made the best laws in the world, that all of them before are the biggest scum, scum and punks, your results are catastrophic. That's a fact. Will you prove your success by making someone worse before you? Well done. Just stick to that story, gentlemen, and 34.4% are worse than they were. People, you're 34.4% worse. We've been listening to the compositions here all day, which we're used to, but we're listening to that, we're just hearing about the past, and you're still bragging, he says -- we're going to look into the past. Don't look into the past. Imagine how dark and dark your past is if someone opened it. Just look into the past. Second, you don't know. That's what these numbers confirm, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31731	Please, Mr. Stefanovic, don't speak to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31732	These numbers confirm it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31733	I didn't react when you described your colleagues in those words, but please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31734	No, I didn't, that's what you characterized them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31735	You said them, Mr. Stefanovic. I beg you, don't speak to other people's MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31736	In March 2015 576 building permits were issued, which is 1.8% higher than in March of the previous year. So, the index of estimated work value in March 2015 is 1.5% higher than in March 2014. Well done, good job. You say, investment stops, fewer licenses. Well, you've been in power for three years. And, then, when people tell you – is it possible, under question, that it is done because of some tycoons, you have no answer. That's a legitimate question. The main thing is why the conversion is done this way if it is known to be just, only if it is known what is the fee and that the fee is just. Why don't you know? The draft law does not provide for the possibility of refuting an assessment of the market value that the tax administration makes in its report. Thus, the tax administration can assess this on its own and thus deny the right of the user to convert to a legal remedy against that assessment. No legal cure, no. No deadline has been defined until conversion has to be made. That's what we talked about. There's no answer why there's no deadline. Why you introduced alternatively, i.e. You left the lease for 99 years? Why? There's no answer. I'll tell you, because some people do. Your every answer to that finding, that fact is – don't talk, you know what you've been doing. Who was working? Give me your names, give it to the D.A.'s office. Let them handle it, as you like to say, which I agree, the competent state authorities or this is a party state entirely, so you judge and judge and accuse. Who are they? Is the Cosmajac, which was released, is Miskovic, being released? Who are those heroes you locked up? You're doing well with Sharic. I hope it doesn't fall on the second degree. The conversion bonds are given the possibility of a long-term lease, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31737	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31738	Here, I'm done. The bill, they did not have what they had in the bill, was essentially given the opportunity to use the land without conversion and with a small fee, which is one of the biggest problems, the respected minister, and, please, if you can answer it in fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31739	Thank you. I apologize to DS members for the words spoken by Mr Stefanovic and the qualifications he has spoken. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31740	I don't see why forgetting the past, what's the problem talking about it? Let me say it again. Why is it problematic for you from the DS to talk about the past? I think we should talk about it, just because some things from the past never happen again. That's one of the reasons we mention the past. Far from us living in the past. Everything we do, we do exactly with the goal of never having to experience this past again, so we pass the Law on Planning and Construction, so we have building permits instead of three, four, five, seven years, how long they've waited, instead of, say, one Ikea, who's been wanting to build in Serbia, in Belgrade, so she couldn't, we ended it in a month. That's why we're passing the Law of Conversion based on the institutes that you introduced in 2009, though, according to the law that was unconstitutional, so today we're working it out. Of course, I'm sorry it wasn't solved before, and I'm sorry that you passed such a law that was against the constitution. So when you talk about building permits, you're wrong. When you say 34% is worse, I have to correct you. For the last three months compared to the previous three months, 34% of more building permits have been issued. Any building permit issued must mean at least one new job, at least one new worker to work. That's what's important. When you talk about the Doing Business List, it's wonderful that you mentioned it. I'm glad you mentioned it, because we're about to go back in time and say that being in 186 isn't because the SNS hasn't worked, it's the result of your work for the past 10 years. We're right, we're going to have a World Bank report this year, which will move us to at least 30 seats, because we passed the law and changed the system to get construction permits in a month. We're all what no one wanted to do over the years, we did it this year. All the laws that were problematic, none of them you wanted to pass, from the Labour Act, the Media Law, the Planning and Construction Act, the Law on Conversion and all the others that go. The result of your work is only one conversion in Belgrade. The result of your work is that neither the Restitution Fund nor the budget has any money from the conversion. The result of our work, because it is in the interests of the state, in the interests of the citizens, will be in Serbia's interest to use the land, that it will be built on, that it will be brought to the urban purpose, because that is the aim of the law, and the other thing, certain revenues will be realised. Furthermore, it certainly means that what could not be built before will now be built. The result of our work is that ten times more is being built in Serbia today than it was two years ago. Therefore, I agree that the results are those that define certain governments and have defined the results, after all, and that citizens choose the Serbian Progressive Party, which works for the previous year in the interests of the state, rather than in the interest of the tycoon. When you ask if the law was written by tycoons, it's almost funny to me, because I know, in all the resolutions where you worked and where you ruled in the last ten years, yes, all the laws were made in agreement with the tycoons, because it was much better to undefined things and when you undefined them, then anything is possible, but to define them. We're editing the system and we'll define it. In this country you live better today and this Serbia will have economic growth, unlike in previous years when you were in power. That's the difference. And unfortunately for you, but fortunately for us, you're not in power, but we can't forget what you've been doing for the past 15 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31741	The first line has Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31742	According to the Rules of Procedure, I am reporting, and here I am not referring to Mrs. Mihajlovic's exposure, but to Mr. Stefanovic's previous presentation. I think it's a broken Rules of Procedure, Article 107. - dignity. The dignity of the National Assembly was humiliated at the time when any of the MPs commented on any judgment. The humiliation of the National Assembly's dignity is when this hall of the National Assembly turns into a courtroom, when we become lawyers, judges, prosecutors, and just before we saw that Mr. Stefanovic took the role of Mr. Saric's lawyer and almost protested because Saric cried today in front of a verdict today in the Special Court for organised crime for 20 years. He said some things that I can say, as a graduate engineer, but someone who is a graduate lawyer should not say – Miskovic was released. No, it's not. The procedure is ongoing. And meddling in the process in a way that cheers for Miškovic's release. And what was the former regime doing, what was he doing in front of Miskovic, what was he doing in front of Borovic, what was he doing in front of Percevic, what was he doing in front of Borovic, what was he doing in front of dozens and dozens of tycoons you created? You stood still in front of them, you asked and you got orders from them, you carried out those orders. Now, this is your relationship with the tycoons, and now you continue to defend them in this National Assembly, using the National Assembly as a stage and as a courtroom. Now, that's humiliating the dignity of the National Assembly, and I invite you, Madam President, not to allow such things, and let the judicial authorities do their job. The Justice Department should do their job. As a responsible man and a member of the Serbian Progressive Party, I will never comment on any verdict, as the judiciary is an independent branch of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31743	Thank you. Don't we vote? (No) No comment. Who reported in to the Rules of Procedure? The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31744	Madam President, member 103 and member 106 have been violated. Why? Because the previous speaker, first of all, didn't get the word right after the injury was done, but only when the minister had finished, which was absolutely impossible to perform, and then he talked about everything but hurting the Rules of Procedure, i.e. Once again, for the thousandth time he has abused, i.e. You've allowed him to abuse the Rules of Procedure and replicate my smallness and talk here about how we can't comment on court judgments, and he's been doing it for three years, even today, while he's telling you. It's an incredible ability for a man to look at himself and successfully run away from himself, in the light of the entire national auditorium. Unbelievable. I'm really giving him credit. I don't know what kind of strength to have, so tell the president of the Assembly – imagine, they comment on the verdicts, and then use two minutes to talk about the verdicts, about Miskovic, about Saric, and I don't know what. Of course he doesn't hear himself, because I guess he doesn't have that capacity while he's saying those words, but you, President, should interrupt him, to react, if anything, because of these two members, not because I or he's right. I don't think this is correct, by repeatedly putting words that are not spoken in the mouth of the MPs and then being used for inappropriate replicas, and the minister has given quite enough material to continue this debate in the direction of revealing what is not good in the text of the law. And I don't understand why we couldn't go that way, but now they're commenting, by Mr. Babic, the verdict, with visible anxiety, because he knows it's true. His anxiety is the ultimate proof of his own face with missed words and false hopes that they gave to Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31745	I'm not even going to comment on your violation of the Rules of Procedure because I have nothing to comment on. You want to vote on it? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I do not ask to be voted. I proved there was an injury. The answer is mine only that Mr. Boban Birmancevic will get his word when the injuries to the Rules of Procedure and replica end, so we will fulfill our wishes and continue to talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31746	Mrs Gojkovic, Article 108, Item 1. If the theme of the National Assembly is Zoran Babic, it's okay. Mr. Stefanovic can also talk about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and about me personally, but I can't allow anyone to judge whether I'm nervous or not, and unlike some who are very nervous, this anxiety is being looked at through psoriasis, I have nothing to be nervous about, but very proud of everything we've done and what we've been doing today, but also in the future. I continue to argue that none of the members of the SNS, nor I personally, ever, and there is a stenogram that can be very clear to testify, we have not commented on any verdict, nor have we here a verdict, except for the verdict of Mr. Saric, but there is a nervousness on the other hand when it comes to the judgments of Mr. Saric, and even more nervous about the court proceedings against those who stood still, which made them law-making, which is why they implemented the policy, as I am told in Šumadia, fed a fat goose. Who is the creator of the tycoon in Serbia? Who created them?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31747	Ambassador, this really has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31748	I'll have another sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31749	It really doesn't matter. I have to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31750	I think the Rules of Procedure and Article 107 and Article 108 have been broken, because they talk about personal matters, especially when it comes to someone's anxiety. If it's someone's nervous, I think it's the other side because of the loss of benefits through the government they were making, but also because of friends who are already visiting some buildings on Ustasha Street.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31751	This really wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You used the replica, and I need to take two minutes away from your group, because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This is abuse, and that's how I'm gonna do it to others. As for carrying out if anyone has a disease, I can't agree with it if it's... (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: And nervousness is a disease. )......................................................................................................... political argument. In our society, which is very harsh, people are simply marked if they have some kind of disease, so it's hard for them to admit it publicly. We're a very cruel society and I really can't agree with this kind of discussion. I could talk a lot about psoriasis, but I will refrain from this quality of our society. The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31752	Member of the 109th President. It is noble of you to refrain from commenting. However, what you should have done is give Mr Babic a warning immediately without delay because, according to article 109, directly speaking to another MP, he uses swearing and offensive expressions. He spoke personally and in the capacity of the People’s Messenger in an extremely inappropriate way that you noticed. However, what I disagree with is that instead of your abstention you should have reacted and now at this moment give a warning to Mr Babic. What Mr. Babic did is the highlight of rudeness and uncivilized behavior, and it's not his first time. He is not Mr. Babic or a doctor and is not a Mr. Babic man who is capable on any basis to carry out an analysis and to diagnose the MPs. He keeps doing it and he's still yelling at you – nervousness is a disease, and he knows very well what he's done and he knows very well a Latin expression that he used. I think, President, at this point, you, I'm sure you know I'm right. You had to react. You had to punish the head of the SNS parliamentary group and that Mr. Babic voted for himself on the Administrative Board because he went too far. He's gone too far on every basis. This is outrageous, unspeakable behavior. Why is that tolerated, I don't know. If you don't like what I'm saying, if you think everything I'm saying is wrong, feel free to attack me with arguments, say whatever you want. But what's now drawn, it's below each level. It's below every level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31753	Thank you. I'm giving myself a break for ten minutes. I ask you all to focus on discussing this law. We'll continue at 17.00 hours. The word will be given to Boban Birmancevic and we will talk exclusively about the law. Who doesn't want to talk about it is not obliged to attend a session at all. I think we've crossed every line of our mutual communication. [[after breaks]] We can keep working. I think the atmosphere's calmed down. As far as the list is concerned, it's my fault for this shit here in chemical... (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica! ) No, no, Article 112. - We're working. So we're talking about the law, so I decided, there's no replica. So Zoran Bojanic is on the list. Let's go as the list does. I made a mistake, we're going in a row about who's on the list and I'm accepting the MP's intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31755	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, first of all, I would like to say a few words about that other law, which we haven't talked about today, which is a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Elimination of Essential Accident, the Flood in the Republic of Serbia. For a wonderful miracle, I expected today that we would all support this bill, or these two members who are changing, precisely for the reason that we solve all those problems that have not been solved by the given deadline, and the law says within a year of the law's adoption. But I see that some MPs find a way to advertise themselves, make political speeches, and in another's accident they think they've earned some points. In any case, the SNS will support this bill and we will certainly vote unanimously in favour of the amendment and addition of the Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia. As for the proposal for a law on the conversion of rights of use to property on construction land for a fee, for a wonderful miracle the MPs of the previous regime all day long are moved to prove something that is not evidenceable and something that they have had for many years to solve, to improve all these legal proposals, to bring, ultimately, and this law, rather than to pass the first privatisation law where none of those countries of the former Yugoslavia did so. First they did the privatisation, then the convention. So we're treating something that we inherited and the diseases that we inherited. It was mentioned earlier that we shouldn't go back in time. Well, we have to go back in time. Some try to forget to cover everything, like in that song, "Forgett, snow and chess." We can't forget. We did not inherit something ideal in 2012 or 2014. Honey and milk did not flow, so for this year, as we bearers of power, or for three years as we have been participating in the government since 2012, the SNS has done something bad and has passed some bad laws and done some bad things for this country. No, we were as a state, as a nation unscathed in every way until that year 2012. We didn't have anything. And what worked, and in 2012, it didn't work. For ten years, someone had found an alibi for their unhappiness in Slobodan Milosevic, and afterwards tried to find an alibi in the SNS. All the things the gentlemen of the former regime spoke today were without arguments and with no solutions offered. It looked a lot like some political parallels and political speeches. There was talk of Article 6, of Article 8, of Article 12, of the Constitution, and we all know that the Constitutional Court has just made a decision that their draft law was unconstitutional. What was very ugly today, local self-government workers were mentioned in the presentations of certain MPs, as if they were guilty of why some laws, ultimately and about public property and everything, were not passed. Let's not forget, in 2012, we inherited all these same workers. So someone else did it anyway. Let's not blame ourselves on the one who didn't do it. As far as the law itself is concerned, I will not owe much, given that 90% of what I imagined to be saying was said by my colleague Ivana Stoiljkovic, so I have no intention or reason to repeat it, and I think the minister explained the law quite well. What is most important, this law allows, in the end, and the completion of the privatisation process of construction land in Serbia and will finally be the right to use it as a relic of some past times as a quack of property law. The bill also provides conditions for much more extensive investment in construction, because everyone wants to build when they have security, to build on land they own. The experts' assumptions are that this law, or its adoption, will have a positive impact both on the housing and on the arrival of investors in other industries and thus on the creation of new jobs. This bill is just some kind of crown or some sort of end of a procedure that began in 2006. Whether someone didn't want to end it by adopting the Constitution, and then in 2009, by passing that law on planning and building, whether someone didn't want to finish it right, he didn't have the will or didn't want to, we'll see. Anyway, this is a good, quality law. In addition to the three proposals that existed in the public debate, I think the government has decided on the best proposal. After all, we all know that four public debates were held in Subotica, Valjevo, Nis and that there are all concrete proposals and all concrete solutions offered by the ministry and implemented in law. In voter day, the SNS will certainly vote for such a good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31756	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31757	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, I will talk today about the Law amending the Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia. It is clear to all of us that there is a need to extend the validity of the Law on the Elimination of Floods in Serbia until December 2015 to help natural and legal persons who have suffered damage from natural disasters in the area affected by the floods until the final entry into force of this law. As for the Office for Aid and Reconstruction of Flooded Areas, according to reports and findings by state authorities, public enterprises and units of local self-government, it proposed state-run reconstruction programmes in areas brought by the government. Up to now, around 50m euros have been spent to help rebuild damaged and destroyed housing. The aid received does not cover waterway recovery funds, although they are significant and have created conditions for normal functioning and level of protection which is something above the level that existed before the flood. This is a real situation in the field, although the repair process itself was delayed in relation to the potential risk of autumn water. Otherwise, I have information that the revenues collected to regulate the water streams at the republican level are almost twice the cost of this purpose. My city suffered major material damage due to May last year's floods. In the area of the town of Cačka, an organisation and coordination of commissions for assessing the damage caused has been implemented before the law was passed in accordance with the rules in force at the time. Since the May floods, more than 60 members of commissions have been engaged, mostly for over a month, and these have been employees of city administrations, public and municipal enterprises, agriculture ministries, Agronomic and technical colleges, the Institute of Fruiting, as well as volunteers with special knowledge. Commissions have been formed to assess damage to buildings, to assess the damage done in agriculture, to infrastructure facilities and to assess the damage to household matters. Thanks to the extent of the damage, on the one hand, and the size of the city, or the presence of relevant institutions in the city, on the other hand, it was possible to form commissions with the appropriate quality and number of members. In this case, there was sufficient awareness and moral responsibility for the orderly execution of these tasks, but a system is necessary to know who is in charge and responsible for the list of damages and how much compensation for their work. This is because they're e.g. left out of their regular jobs, and in Cačka, the flood affected up to 10% of the population, while others suffered the consequences of labour congestion, some of the key public services, i.e. It was not possible to engage, e.g. persons from the labour market. The specific segment, which has not been reached by the consensus of the national authorities to date, is the damage to economic operators to which the applicable regulations apply. I am referring to the guide on a single methodology for assessing damage from the basic accidents of 1987 and a regulation that has been in force since 2001, which has not clearly defined which competent authority is obliged to reduce VAT on damaged property of economic operators based on the damage assessment, i.e. there is still a balance-rate burden on economic operators with damaged movable assets including material, unfinished product, goods and equipment. The total system of alerts, notifications and equipment of persons in charge of field work, etc. Civil protection is only after the floods are procedureally and formally formed, which is the case in 99% of the cities and municipalities of our country, i.e. The entire cost of civil protection falls to local self-government, which is almost certain, that financially weaker local self-government cannot finance it, and complete equipment from current incomes is not possible over the next few years. For example, in Chačka this includes equipment and training over a thousand faces. As regards the granting of aid for housing, the quality of work has been demonstrated through 496 first-degree solutions issued through the administrative procedure within the record period, which is also the total number of complaints less than 5%, which is the best evidence of transparency and fairness in granting assistance through a complex procedure. Total i.e. The distribution aid is 80 million 730 thousand dinars. The grant of aid to economic operators through 50 administrative procedures was granted to 40 economic operators where only one economic operator complained of the solution. A great deal of praise is due to the employees of the city's administrations who have worked hard at these jobs. More than 20 million dinars have been distributed through the grant of aid to farmers from the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment of 553 corn sowing units, 7,056 litres of diesel fuel. Through donations such as 208.3 tonnes of concerted feeds for cattle, 44.5 tonnes of seed wheat, 53.4 tonnes of mineral fertilizer and other seed goods as well as pasta. Donors from Serbia, we mean cooperatives, 102.5 tonnes of livestock. It is also important to help other non-institutional donors where it was necessary to have a register of what is donated to avoid profiting in such situations. When it comes to damages, on buildings in individual households of 136,190,479, on buildings of business entities 24,710,347, on public undertakings 23,483,564. This damage assessment was carried out by the expert commission of the City of Cačka, made up of licensed construction engineers. In the May floods, 506 households worth 69,731,700 dinars suffered. When we talk about agricultural cultures, the total flooded area was 1,902 hectares, and the estimated agricultural damage of 812.672.180 dinars was reported, while 1,171 households were reported. I'm taking the opportunity to inform you when the Mayan floods were, that at the part of the highway in Preljina, they took away the access to the existing stream. It would be good for the profession to say its own and to adapt the project to the emerging situation because the contractor buried the site with the ground so that there is a fear of some new similar situations, new floods, are being carried away later by cars. Because of the rash itself, 30 households who have never been in the blue area are constantly blue. Each economic operator shall carry out an assessment on the basis of its own, material and criminal liability and shall report to the local self-government unit. They sign, therefore, a statement and thus the local self-government admits damage. The total damage estimate is 587.483.305 dinars. It is important that we know that this data should be taken with the reserve because a good portion of damaged supplies and equipment can be sold as damaged goods which can affect the final amount of damage shown in the final account for the current year of each individual economic operator. The total damage caused by the flood and reported to the republican authorities was 1,769,478,930 dinars. I sincerely believe that the new law now in preparation will regulate this area in a comprehensive way. As you yourself said, Minister, the accent should be put on prevention, to reduce the elemental disasters and disasters. I unreservedly support all the activities of the state-run reconstruction program, and in the voting day I will certainly support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31758	Thank you. The word is Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31759	The President-in-Office, respected Deputy Prime Minister, respected guests, respected colleagues, respected citizens, a very important law, a law we have been waiting for for for ten years and probably that since 2006, when conditions were created with the change of the Constitution to implement and to pass such a law, it would be likely that the economy of the Serbian state and the general economic environment would have been quite different if it had been brought in time, that the previous governments had made sense and that they knew how it should be done and what should be done for their citizens, that is, for their economy. Through adequate legal solutions to ensure real conditions, that businesses, i.e. economic operators, operate better, have just been enabled and will be allowed to pass this law. The bill to make use of property rights essentially brings the advantage that potential investors needed to move both better and more aggressively, i.e. with more resources and with more jobs in Serbia. But that was not possible until this law. Realistically, I want the citizens to know, to share with them, the companies that were purchased through the privatisation process or through the bankruptcy process, or in any other way, were simply bought with such status that they had land for use only, not owned. It is these people who have bought these companies now that, with the help of this law, they have the conditions to buy that land at market price, that they will have a way to invest and that investments will be raised to a much higher level than they have so far. What the opposition was doing during the day was already seen, unfounded and at all costs challenging the law, which was essentially done properly, has a clear goal and is clearly seen in which direction decisions are being defined by this law. Surely whoever wants to work will know that he's working on his own and will have a safe future. What is disputed, I do not know for what reasons in the assessment work that will be passed by law in this case, the units of local self-government, I see nothing controversial and I really support that decision that units of local self-government decide, or make a decision on the market value of immovableity, i.e. land that is subject to conversion. If we have in mind that the tax office is just the decision-maker of how much the immovableity in any unit is worth, I don't see why they wouldn't be adequate enough and capable of assessing the market value of the land on which certain facilities are located. What's more important to say is that it's unserious and irresponsible and unfounded that the ministers of the shade or the shadows as they already call them are challenging the law that no one has had the strength to propose it and bring it, and here this government and this ministry have given a comprehensive bill of law that clearly defines everything. Some disputes over a 99-year period are also unfounded, given that everyone has the right to invest their assets in such a way as to buy land and own it or continue to use it as it has so far but with a certain compensation and that time limit may be up to 99 years where, during any period of that 99-year period, when the owner of a building on a specific land is considered to have met the conditions, to submit a request and to buy that land. It's a simple market orientation and we have to create conditions. This is exactly what the ministry and these laws that are being passed. This is one of the most important laws that is based on the Law on Planning and Construction and opens the doors of all those who really want to work. All those who are trying in Serbia in local self-government, in the province, to do something good for their citizens have just come to a problem with investors and issues – and what about conversion. Here, the conversion will, in addition to the debate of course in this Assembly and certain adjustments that we as MPs will be able to make, probably in two or three days' time, be voted upon, and thus we will no longer have to explain to our investor that it may be, we will see the ministry, we will call the ministry, we will have a law that clearly arranged this area and opened the door for investors. What I'm still trying to say is, I was expecting a more serious debate about flood laws. It is indeed a law that has earned, or not a law, but works and all taken by the government and by all ministries related to floods, indeed is at least commendable or at least for some positive opinion, but that in the whole day's debate that we had with our opposition colleagues no one recognized. So much has been done for the citizens, not only for those in flooded areas but also beyond, precisely thanks to the Flood Law and what we want now is crucial only to change the deadline by the end of the year. Given that we have not been able to do all the necessary things, and much has been done, how best it has been done to testify precisely to the inhabitants of the flooded areas, residents who have been in trouble and who have seen the only light point in the government and the government has adequately responded to them, and therefore all these ministers and all of these members of this government and MPs with full rights can go to these areas and see for themselves how much it is done and bridges, road infrastructures, water streams, houses, various other infrastructure facilities are only indicators of what was done in June of the month, i.e. just two months ago new contracts were signed in May, new funds were provided, which will of course be reused for the recovery of floods. I come from the city of Capca where we've had very, very serious problems. The government has responded in the right way, protected the city and what I know and can announce, of course and with the help of this ministry, it's just the construction of a dikes on the move of Cervntija in the length of 5.3 kilometers, which will already be in August, I think there will be a public tender and we will very quickly protect Shabac from any future floods. What's important for what's happening to this law is prevention. We've been working on that prevention this year since we got out of those floods, we're removing the consequences and we're doing it preventively to just prevent some future emergency situations that may not be, maybe not, but we need to prepare ourselves with maximum responsibility. In the day of voting certainly with praise for the Ministry, above all for the adoption of such an important law which was simply not easy to pass and given the 2009 attempt, which ended as it ended, I call on everyone from the opposition, from the position, of course, that if they think well of their citizens, if they think well of their country, their economy, to just support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31760	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. He's not here. Milan Petric, he's not here. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31761	President-in-Office, honourable minister, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, I am very sorry that there are no former party friends from the Democratic Party to tell them how proud I am to be a member of the presidency in three terms in 2002 and as the only businessman at the top of the Democratic Party, to leave the Democratic Party in a positive manner, because I did not agree with what I then called the globalisation of the Serbian economy. Me and my businessmen then advocated the model of the voucher privatisation, how the smart countries of the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia were doing, and then a little bit later Slovenia, etc. No one wanted to hear that, so here's where the Serbian economy is today. I am truly grateful, Minister, that you remembered, that like many other things you did well, so today it is such an extremely beautiful, short, clear law in front of us. As a businessman, I have had numerous conversations with my colleagues from the Association for the Economic Revival of Serbia, and we think that this law comes at the right time when we should start projects, hire Serbia together, that it doesn't happen like I did back in 1985 from Germany where I lived and worked for 14 years, I had my own firm. When I came here, I found myself as a Serb, just wondering what it means now that I should pay for something without it being mine, without saying what it means to build in someone else's, etc. This is one thing I can imagine for strangers, even more and more I have a lot of questions and answers and contact, my company exports over 70% of products. There are 300 employees, we produce about 2,000 products, so I'm constantly out of the country and people ask, they're very pleased with this government, but order is being introduced. What was past years of chaos and riding where there was no idea what was bribery, corruption, was reduced to a minimum, etc. They usually ask questions, just often asked questions that I didn't really have an answer to what it means for the country's user, what it means for me to buy a factory and if it's on someone else's land, what it means when I don't have the factory or I can't intervene, or if I want to sell it tomorrow, I can hardly sell it because nobody smart and usually smart people have a lot of money, provided they're not mobsters. There's a question of how I'm going to alienate it tomorrow if I don't get paid, I repent for some reason, almost nothing, and only our businessmen, Madam Minister, ask a number of questions when it takes an intubation to get some credits, give credit to a banking system like this that has completely disintegrated in the previous period thanks to the previous regime, so in order to get credit, you have to deliver thousands of documents and papers to be able to intubulate, etc. By creating this possibility that any businessman who wants can land that has so far been everyone's and no one else's to translate and be from his firm. It makes it easier 90% I'd say business and working with banks will be able to easily intubate their assets completely, not ask the question of what's wrong with the land if it's just your building you've been building, etc. In the context of that, I have proposed two amendments and I would ask you to study my amendments. They do not come from me but from a large number of businessmen, and it would be a good gesture indeed to make, that finally domestic businessmen get some stimulation, as opposed to where again thanks to my former democracy, DS and other parties in the coalition, they were favored by far more, multiple, foreign firms, by giving them and giving up to them both communals and entire energy systems for free of charge. You know at 110 kilowatt trafo station near Jagodina where I come from, it's right in Batocina, it's donated, which costs several hundred thousand euros, etc., even millions with power lines, it's been donated to some company, freed of all communals, freed absolutely of any fees for editing city building land, it's all been paid by someone, we're domestic businessmen. So I'm asking you to take a good look at these two of my proposals, it's not my proposals, it's the amendments my fellow businessmen insist on, and they're about to consider the situation, I know it's a difficult situation, that we need to fill the budget, but I'm far from thinking as a businessman that with some relief, some little stimulant would give even more momentum, strength and energy to start these projects that we're talking about. If we could possibly accept these two amendments, this one applies to finding a solution somehow to domestic producers who are working and working today, I don't mean my firm, my firm thank God they're doing great, and I'm saying that on behalf of a large number of businessmen who just fell apart because of what I was saying in the previous presentation. It is in a way that according to the number of workers we try to give them certain discounts or release one part of the payment of the conversion because they paid all the fees, all the communals, everything else, work successfully, and in this way it would be a good incentive of the current government, because it is constantly heard in some way, I would say, maybe I agree with them, regrets – here are the foreigners all we give; it was just earlier years ago, now it was all reduced to one smaller volume, but further foreigners can invest in their profits, not to tax it, to bring it out, etc. I wouldn't be spreading the subject now, to be as short as possible, so please, and that's even in line with constitutional principles, Article 84, especially where there are a number of cases where companies have invested together in infrastructure, even paying land in certain municipalities. I have here a particular example of one businessman, it doesn't matter where he came from, where half a million had to pay and write – land compensation granted to another contractor and land in general use. So he had to have both green areas and everything else to pay for it. He was in an unspeakable position if he gave up at the time when he was a dinar, 400 and a few million, almost half a million marks. You probably know, at that time there was a salary of 60 marks and it was a very large number. There's a lot of cases like that. It's the law of the Constitution, so I'd like to ask you, which I am in my amendment in detail, when I talk about the amendment... So they refer to Article 6 and Article 7. Part two is in accordance with the Land Planning Act. Both are in accordance with the laws, and they are about correcting some blame, as the people would say, that is, injustice somewhere where someone paid for it and where he exercised some rights, to be admitted to it. It is even by the Constitution guaranteed, all economic operators – the same rights, the same obligations. So much, I wouldn't have owed more. I thank you and wish you success in your work. I am convinced that this law will contribute, make it easier for all of us to implement the project – we will work Serbia together, which we are negotiating these days intensively with the representatives of our government. You know the projects very well. They are called – let us work Serbia together, and this is organized production, processing, the highest possible degree and what is most important today, and this is an organised sale in our own trade chains, that we go once, to throw our chains out of the country, first in neighbouring Croatia, and in Bosnia, and in Slovenia, which even at the time of sanctions, did not even allow Belgrade's goods houses, like the then great Serbian brand, to be founded anywhere outside of Serbia. We are witnessing that our Zagreb "Metro", "Mercur", "Merkator" and many other firms in Serbia have established themselves. It's time for Serbia to finally show what it is, and it's incredibly rich, it just needed what it is today, to take the right people and start the economy, to stop young people leaving, to stop those who left, like I did back in the '70s, and then come back in 1985, to get everyone back, because it's hard to be a stranger. Believe me, I had my own company, but it wasn't easy for me. I thank you and wish you successful work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31762	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31763	Dear Deputy Prime Ministers of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Becic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have two very important draft laws for which the SNS in the voting day will give full support for and the reasons my fellow Members and fellow Members of the SNS parliamentary group spoke. I am very grateful to them today for a very high-quality discussion. We will also speak and vote for the reasons and which you, Mrs Mihajlović, today in the middle with colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, because they were justified, carried by the power of the arguments rather than by the power of political impatience. I am sorry that today in the hall, although we are somewhere before the end of working hours, there are no more MPs from the opposition, because at least by their presence, if not by discussion, it would show respect for the tens and hundreds of thousands of people in Serbia who last year were in a flood attack that no one wanted, which no one called for, for which no one in Serbia, of course, was happy and satisfied. The Law amending the Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia extends the deadline to 31 December 2015 and the SNS will support this extension for at least two reasons. The first reason is transparency in the renewal process so far. The process of rebuilding that somehow whenever something happened in Serbia was bad, whether it was an earthquake in the King, whether it was other earthquakes, some other floods, somehow this procedure was always polluted by bad things, not to say some things that even today the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia are concerned about, or was polluted by the fact that the reconstruction was not done in time. So now in the former Kidrich Street in the King, and I remembered it as Kidrich's because in that same street is also the Faculty of Machines where I studied from 1990 to 1992, before I moved to the Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade, so here, and so many years after the renovation, after the earthquake, people couldn't go back to the buildings because they weren't restored. And that's how the renovation and the whole procedure was polluted. I trust and support this law primarily because all Serbian citizens were reminded of solidarity, solidarity that was somehow forgotten in our society, and somehow we all made sure that it didn't happen to us, and what happened to neighbors, relatives, fellow citizens, countrymen, somehow we didn't care much less. In those difficult days in April and May 2014, at one call from the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, thousands and thousands of volunteers agreed in Sabac, but not only in Sabac, but also in Obrenovac and all those cities and municipalities affected by the floods. I am grateful to these people, because the damage that has been done and which is great and for a much richer and more orderly state than that Serbia is a great pity, and for Serbia in particular. The damage would have been far greater if it hadn't been for so many volunteers, so many people who took away from their little ones, and those who didn't have that little, they took away their strength, their hands, their will. Some may have taken away a few squares of living space, so they received those people who had nothing left. I am grateful and I will support this law because the government has acted responsibly, the government that was in a permanent session, all ministers who were in the field, all the ministers we could see in lifeboats both with people and in helicopters and in all those places where they needed to be in order for the level of damage to be as small and the number of victims as possible. I will give this support, and that is the first reason, and that is transparency in the process, transparency in the process of raising funds for the reconstruction of our country, but more importantly, transparency in the process of spending funds. You don't have to trust me. You will say – Babic will speak subjectively, probably. But trust the reports of the organisation "Transparency of Serbia", which has carried out supervision of the implementation of public procurement procedures in the reconstruction. The organisation's report states, among other things, that a public procurement mechanism was established under the Law on the Elimination of Floods had good effects. It is also said that the rules under which they are implemented, as well as the experience from public procurement carried out in the wake of the flood could serve to improve Serbia's regular public procurement system. What better will you do when an independent organization gives all the support of a fair relationship and the fair spending of funds collected to eliminate the effects of the flood. They're not the only ones. I will also remind you that the Citizens' Protection Report says that thousands of citizens have suffered enormous material damage, as well as that solidarity with citizens, the activities of state authorities, and in particular the transparent work of the Government's Office for Aid and Reconstruction of Flooded Areas, and assistance from abroad, have helped mitigate the consequences. It is a little cynical and bad when a comment comes that nothing has been done, that people have stayed out there, and then you get information that is public, which is transparent, which is on the government site of the Republic of Serbia and about which Mrs. Mihajlovic spoke. I don't want to repeat myself, but Obrenovac, Obrenovac is a symbol of the death in 2014, in fact the city municipality that suffered the greatest damage. I'll tell you about the data on the Obrenovac. As of 1 July 2015, material aid was paid for a total of 6,932 households in Obrenovac totalling two billion dinars. I'm sorry that colleagues who said nothing was done don't want to, not only close their eyes, but run away from this kind of data because they're not in the O.R. All families who have been granted a legal solution for the third, fourth, fifth category of damage on a residential facility, and about 80% of the total number of damaged housing facilities, receive assistance from the Red Cross, worth 210 euros in dinar equivalent, as well as building material weighing 200 kg, family hygiene packages to meet the two-month needs. Red Cross aid of 210 euros so far has won over 5,500 families in Obrenovac. Someone just said, I don't know where, that only a hundred houses were built in the restoration. I don't know if that information isn't enough or not good enough, not even for one Obrenovac, let alone for all of Serbia. So far, the state has provided 142 families in Obrenovac whose houses have been torn down in floods, and 65 families have received material assistance in money to build a new house where building a house was not possible in the same space, on the same salary. For 77 families, new houses were built area of 60, 80 and 100 square meters. There are nine other houses in Obrenovac in construction, where some property-legal problems had to be solved before, as well as where additional damage caused by the slides and all those problems that later, after the flood, hit those areas. I am extremely grateful to all the people who have helped in this reconstruction, whether these are private foundations from the celebrated domestic football player Dejan Stankovic, through responsible domestic companies, but what I want to say is that the European family of the peoples from the funds, from the EU donations, has provided an additional ninem euros for additional assistance in the works and materials for families whose state aid was not enough for the full rehabilitation of housing facilities. The agreement with the EU was signed on 30 June 2015 and therefore we need this extension by the end of 2015 to help every man reach each house, so that the realisation of this new aid package began in early July 2015. How serious is the government, how serious is the government's office for recovery after the flood? We took care of it, and the government took care of the tenants. Not only about the property owners, but about the tenants, the people who didn't have the funds for their house, their apartment, they were tenants, and in the floods they had almost everything. The implementation of the programme is under way to help users of damaged, collapsed housing facilities in which the tenants were resident. As part of this programme, there is a payment of assistance for the restoration of furniture of 24,000 to 144,000 depending on the category of damage to the facility. In conclusion, on July 1st, up to 12-13 days ago, aid totalling 34.4 million dinars was achieved on the basis of this programme and was given to 418 families in Obrenovac. I can also tell you about the renovation in the "Brothers of Jugovic" and about social care and how much it is distributed to help farmers in Obrenovac, which is that the organized distribution of seeds for screening over 1,600 ha of land owned close to 500 small agricultural holdings. Also, the same owners were provided with fuel aid worth approximately 5.5 million dinars, or 36 tonnes of fuel, etc., etc. I could probably spend a few more hours or a whole session talking in detail about all the things where the Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with our friends, together with friends from the EU, from all over the world, along with socially responsible individuals and socially responsible companies, worked to rebuild our country. Could it have been faster? Probably, but if we had all rolled our sleeves, that we were all being responsible and serious, that we weren't tripping, we were pushing and helping, that we weren't just like some colleagues who were just rooting for something worse. Is there a more humane and better thing that we all need to bend, as in those days and weeks when the floods happened? Shouldn't we be bending now that we're helping these people who have lost everything in the floods? Because the government did not sit with its hands cut, because it does not sit with its hands cut now, because of a transparent and fair relationship with the collected funds, a responsible relationship with these people, the SNS will give full support to this bill. As for the second law, the Law on the Conversion of the right to use as property on construction land or the Law on Conversion, as short as that to call it, I pulled out a few directions of criticism that I could hear today. The first direction was – you know there wasn't enough time. I do. In view of what some discussions today were, it is clear that you have not even read the title. How do you interpret those people who say - this is a conversion without compensation and you will give this to me not knowing how much building land and you will not know how much funds and they haven't even read the title? I will remind these colleagues who have not read the title, and I will remind all the people who are now following us that this law has the correct name – the bill on turning the right of use into property rights on building land with compensation. Someone, Mrs. Mihajlović, who at least read the title, I'm sure he wouldn't speak as he said today, because if he had read the title, and in these two days he had time to at least read the first page, surely not to say that this law without any compensation gifts or gives building land. They said they didn't have enough time to make this known, to read, to be instructed in the topic. I will also remind you of what you said – based on the conclusion of the Committee on Finance of the Republic of Serbia, the schedule of public debates was set several months ago, so we had a public debate in Belgrade on 20 May, and in Novi Sad on 22 May, in Saturday, on 28 May, in Nis on June 1st, in Valjev on June 10th. Have you ever seen any of the leaders of the former regime in these public debates, Mrs. Mihajlovic? Have you seen any MPs from the opposition or the MP of the former regime? Probably that, as they are now, and they prove and show these empty benches across from me, with all due respect to colleagues and colleagues who stayed to the end, they had something to do. It is likely that there were more tempting Belgrade restaurants, rafts, cafes, beaches, than care for flood victims, rather than care about one important topic they had 12 years to perform in a more transparent, fairer way, so this more transparent, better and fairer way ended up in the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court said – you do not know, you do not know, you do not know or want to. The next complaint that I heard today and talked about today was that this law, you know, is bad and that this law only goes hand in hand with individual ones, because now it is no longer popular to tell the tycoons but – the owners of group capital. I would remind you that the draft law which was the subject of a wide public debate, which I was talking about, was also mentioned by Mrs Mihajlovic in the period from 20 May to 10 June 2015. Also, the draft law was submitted for the sake of a statement in Serbian and English to the European Integration Office to forward it to the European Commission. The European Integration Office forwarded the draft law to the European Commission, which submitted a letter on 6 July 2015 informing the ministry that the European Commission has no objections to the proposed text of the draft law. And now I don't understand when some colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary groups, who are the keepers of the European integration of the Republic of Serbia, gave up European values? Since when do individuals who and now here smile like this accept this argument are bigger Europeans than the people of the experts sitting in the European Commission? Either he'll say, yes, we gave up on European values or he'll say that all the arguments in the heat of political struggles are so spilled today are not right, because each other can't. Or do you think the European Commission has people who are analphabet in relation to, say, a colleague of Bozovic. And that's why they know less than their colleague Bozovic. They are less aware of whether one law is European, whether it is correct, whether it has one general good, not individually or somehow it is, and not for the first time, it is not the first time, and you remember how Mr. Pajtic so generously criticised the Labour Act, and then that criticism disappeared after several hours, because it was found that he criticised his Labour Act. I'm afraid that some controversy that has been conducted today and some criticism about this Law on Conversion was actually a criticism of the law that was passed in 2009. the year because this conversion law has been done with the maximum public debate and with respect and acceptance by the European Commission. The third argument in the criticisms I heard here today, which is that this law will not open new investments. If on one side you have one cheerleading criticism, a sharp fan review – this will not, this is not a disaster, this will not open any new investments, no new jobs, none of those people who have invested in Serbia in terms of investments, and then they have accepted the sale of Miskovic's assets and said – well, it is a direct foreign investment, those who praise Serbia's investments by 2012, and with investments, of course, new jobs, if we know that over 4 years from 2008 to 2012, more than 400,000 people have lost their jobs, so where are those investments? Can we trust these and those people when they say -- this will stop investment or will we trust the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and Tens, hundreds of thousands of companies that belong, which work and operate within the Serbian Chamber of Commerce? Whether we trust Mr Bozovic or we trust "Naled", also one association that is respectable in business circles, which brings together dozens and hundreds of businessmen and which is very active in order for Serbia to advance on the list of countries that are open and tempting for foreign investment. Why not say as an argument to those who say – well, we are there in which place, so yes, because of your Law on Planning and Construction we were in 186 places of 191 states. Do you brag about that? Do you boast that there was no working body within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia active in business, along with other branches and bodies of the Government, that this level should not be in that environment, which only the mediocre say is gold, that we are no longer in 91 places, as we are now. For the first time, this government, the Government of Aleksandra Vukic and the SNS, formed a working body, chaired by, if I am not mistaken, you, Mrs Mihajlović, together with your team with a task to step by step, and if I know how difficult it is to climb one single place, and if I know it is not enough to pass the law, but to implement it, follow it, follow it for a year and what the effects of each law are, so that we can expect improvement on that list. This is the government that took that as a problem. This is the government that's working on it. We don't stick our head in the sand like some people who just criticized this law have been doing for years. I'm not going to talk about some of the details of this law because my colleagues and colleagues spoke very highly of it. These are the laws that will extend the deadline until the end of 2015, to give the chance to be at the prevention, but also to those who have lost much in the floods, and some of them, to improve the conditions of life, to give the roof over their heads, but as we just heard from Mr. Birmančević that Cerventija, I'm not sure if I said well, I think that I did, and we were together Mr. Birmancevic to determine that Sava was never a threat to Capcu, but to the place where the ships were coming out, that Sava Šapcu would not threaten either at Cerventija, but not at the silos where we were also in those nights. This is a law that will put an end to a procedure that many before us had neither the courage nor the knowledge to put an end to. This is a law that will improve the state of the RS budget because 50% of these funds go to the RS budget, not to the tycoon companies' budgets, as it has been so far, but also to the Restitution Fund because we also care about those who once owned or are entitled to that land. Because of all this spoken today by the MPs and MPs of the SNS and your Mrs Mihajlović SNS will support both of these legislative proposals in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31764	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Bozovicu, you have the right to a replica, to mention names and names. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31765	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although unlike some MPs who blindly believe in other people's eyes, I believe in my own eyes. The 2009 law did not prevent the RS government from being the largest development centre in the region by 2012, nor the Belgrade City Administration until 2013. Investments of over two billion on average, three bridges in Belgrade in five years, millions of squares annually. It's obviously a matter of amateurism and ability. The fact that we're on Duing List 186, that's for the simple reason that you've replaced the DS from Belgrade's government, which by then artificially caused 100 million annual budget revenues to increase Serbia's position on the Duing List to 169. You inherited 169th place, and you came to 186th of 191. Congratulations! No matter how hard we try and after this heated debate to talk about how many floods were over, I was in the Great Field a few days ago, I don't know if you have any awareness that people aren't satisfied, that their homes are still not restored. When it comes to Krupanj, Smederevska Palanka, Parachin, Svilajnac, the situation is more or less the same or similar. The renovation isn't over, and you promised September 1st last year. We're going to vote for the law when it comes to the extension of the renovation, because we think you didn't do your job right and we're going to give you a little more time. When it comes to the law of conversion, I'll tell you about it in my last few minutes, if I have, something more about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31766	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31767	If you hadn't graduated from law school, I might really understand that you boasted that in 2009 you passed a law that was against the constitution. I don't know if there's any higher law in the state than the Constitution. For me, the Constitution is sacred to all of us. So the 2009 law was unconstitutional. As a man who finished law school, you should know that. Furthermore, when you talk about these big projects, these bridges and everything you've done, should we go back to their prices and the value of investment? I'll give you another piece of information. When you're talking, of course, about the Duing Business List of the World Bank, while DS was in power, depending on whether someone was your friend or wasn't your friends, they were setting up and giving building permits, so some of them who weren't friends waited three, four, five, seven years, or someone with whom no deal was found, I don't know what kind, but certainly some kind of thing, then they also waited five, seven years, and some others were getting building permits right away. Then it turns out there was an almost black bureaucracy while you were running this country. On average, 267 days were waiting for a construction permit, and I will tell you that I have granted certain building permits to some who have waited seven years while you were in power. The time it took for someone to get a power connection while you were running the country was 90 days, and today it's 15 days, thanks to the work of this government. Today, thanks to the work of this government and the Law on Planning and Construction, a building permit is being obtained in Belgrade in seven days, but under 30 days under the law. So I wouldn't brag at all about what you've been doing, because we'd be much nicer to talk about new policies today, but unfortunately, we have to fix everything that you've left behind. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31768	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31769	Just another argument on what Mrs. Mihajlovic said, when at least these bridges were in question and all that was done in Belgrade up to a few years ago and the fact that we found the historic largest deficit of more than 22% through the change of government in Belgrade. None of what you're saying did not come from your resources, nor from your real resources, but because you've burdened the people of Belgrade with many future generations. Not to mention those prepaid reconstructions of King Alexander's Boulevard for over 6.5m euros, or for many other projects dealing with the prosecution. I wouldn't want to get into that kind of trap. Thank God the DS is no longer in power, because while it was in power, and this is the Duing Business List, in 2008 149 we were based on the issue of construction permits, and in 2012 179. Excellent progress for DS, just 30 seats down, and they can only say from political acuity that business only affects whether DS will be in power or not. Thank God it's not, and it's never gonna happen again, because we can never sink like we sink with your power again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31770	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has an authorised representative of the DS, MP Balša Bozovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31771	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, it's not true what a former colleague was saying, but, of course, it's his honor and face. Data exists and are official on the site. What is about Mrs. Mihajlovic's answer, is that I have to tell you, I would not have if I hadn't graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, not the law put out of force, but the provisions relating to the 2013 conversion. Do you know why? If you don't know, I'll explain that thing to you. For the simple reason that this conversion allowed a discount for someone with an example. Luka Belgrade, the 400m market value, is to take away what he paid in privatisation, 40m, and must then pay 360m euros. The Constitutional Court said it wasn't possible. The Constitutional Court said - gentlemen, there is no discount, you have to pay everything, and you are giving it away for free today, without compensation. Well, that's the point. In Article 8, which is the most controversial member of this law, you have made it possible for one who has acquired suspicious privatisations of property over a particular company, you have allowed someone to obtain land that was built without compensation, and one which was not built to avoid the payment of land through the institution of lease when it comes to the transfer from the right of use to property. That's why the law is criminal and that's why the law is tycoon and that's why the DS is against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31772	Thank you. Dr Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31773	About what's the point, I'll tell you. Since that law in 2009, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has annulled members from 185 to 200 as unconstitutional, as well as a member... (National MP Balsa Bozovic throws out of town. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31774	Please, Mr. Bozovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31775	... As well as Article 103(1), therefore, all that was the essence of that law relating to the conversion of the right of use, the Constitutional Court annulled it. So, I have to admit that as a graduate lawyer again, I'm not a lawyer, you should know that. As for the fact that someone with this law, not someone, but the Serbian government, gives construction land built or not built, I think you really need to read the title of the law one more time, but also read its contents. What is absolutely true is that we will allow this law, not only for the land to be made for urban purposes, which was not possible in previous years, but for sure only one hectare of construction on that unbuilt building land generates a revenue of 3.5m euros, for example. So we're going to do everything we can to build in Serbia under the law, not by doing to someone, not by doing what you've done, not by talking about the tycoons you've made laws with, and that's why today we're correcting everything that you've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31776	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Mr. Bozovic, you have no right to a replica, you are not mentioned, not even DS, and neither are you personally. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31777	Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, Article 107(1). You know, it's not enough when a colleague of Christmas just now, and you don't warn him, he says – well, of course, everything the previous speaker said, it's not all true. Well, now I'm gonna use his argument. Will you believe the words of Balša Bozovic or the words of USAID "Project for Better Terms of Business" and "Naleda", the partner of our society, the partner of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to improve their situation on the Duing Business List? Are you saying that USAID is lying? This was just said by Mr. Bozovic because I read this data, the data presented by USAID and NAED. Whether it is the Democratic Party, we have just seen that European values are being denied, it is not responding to the data and opinion of the European Commission, and now it says that USAID is lying, that NASED is not telling the truth. To what extent will this humiliation go? Who do we trust for a word? Who do you trust? On the word of Balša Bozovic? Or the people who are helping us in this process. You've sunk 30 seats in four years, from 149 to 179. You closed your eyes to this problem, not the government of Aleksandra Vukic and SNS. We have support for Serbia's systemic placement. For the first time, Serbia has taken a systematic approach to improving Serbia's rankings on this list. Both Ms Mihajlović and Mr Vujovic are co-chairing and we have support and we have friends in the framework of NAEDA and the Department of Public Policy and Support of USAID. That doesn't suit you, Mr. Bozovic. Who do we trust? On your beautiful eyes to believe?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31778	Thank you, Mr. Granny. It's my duty to explain. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, because as chairman, we don't have that many opportunities for any untruth in the National Assembly to punish. Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Balsa Bozovic, authorised representative of the Democratic Party. You have three minutes and 20 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31779	I thank the chairman. As we have said in today's heated debate, these attacks on the Democratic Party only say that in the absence of arguments and results, the SNS still requires only excuses. The fourth year of the SNS government has done absolutely nothing. Those attacks and they shout and shit at the Democratic Party say only that they themselves know Mrs. Mihajlovic, and the ruling majority that this is the tycoon law, a law that takes a billion and 492m euros from the budget to Serbian citizens and gives to tycoons and oligarchs in Serbia. That's true. What makes the adoption of such a law, which I can only assume, is whether it was written in Lucy Belgrade, is for the simple reason that this is the most valuable property in the City of Belgrade that you give to Lucy Belgrade, or its owner. You know very well who he is and what he's called, and apparently, I don't want to go on returning debts from 2012. We made tycoons pay for conversion. The Constitutional Court has challenged the discounts. You're giving tycoons today and you're actually doing something today that doesn't go in favor of those budgets from municipalities, cities, autonomous provinces to the Republic and also for the Restitution Fund. Once again, citizens will have to cut salaries and pensions so that you will have to pay the restitution fund. The lease, it's another way to avoid paying for conversion by those who have acquired their enormous wealth through robbery privatisations. You said a few moments ago how citizens in Serbia live better. Serbia's citizens don't live better, they live much worse, you live better, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its partners live better, all others live much, much worse. The law written for the interest and account of someone else is a law that will never get the support of the Democratic Party. We have very clear and concrete arguments, Article 8 is against the constitution. Article 8 without compensation, not compensation as some MPs have said, allows tycoons to obtain property without a single paid dinar. It's a crime. It's pure insolence. One shred of patriotism is not in this law because it does not defend the interests of the people, it defends not the interests of the Republic of Serbia but defends the interests of large capitalists in Serbia. That's why the Democratic Party is against it, 99 years of lease and I end up with, is something that represents the biggest, perhaps shame in this bill, for the simple reason that you lend those multimillionaires to Serbia, while honest people don't pay for electricity, they don't pay for basic life supplies, and let it go to your soul and face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31780	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. He's got the advantage of hurting the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31781	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you have allowed the violation of the Rules of Procedure of 106 and 107 to occur to you. - that the speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Here was an accusation against all those who supported this government that they wanted to transfer land to the tycoons, to convert land to those people who had committed robbery privatisation. Now, I don't know if my colleague can help, he certainly has to cooperate, but I'm asking – who did this robbery privatisation and who gives these people the right to insult the dignity of the National Assembly and ourselves here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31782	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. You don't want the Assembly to plead. Thank you. It's common knowledge so it's not worth giving that information. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31783	You made those multimillionaires. They will pay market value for conversion by this law. Secondly, when you say there's a scream, a joke and someone attacking the DS, I think that every day we should always remind ourselves, and you and the citizens of Serbia of what you left to Serbia after your reign and what you've done since 2000 and how long you've put us in and what you've done with all the privatisations. To remind the citizens of Serbia, that it is never forgotten that 650 privatisations in the dispute or in the termination of the contract, that these privatisations were not made by the SNS, were not at the time in power but rather by the DS. These tortured people and all of us together, so for the past ten years, we've been losing our jobs, that we've been waiting in line because you've been making laws where you could never get a building permit but you've been waiting for it for five, six, seven years or you've had to pay someone to get a building permit without talking about the conversion that you're talking about. Because of the citizens of Serbia, the conversion or transfer of the right of use to property rights or the lease is done with compensation. The port you mention so many times is an unbuilt land and will certainly go at market value, and the port area that the Serbian government will declare will not be the subject of conversion. Therefore, we take care of it differently from you. I'll give you one more piece of information. So we care about working and building in Serbia. About the lost profit, about the lost and not built buildings in the previous periods, we will only assess what the values are, but the fact is that if we take only 500 hectares of land to be built, the construction industry will generate revenue of 1.5 billion euros. To repeat once again, if you haven't heard, if it is built on only one hectare, let's say in one of the major cities in the first or second zone, the construction industry will generate 3.5m euros. Therefore, you must admit that a long time ago this law was to be passed and that if you had thought about Serbia you would have done so long ago and today we would not have talked about the destroyed construction industry but would have talked about a developed construction industry that generates complete economic growth in Serbia. You failed, you lost the election, but that's why I don't think it's bad at all, you can call and yell and yell, whatever you call it, but the citizens of Serbia need to know what you left behind and they need to know what we're doing to fix it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-13-0.u31784	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (No) According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. We'll be back to work tomorrow at 1400 hours.
