ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26143	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the session. Please, to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., to insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending: Nada Lazić, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, Miroljub Stankovic, Zlata Djerić, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the choice of a judge who is first elected to the judge's office. According to Articles 89 and 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Aleksandar Stoiljkovski, election member of the High Council of the Judges and Vesna Janjic, an independent adviser at the Department of Status Affairs of the Judges at the High Council of the Judiciary. You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by the High Judicial Council, as well as a report by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Whether he wants to speak to a representative of Proposer Aleksandar Stoiljkovski, an election member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary in the order of judges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26144	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the High Council of the Judiciary has tabled a motion to elect a judge to be elected for the first time in the Criminal Court of Appeal. The proposal was submitted for the election of Maja Vadnjal, who is currently serving as deputy public prosecutor at the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. You received her biography in support of our proposal. I'll just briefly specify what's most fundamental. Since the trial was passed in 2002, she was the first judge's assistant at the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade. She worked in criminal matter. In 2010, she also worked at the Court of Appeal in the Department of Organized Crime, and since 2010, she has been the deputy prime prosecutor in Belgrade. According to the High Council of the judiciary, as well as the similar opinion of the prosecutor's office, it meets all the conditions for the exercise of this function for which it is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26145	Thank you. Does anyone want a word from authorized promoters, rapporteurs, competent committees? No, I don't. Thank you. Does anyone want a word from the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? No one wants to discuss it? We've got a few authorities, but no one wants to discuss it. Dragan Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26146	Madam President, the honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as an authorised representative of the SNS, I have the need today, although I expected the other authorised representatives of the parties would want to discuss it, I say a few words about it and make a retrospective of how we have managed to reach this proposal of the High Council for a proposal for a Judge of the Criminal Court of Appeal. In fact, there is a decision by the High Council of the judiciary on the basis of criteria and criteria for determining the choice of judges, i.e. how and how judges and presidents are chosen. An attitude is given in which the conditions should be met by those persons in order to be selected. There is also a competition that is public, which is given to the entire professional public, and also to the layman in Serbia, where competitions and this competition can be played by anyone in particular. After that, the High Council of the Judiciary gives and forms a committee that examines, interviews candidates, gives its opinion and views on who it is to the people who applied to the competition the best, who shows the best results in the university, who in the best way possible passed the judicial exam, who, and in any way, proved himself in the profession, or at work while being a trainee, as they passed the judicial exam, of course, whether with a mark or on several occasions. Also, there is always a request for the opinion of the judge's sitting, or of all the judges in the court in which the candidate works, and the paper is that judges are asked to take the opinion directly of the higher court. In the case of a lawyering candidate, the opinion of the lawyer community in which he or she has directly functioned or the lawyer's chamber to be declared on that candidate is also required. After that, when the first degree is over, the proposal comes to the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which can also debate all of this one more time, make a decision and then go to the National Assembly with a concrete proposal. In this case, two degrees are complete. In all previous cases, of course, it was done the same way. We are now representing the third degree, so control of what you have done, but without a desire to interfere in that professional work, to ask that you question your decision from some of our political ideas and desires needed to achieve certain political points. I have said it many times and I will repeat, never since 2012 have any of the SNS Members interfered in the work of the High Council of the judiciary. We've never been too long. We've never intervened for anyone, we didn't want to accept anyone's initiative, nor anyone's desire to help him and to make any of you from the High Council of the judiciary, who's coming to this high house any contact, whether we're going to do it on the phone or we're going to be in some places. I would just like to remind the Serbian public that once, at the time before 2010, at the time of the rule of the opposition parties, when it was heated and lit by the judiciary and when the choice of judges was in the pubs, when the choice of judges and prosecutors was on the DS Municipal Committee in Vlasotinc, when one of the best, unscrupulous ways, I would say to the judiciary, and everything in the form of reconstruction, all in shape that will be better from the moment on. Over 800, I'm even thinking about 900, which is the judge who, mostly the best, most proven in his profession, was out of a job, was literally hit on the street. What's worse about all that they didn't do, but they were getting paid, and their work was done by judges and prosecutors who now stayed in small numbers, and that's why we have what's called a lag, or a huge number of cases that were not finished, because you had one period when people were working there falling off their feet, they couldn't even physically get jobs done, they were carrying objects home. They've tried every possible way to do what their norm is, but they'll admit it's hard when every day you get new objects to finish them the best way possible. There was this "election headquarters" at the coffee shop, and there was a map of Serbia, registered all the municipal, basic, now basic, senior and other courts and prosecutors. There came note coming from Vlasotinc, from Vranj, from Belgrade, there was determined who, who can't, who can't, who can't be a judge, who can't, who can't be a prosecutor. Incidentally one document came out about it and the public was familiar with it on 8 March. In 2014, I would just like to read a few sentences from that letter. It is said that the letter and how important it was in the re-election, because everyone the DS praised is re-elected, while others who have not received the commendation are not re-elected. Such assessments were given by the president of the SO in Vlasotinc, Srdjan Susulic and the chairman of the DS Municipal Committee in Vlasontic, Dr Slavoljub Mito. So he says, the president of the court for one of the candidates -- the president of the court since 2000 has broken between the DS and the DSS, has surpassed the current interest where the DSS is considered, imagine. In principle, honest, but not communicative and not entrepreneurship. He deserves it. I don't know what it says here. He deserves something. The next candidate is a sympathiser, a member of the DS, honest, valuable, side by side not corrupt, ten years back providing legal assistance to the DS. Probably the best in court, ambitious, deserves to move forward, interested in a judge in Nis, not a disputed one. There are ten more of them, these are the characteristics they gave from the municipal boards, this is one example that we have, which the public of Serbia knows. Why did I read this? I want to compare what the situation in the judiciary was then, how the judges were chosen, why we came to the situation that the Venice Commission declares that this reconstruction of the judiciary is a disaster for Serbia. I would even call that intervention "Mercy Angel" was a truly humanitarian character compared to the reconstruction of the judiciary that was done in 2010 under the patronage of a minister who is now in the ranks of this Parliament and is a national MP. All of them should stand up and be silent for one minute in respect of the damage they and the victims to which they made such a reconstruction, causing enormous and material and moral damage both to Serbia and to all those people who, after the Constitutional Court's decision in 2012, were returned to their jobs but many of them were separated with their lives, passed away, died from torment, distanced themselves from family, stopped from society, were exposed, just because someone had glued the label to them that they were corrupt, that they were not chosen because they had a suspicious morale, because someone at that time did not like it or because they were not subject to it, like these DS supporters or even better to be a member of the DS, then you are the best judge, and you can have a pass wherever you want to go. You gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary if you continue to work like this, and I have no doubt that this will have the full support of the SNS parliamentary group. We will never interfere with your choice. I am against what, those ideas that exist, which is that when we change the Constitution, the decision to elect judges and prosecutors is made out of parliament. I don't think that's good. I think it's easier for you when you form a committee that gives you results and parameters whether it's about people who are professional, who are educated, who are trained, who are highly moral, to get the best out of that list of good ones and give this home and thus relax your role that influence on you can't be to the extent that you're someone who decides everything and everything you do comes to this high house. Here are the representatives of the people, the MPs who match their base, their electoral unit, their voters and these voters at all times watch and monitor what is happening economically in Serbia and what is in the economy, what is happening in the judicial system. They all weigh whether we make the right decisions or whether those decisions are valid. Yesterday was a year since the constitution of this House. We've passed over 250 laws and I don't think we've made any mistakes in choosing all the judges and prosecutors we've done so far. That's a confirmation of what I'm saying that no one has complained about our choice. No one objected. No one wrote or performed in public by complaining that the choice was illegal, that someone else had to be chosen, not this candidate. In this way, through one three-step and through this final act, so the finale in the Serbian Parliament we get a round picture of the judiciary in Serbia and since you will do so I suppose you will indeed have our full support and we will today seem to be voting on this, choosing your proposal, voting for your proposal. I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate my colleague and wish her the best possible way to do this job, and by chance today is April 17th, today is the full 26 years I've been in law enforcement. So I want her to be honest and honest for the next 26 years, and maybe 40 years doing this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26147	Anybody else answer for a word? I mean from smaller groups? I mean, they were the biggest but the first ones answered. The first ones called, it makes sense. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26148	Thank you. President, I hope that the applause we just heard was not about Mr. Dragan Nikolic's scandalous statement that the action "Mercy Angel" NATO bombing was a humanitarian action. I hope you heard that, Mr. President. I hope...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26149	How, "merciful angel" after the bombing, so you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26150	"Mercy Angel" NATO bombing, that was a humanitarian action. I hope Serbian Progressive Party MPs don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26151	Yeah. Thank you very much. You didn't answer for any replicas. You haven't called, and you're talking about the candidate's proposal, so I'd like to ask you to talk about the candidate's proposal or about the judiciary or the way you choose, and when you want to talk about it with Mr. Nikolic, you'll ask me to allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26152	So, Mr Nikolic, the authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party, had one historic approach, such as the Serbian Progressive Party's accession, because MPs, or authorised representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party, always talk about the past, never the present, never the future. It is shameful and scandalous to call "Merciful Angel" a humanitarian action... On the other hand... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26153	You don't want a replica again. So, you're abusers and that I've referred you to the agenda. When you want a replica, come in. It's not hard to be nice, I hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26154	In no way has the previous speaker spoken of the proposed judge...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26155	So now you want me to cut the speech or not cut the speech, but he didn't talk about you either.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26156	That's right. So, I will not apply the historical method, I will apply the methods of analysis of the current situation in the judiciary, I will not even apply a comparative method at the age of 90, and I will not even apply the results of the court's situation and the situation of the judiciary at the time of Milosevic and Seselj's mandate. I will talk about the current state of the judiciary in Serbia, a material source of law, a context in which the decision on the election of a judge in Belgrade is formed, not in Vlasotinc. Right? Representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary, today we are choosing a judge in Belgrade, not in Vlasotinc, as his colleague spoke of the choice of judges in Vlasotinc. Is Belgrade on the agenda? Yes, it is. Okay. So, we are talking about the election of Maja Vadnjal, deputy public prosecutor at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. A colleague spoke of the choice of judges in Vlasotinc. On the other hand, the situation in the judiciary, which characterizes three years of the Serbian Progressive Party's mandate and the Socialist Party of Serbia's three-year-old, is already clearly the worst judiciary, the judiciary, that is, the worst justice minister of Serbia's state, I don't mean these latest independences, but overall independence, or what one of my colleagues wanted to use- since the arrival of southern Slovenians in these areas. So the state in which the judiciary had not worked for four months didn't work because lawyers and people in the judiciary estimated there was nepotism, a party decision in the election of notaries. That notaries have been selected in one illegal way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26157	Dear colleague, be kind when we're here to discuss the choice of notaries to remember and to talk about all this. Please, about the judiciary, if we can.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26158	No previous speaker said anything about today's agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26159	Yes, he congratulated his colleague on his future...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26160	Congratulations, I congratulate him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26161	No--her, she's a woman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26162	Since you like to use the term generic for male-female gender, here I will congratulate her, just because you're called National Assembly President, that's why I used that term.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26163	I don't care, just don't break me, please, call me whatever you want. President, President...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26164	You can only expect to be broken by you sitting next to you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26165	Okay, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26166	... Don't expect me. So, please don't get all worked up that way with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26167	I won't, but you're only flaunting the same way, and we've overstepped some criteria on both sides.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26168	So the current situation in the judiciary is characterized by uncertainty, the fact that with judges, judicial assistants, people who work in the judiciary, they don't all have 90,000 salaries. Some people there have a salary of twenty-something thousand. Is that our relationship to justice? Is endangering the independence of the judiciary that a trial is being held from session to session in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from day to day. So here sits the DA's office and the jury, sitting here with various forms of scandal, using some other expressions that have become quite media-interesting, and that express judgments before people's trial, which, behold, we meet these days at airports. The famous "cosmajac" convicted of Serbia's prime minister, travels freely around the world, the largest drug boss in the Balkans, whose name no one should have said. Arrested one weekend, and next week a man travels, he's supposed to make a blanket, cover some other events. So, gentlemen, we have a catastrophic situation in the judiciary, as well as in other areas, education, health care, infrastructure, military, police. Tell me some area that there's something moving, except for the media spin, the day-long guesting of selected persons on TV shows, where the verdicts are made, they're talking about some great future that no one's seen in three years. Of course this is a statement by counterpart Nikolic that we don't really know what an independent judiciary is, that we don't know what the third branch of government is, what does an independent judiciary mean? This means that judges, prosecutors, are excluded from the pressures of the executive authority, the legislative authorities, of course, and are protected from state and other media, from commenting and telling judgments past courts, and this is unfortunately happening in Serbia today. Therefore, the state of the judiciary at the moment when we choose, should be an honorable function and those people working in the judiciary should be respected, respected. Judges and doctors have always been respected and respected, prosecutors of course. They had special suits. Do we today see in the judiciary people who have their integrity? We can't see, because the other pillars of power, primarily the executive government, are constantly pressing and it's not true that the judiciary is now isolated from the pressure of the executive authority. There has never been more pressure on the judiciary than the situation in Serbia today has ever been. Do you have any arrests that haven't been announced in the media before? Do you have any more significant arrests that the prime minister has not announced? Is the prosecution independent? How does a leak get information? How does a certain high-ranking official know the details of a helicopter crash investigation before the D.A. knows it even before the court or some independent commission knows it? (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: Is this the topic of the agenda? So this is the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26169	It's from your point of view. You probably left this morning with the intention of talking about a general political situation in our country. I'm still inviting you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26170	Believe me, President, I didn't intend to speak at all today. Given that one prosecutor was elected, if it hadn't been for Mr. Nikolic's exposure, I wouldn't have answered the question. However, from the fact that he said the "merciful angel" was a humanitarian action until he talked about the Vlasotin instead of choosing judges in Belgrade. Where will your soul be that the "merciful angel" was a humanitarian action, President, how could you not interrupt it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26171	I didn't hear that line at all. I'm being honest...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26172	Take it, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26173	I will, but you keep...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26174	Will you punish the messenger who said that sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26175	Do you think you're wasting your time?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26176	I'm not wasting it. This is a very important thing. I will now give up further discussion, but please give me an answer, will you punish the MP who said that the "merciful angel" was a humanitarian action?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26177	Do you want us to judge something that the MPs here would surely have responded if they had heard such a sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26178	Get a stenogram. I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26179	Please, this doesn't make any sense anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26181	I thank you for your understanding. This doesn't make any sense what you've done now. So, you take your word for it, you speak from the agenda, and then you say you're upset with the discussion and we're talking about something a hundred. So it really doesn't make sense. (Dear Nikolic, from town: Replica. ) (Alexander Martinović, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica, no one has mentioned you, a party, no one. Dragan Nikolic is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26182	Thank you, Madam President. Just for the sake of the Serbian public, I would like to explain, and I would really ask you to take a stenogram of my speech and read it during the session, because this is where it was brought to me, which is less important, to my SNS party and to the entire SNS parliamentary group in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I said the whole sentence, and someone here pulled part of the sentence, actually just the first part of the sentence. My sentence was – that the NATO Pact action was called a hypocritical "Mercy Angel" humanitarian activity compared to the activity undertaken during the reconstruction of the judiciary, i.e. the reorganisation of the judiciary in 2010. I can't repeat exactly what was said in what I was saying, but I am asking that a stenogram be taken and that a stenogram be read, and I hope that a colleague who was just about to leave parliament, who had no intention of speaking and who had mentioned my name 10 times...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26183	He won't leave parliament, just out of the O.R. I thank you. Please, for the greater good, let us continue to work and let the stenogram say its own.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26184	Yeah, that's exactly my insistence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26185	Thank you, I'm saying that for the sake of Parliament. I thank you very much. We're going back to work. The word is Petar Petrovic. Please, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26186	Madam President, I didn't want to start by calling on behalf of the Justice Committee, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government Committee, which discussed the proposal of the High Council of the Judiciary for the first time to elect judges, but I felt the need to act now. I hope that according to the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to speak about it now, and I can also speak as a representative of the JS parliamentary group. So, on the committee where we discussed the proposal, it was discussed, and right away to say that the Committee unanimously supported the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary and proposed to the National Assembly that the lady whose name you have in the proposal be elected as the judge who was first elected to the judge's office. The Committee has not considered anything more than that. He did not consider the situation in the judiciary, he did not consider the trial within a reasonable period, he did not consider how judges were elected before, he did not consider the general situation in the Serbian judiciary, because it was not a topic on the agenda of the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government. I would ask all MPs' groups, regardless of whether they are in a position or opposition to use parliamentary law and to seek a debate on the issue of the last Thursday of the month when the assembly is sitting, and that, if possible, if there is an opportunity to discuss the situation in the Serbian judiciary. In fact, last time we spent more time talking about everything else than candidates. Today we have the possibility for the Rules of Procedure and according to the agenda to only talk about whether we have the knowledge that the proposed candidates for these or those reasons should not be elected, because some of the knowledge that we may have, which did not have the High Council or the Committee on Justice, the state administration and local self-government, were determined by the final proposal that came here before us. I'd like to ask all the distinguished colleagues and colleagues to stick to the agenda, to talk about the candidates. My smallness has long been in this National Assembly of the Republic, and whenever the subjects were the choice of judges, we have always talked about candidates, or we have challenged possibly some proposal for a candidate to choose either for a judge or for a prosecutor. That should also be done this time, and I, too, on behalf of the Unique Serbia, urge that we stick to what today is the topic of the agenda, and the topic of the agenda is the choice of this lady or Miss for the judge who is first elected. I ask all distinguished colleagues and colleagues to support the proposal of the VSS, which also supported the committee and to elect a judge or a lady who is first elected and at the same time wish her successful work in her judicial career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26187	Thank you. I fully agree with you, I'm trying to focus on the quality of the candidates, not on the general story, and I don't think that Mrs. or Miss is painting qualities in a professional way because we don't tell male candidates Mr. or Miss, so I'd like to ask you to get it out of your speech for equality. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26188	I would like to thank the President. Very briefly on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, we unreservedly support and agree with the position expressed by the chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr Petar Petrovic, given the indisputable fact that today we have an exclusive debate on the proposal of the candidate who is first elected as the holder of the judicial function. In this direction, the SPS parliamentary group supports the proposal of candidates, bearing in mind that the procedure which includes the choice of candidates, is implemented under the law, that the criteria for which the SPS parliamentary group considers to be constantly upgraded, that they are in one process which implies the adaptability of the criteria to the situation in the judiciary, according to the judge's status and the burden on the judge by the number of cases, that we support everything that the VSS is taking and is doing in the direction of assessing and evaluating the work of judges and that, when all this is considered, the candidate on whom today is debated has undoubtedly our support. What I want to point out in the end is the fact that precisely because of the debates that have started outside what involves the agenda and the topic of debate, it is necessary to approach a serious reform of the judges' election process in order to move the judges out of parliament, ensure full autonomy and independence of the judiciary and only the VSS decides on the choice, without the role and participation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it would thus avoid negative connotations by party, specifically my party, who absolutely did not participate in the Justice Ministry from 2000 to 2012. She did not make any decisions, so she did assess from that point of view if we had to use policy already, and unfortunately we have to, because we are here in a desire to avoid politics, in a desire that political attitudes are in no way imposed when it comes to judicial officials, the SPS parliamentary group supports this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26189	Thank you. Does anyone else ever come forward from authorized representatives? (No) Is anyone answering from the MPs? (Yes) I have three reports. The word is Goran Vukadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26190	Thank you. The honourable presidents of the Assembly, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, given that the elections for judges in courts of general and special jurisdiction are in progress, it is important to look at them in the context of the judicial reform that was and remains the important priority of the Republic of Serbia. What this reform should result in is also the objectives set out in the national justice reform strategy for the period from 2013-2018, which is to improve the quality and efficiency of justice, strengthen judicial independence and accountability in order to strengthen the rule of law, democracy, legal certainty and bring justice closer to citizens and restore trust in the justice system. The joint operation of all relevant judicial reform actors in the Republic of Serbia of the National Assembly, Government, ministries, High Council of the judiciary, Supreme Cassation Court, courts, etc. can lead to the successful achievement of these reform objectives. It is clear that an important step towards this is the quality and consistent implementation of the law envisaged by the selection procedure of judges and that the highest responsibility for the selection of judges is borne by the High Council of the judiciary and the National Assembly, because it is invaluable to choose carefully among the candidates reported, candidates who, by their qualifications and abilities, by their work and performance, will be a reflection of dignity, expertise and training. For the economically weakened country, as it was in 2009, one failed reform of the judiciary behind us is exhausting. As a result of a reform of the judicial network, carried out at the time, through the abolition or replacement of judicial units, the number of courts has been drastically reduced, and with the general re-election of judges and public prosecutors, their number has been reduced by about a thousand. Time has shown that such an organisation has not led to greater efficiency of the judiciary, since it has taken a long period of time to adapt to new conditions of work for the holders of judicial functions, as well as to the judicial staff. The number of cases left behind has not been reduced, since only the number of judges and not the inflow of cases has been reduced above all, so on average one judge has between 700 and thousands of court cases. The duration of the proceedings has not been reduced, as it depends on a number of factors which could not be affected by the reform, nor have the budget expenditure been reduced, since we have witnessed paradoxical situations that judges from the court's seat also travel to the trial of official vehicles in the judicial unit from which judges from the judicial unit went to court to hold the trial. The unconstitutional decision on re-election of judges has led to a large number of judicial proceedings for compensation of material and immaterial damages, while judges who were re-elected have worked large numbers of cases, and have had a constant challenge in choosing between the quantity and quality of work, often leading to significant violations of procedures and frequent suspensions of decisions, and the quality has resulted in insufficient control of the inflow of cases. Now we have a chance to get things back on track in the coming period. In courts, the ratio of the candidates to the number of advertised judges to the election is extremely disproportionate. For example, in the primary court in Leskovac, the city from which I come, the election of five judges has been announced, and in that court alone, 19 judicial assistants who meet the general and probably other conditions for the choice of judge provided for by the Law on Judges, so that the number of candidates registered will far exceed the number of advertised seats for the selection of judges, if candidates from other courts and other cities who have been waiting for their choice since 2009. The fact that 100 or more candidates are registered in five or 10 advertising places is a transparent indication that we have a great choice in front of us and that the Republic of Serbia has an extraordinary capacity to reform and improve the judiciary. The best ones should be selected among the candidates reported, as all investments in the judicial system are illusory if human resources are not at an enviable level. In the EU accession negotiations process, Chapter 23 insists on ensuring the impartiality of integrity and high standard of judicial judgments, which is considered necessary for the preservation of the rule of law, which requires a strong commitment to remove external influences on the judiciary and provide adequate financial resources and training, as well as legal guarantees for fair judicial proceedings. The choice of judges is the first step towards creating a stable and effective judiciary, which will meet high standards set by the EU. With this in mind, and since we are presented with qualifications, expertise and training of candidates, Maja Vadnjal, I support the proposal for her election as Judge of the Criminal Court of Appeal, of course, as well as my MP group of SNS. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26191	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary, I will support your proposal to be the judge of the Court of Appeal. So, just because I said this, in a way, I resented my colleague, Veselinovic, who didn't tell us at all who was choosing, no function, he was already telling a story of his own. I carefully searched the criteria on the basis of which the lady was proposed to elect the Court of Appeal and I found that Professor Janko Veselinovic did not teach her the right and therefore fulfils all the criteria for selecting the judge. If he was teaching her the law by chance, then I'd have thought about whether the choice was right. Since the candidate has not fully met the requirements of some of my standards. I believe that the elected judge will respect justice and justice, that he will bring judgments, not only to commit crimes and crime, but also to prevent them, because the purpose of the verdict is not only punishment, but also to prevent crimes and crimes. So I believe that the lady, who has also served as deputy prosecutor, will fully do what is expected of her and will do her job with honor and honesty, which cannot be said to have happened in some previous period, which I hope will be far behind us. I would not want, no matter who is in office, to be amnested to this candidate, no matter what function he performs, that we no longer become out of date of our application, criminal charges, as they have become obsolete against Goran Jesic, so that some judge keeps it in the drawer and then declares that the case will no longer be conducted. So I want the candidate chosen today to judge neither by his grandmother nor by his uncles, but by the justice of the true God. I believe that this candidate, when we choose him, will do his job with honor and integrity. I believe that the judgments will be just, carefully measured, that it will not happen that Vladimir Jesic's left-over folder, her pain suffered by that folder, costs a million and a half dinars, and that is the way to judge. In the case of a damaged folder by Vladimir Jesic, the damage would be a million and a half dinars, and, let's say, one life worth 400,000 dinars in Kosovo. Thanks to these verdicts, we are witnessing today that such violent acts by Vladimir Jesic and his brother are being repeated. I believe that the candidate we choose today will not make such judgments, no matter what function or party it is. With that in mind, I would like to congratulate the candidate and wish him to perform his post the same way she was elected, and was elected in a fair, fair, announced competition with the commission and with the High Council, which the judges had chosen earlier. So I believe in their assessment and it's our only option to confirm the choice of a judge who's been elected for the first time. I congratulate one more candidate, and I want him to make his judgments based on criteria that she's already learned as a professional, and I've just repeated them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26193	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision, in general. Thank you. I'm asking Minister Ljajic to enter the O.R. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called on the current session to be attended by Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Communications, Stevan Nikcevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Bojana Todorovic, Assistant Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Jelena Marjanović, Assistant Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Dr Renata Pinjo, Assistant Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Jasmina Roskić, Head of Department of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Slavica Višnić, Head of the Department of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and Daniela Vicentijevic, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. I welcome Mr. Secretary. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals of points 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint and uniform search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours. As well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on Encouragement of Investment Protection, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia in Economic, Scientific and Technical Cooperation, Proposal for a Law on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on Tourism and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of the Minister of Ukraine on Co-operation in the field of tourism. Does the proposal representative Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications want a word? Yeah. ) Please, the word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26194	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as you can see before you, are four identifications, or ratification agreements. Let me say very briefly about each of these four laws on confirming agreements that are on the agenda today. The first law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Armenia on economic, scientific and technical co-operation is one general roof agreement signed at the end of last year that contains areas of possible co-operation between the two countries. The agreement also envisions the establishment of a mixed commission for economic co-operation between Armenia that should define the priorities of co-operation between the two countries and that you solve the ongoing problems that exist in the co-operation, i.e. to remove possible recommendations. Of course, co-operation between Serbia and Armenia is almost negligible in economic and trade terms. One of the reasons why such small co-operation, i.e. the volume of trade in goods, is the fact that we have not so far had contractual legal regulations, which is why we ratify this agreement. Geographical distance is the second element that makes this collaboration at such a high level. The third reason why this agreement is important is that we ratify it, and now we ratify it is that since 1 January Armenia has become part of the customs union of Russia and Belarus and Kazakhstan and that we will have to have a new regime of trade relations with this country and this is a good introduction, i.e. the basis for the conclusion of such an agreement and with Armenia. I've already said that the volume of trade is negligiblely small, only $1.8 million, of which our exports are 1.7 million, mostly exporting drugs and cigarettes. I hope that after this agreement, after we also sign an agreement that is in the phase of agreeing on incentives and protecting investments, the volume of trade between the two countries will be significantly greater than it has been so far. The second agreement that we are ratifying today is the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on incentive and protection of investment. This is a basic agreement in this area that represents the best way to attract foreign investment, which is a signal that the country is safe and safe for investors and investors. Serbia has so far signed 52 agreements, with 52 countries. The basis for the conclusion of these agreements is one type of agreement that was adopted in September of last year. Unlike these type agreements, which form the basis for negotiating the conclusion of such agreements, this is the first agreement that is not concluded on the basis of this type agreement and this type agreement is the model used in the ECD. This is an agreement used mainly by Canada, the United States and Australia as the basis for the conclusion of such agreements. It is a model that represents a mix between free trade agreements and classical bilateral and investment agreements. It was the basis on which we concluded this kind of agreement and as you had the opportunity to see, it contains five parts, four annexes. The key is to ensure, guarantee foreign investors security, security for their investments, regulate the relationship between investors and the state receiving these investments, regulate and resolve possible disputes between the two parties, more specifically investors and the state in which these funds are invested. The agreement was signed in September 2014 after long negotiations that lasted more than a year, precisely because of the type model of the agreement. For the first time, we face this kind of agreement that we conclude with a single country based on their type agreement. Also, Canada is an important potential investor for us, currently there are 50 companies in Serbia that come from Canada. Of these, the largest number of 13 are companies dealing with mining research that have invested over $125m so far. With this agreement, we complete contractual legal regulation when we talk about economic co-operation with Canada. Prior to that, the Agreement on the avoidance of Double Taxation, the Agreement on Economic and Strategic Co-operation, as well as the Social Security Agreement, or on Insurance, has been concluded. We have thus largely created an excellent legal basis for future economic co-operation and all kinds of co-operation, not only of trade, but of investment. As far as the other two agreements are concerned, it is more or less a matter of type agreements, hence the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine in co-operation in the field of tourism and the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on co-operation in the field of tourism. Less or less two similar agreements that we have with other countries with the aim of fostering co-operation in this area. For us, it is particularly important that this co-operation in the area of tourism with Ukraine, given the size of the market, that Belgrade be seen as an important transit centre among Ukrainian tourists and agencies in Ukraine, the truth, for resorts in Greece, Croatia and Montenegro, but as an important tourist destination for Ukrainian tourists. They are also particularly interested in our mountains, monasteries and banana spas. We believe that these two agreements, especially the one with Ukraine, will boost co-operation in the field of tourism and attract far more tourists to these two countries than ever before.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26195	I thank you, Mr. Ljajic. Do any of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or the heads of parliament want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Kotriæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, fellow Members of Mr. Ljajic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the day for the vote of Parliament and MPs of the SPO and DHSS Group, will vote to confirm the agreement, and I would like to explain why. I will speak first of all about the Agreement on Economic and Technical and Scientific Co-operation with Armenia. Given that I am also the president of a parliamentary group of friendships with this country, I would say something more about the importance of this agreement, because it will allow the development of an area of economic, scientific and technical co-operation between our two countries, to create a legal basis for the establishment of an intergovernmental committee to monitor this co-operation, to improve it, and to remove obstacles that could arise during this co-operation. There are traditionally good relations between Serbia and Armenia, but as in September of last year, when we meet with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Armenia, Mr Eduard Malbandian, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, binds us with this friendship, but unfortunately there is also this traditional neglect towards friends, and this is reflected in the fact that we do not have our diplomatic representation in Armenia, that our embassy in Kiev is in charge of the country, and that Armenia does not have its own embassy in Belgrade, that it covers our country from Athens and that it is very much in line with the development of relations between our countries. Furthermore, there is also a problem with the existence of visas, with something easier to obtain Armenian visas. In fact, when our citizens travel to the country, they can at the border crossings get a visa that doesn't cost much - six euros. But, on the other hand, when Armenians want to travel to Serbia, then it's more complicated and then they wait for that visa for at least 10 days and it's received either in Moscow at our embassy or in Tehran. You don't have to say how far these cities are from Armenia. The problem in communication is the lack of a direct plane line between Belgrade and Yerevan, which is why it travels either through Vienna or through Moscow. What's good is that there are honorable consulates. So in our country there is the Honorary Consulate of Armenia, headed by Mr. Predrag Tomic, and our country has an honorary consulate in Yerevan. On her forehead is a well-known writer, scientist and translator, Mr. Babken Simonjan, a great friend of our country who translated a large number of literary and scientific works from Serbian into Armenian. Let me mention, besides, he also translated the Mountain Wreath. Of course, we hope the promises of the two foreign ministers will come true, that they will join the opening of diplomatic representations in the ranking of the embassy between the two countries, which would improve relations. When Prime Minister Vukic also received a Armenian foreign minister last autumn, the Prime Minister concluded that there are many opportunities for development of co-operation, especially in the fields of science, medicine and economy, and that visa relief should be considered in order to encourage tourism and economic exchange above all. Indeed, as Minister Ljajic said, economic relations do not follow the level of traditionally good friendly and political relations. It is very modest that the volume of economic exchange, although it has the opportunity for Serbia, for example, to export medicines, to develop this co-operation in the areas of agriculture, and in particular to export our seed corn. We Armenia can also offer joint investments. What Armenia can offer us, they have very high quality dried fruit, southern fruit, quality wine, grapes. They can also offer us in the field of metallurgy gold, copper, molybdenum. They're usually the world's largest producers of this last metal. There is also a chance in the development of tourism. Otherwise, there are several of our companies operating in Armenia and about 30 of our citizens live in this country. So far, a double taxation convention has been signed. A business forum has recently been held that brought together Serbian and Armenian entrepreneurs, senior officials to improve the potential of economic co-operation. A mutual protection and investment agreement has also been signed. As I said, I am headed by a parliamentary group of friendships with Armenia, and that is also the way and form of co-operation between parliaments and even between our countries. As Minister Ljajic said, since 1 January of this year, Armenia has been a member of the Eurasian Economic Community, led by Russia, but this does not mean that Armenia is exclusively oriented to co-operation within the alliance. The country's intention is to improve and deepen economic co-operation with the countries that make up this alliance, but it is not limited to that kind of regional co-operation, but their desire is to participate in different formats of bilateral partnerships and regional and European associations and integration. What's interesting is that Armenia has a very large diaspora. It's a country that has about three million inhabitants, and it just seems amazing that even 7.5 million Armenians live outside the country, mostly in Russia, the United States, and several thousand Armenians live in Serbia. They are very attached to their country and say that in the light of the signs they send to Armenia so much money that it surpasses the overall national budget of Armenia. As for the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of tourism with Georgia, I would only say something about a contractual legal base that exists between Serbia and Georgia, that it is also very modest and that it is necessary to step up the work to complete the legal basis for co-operation. So far, only three interstate agreements have been signed between Serbia and Georgia, which are a co-operation agreement on mutual assistance in customs matters, a double taxation avoidance agreement and now the agreement we ratify, the Agreement on co-operation in the field of tourism. In addition, a Protocol on Co-operation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia has been signed, but it has not been ratified either. Otherwise, the Serbian government has authorised our foreign ministry to sign it, because we are interested in developing co-operation with Georgia primarily when it comes to trade-economic co-operation. As far as I'm aware, our party has prepared a draft agreement that should be directed to the Georgian side. Then, we are interested in a mutual incentive and investment protection agreement. Also, our side is ready to deliver the draft of this agreement to Georgian. What is significant is, if the Georgian side shows an interest in establishing air traffic, we are ready to regulate obligations in the area of air traffic at bilateral level and to accept such an initiative, to initiate a procedure to conclude an interstate agreement. On the other hand, Georgia is interested in concluding a mutual administrative assistance agreement, tax co-operation. As I said about relations with Armenia, unfortunately, our country does not have its own embassy in Tbilisi and we have therefore defined another obstacle in this co-operation, which is the existence of a visa. Now, there's a paradoxical situation here, which is that the owners of ordinary passports, the citizens, who travel to Georgia, don't need a visa to enter that country, and they can stay for 365 days. However, no agreement has yet been ratified between Serbia and Georgia on visa waivers on diplomatic and official passports for up to 90 days, though it was delivered to the Georgian side. During a recent visit to the delegation of the Serbian Parliament, Georgia, or Tbilisi, we were forced to show civil passports, as we would not have to receive a Georgian visa. It's usually the other way around. Usually, owners of official and diplomatic passports are easier to enter into the territory of a country, they do not need a visa, and in this case it is the other way around. So it takes a visa just for those who own diplomatic and official passports. As far as economic relations are concerned, this co-operation does not meet the potential, the needs of the two countries. Although there is a great opportunity to improve co-operation in the field of metallurgy, textile, food industry, construction, tourism, to liberalise trade and to improve economic co-operation, and the exchange is, for example, quite modest, for example, in 2014 was 12m euros, with the positive fact that our exports were ninem euros and imports of about three million euros. Just a few more sentences about what the minister specifically said and what is significant is that an agreement on encouraging and protecting investments with Canada is signed, that this agreement represents a continuation of Serbia and Canada's excellent economic co-operation, that this is a new step in creating a fully legal environment for improving the economic, economic and trade relations of the two countries, that this agreement sends a very clear message to Canadian investors, that Serbia respects international legal standards in the area of investor rights and that it is safe for all sides, as well as for Canadian investments. As the minister said, it is a very positive fact that 50 Canadian companies are operating in our country, that 13 are doing geological research, that a total of 126 licenses that Serbia has issued for different types of research, that even 80% have received Canadian companies and that they have so far invested $125m in research, that we expect this to increase in the coming period. When Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic received a farewell visit from outgoing Ambassador to Canada, it was noted that Canadian investments in Serbia so far are about a billion dollars and that Canada is a significant trading partner in Serbia. Therefore, some other agreements have been signed that allow for the development of this co-operation. The minister mentioned an agreement on strategic economic co-operation. First of all, it concerns co-operation in the fields of energy, mining, industry, infrastructure, agriculture and the food sector. What is good is that, as of 1 January last year, the Agreement on the avoidance of double taxation between Serbia and Canada entered into force, and since 1 December of last year, and the Social Insurance Agreement, which is also important for our diaspora, which is numerous in Canada, as well as for all future Canadian companies and to say that it is estimated that nearly 300,000 citizens of our origin live in Canada, that they are also interested in economic co-operation with our country and that they are an important factor in intervening, in the conclusion of these agreements and in attracting Canadian investments, and many are the owners of businesses themselves that invest in Serbia. I will conclude that this agreement represents a really strong message to the business community in Canada more engaged in Serbia, which will mean new firms, which will lead to the creation of new jobs in Serbia, economic growth and development. For the very end, as regards the agreement between our country and Ukraine in co-operation in the field of tourism, it was signed in 2013. Unfortunately, in the meantime, there have been some unpleasant, crisis and war situations in Ukraine that may affect the reduction of the travel of Serbian citizens to Ukraine and the Ukrainians in our country and that we only wish that this agreement would still be applied by respecting the peace agreement concerning Ukraine and that our two friendly countries will develop co-operation in the area of tourism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26197	Thank you, Mr. Chotric. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26198	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Minister Ljajic, at the beginning of two things I want to give as a message to me, as a People's MP, because we are all Members of Parliament's groups here, but in any case, we must have our own personal position. So, my position, but also the parliamentary groups, is that they will support these four agreements because they are opening up the possibility of Serbia's state of co-operation in some areas for which no possibility has been created so far. The second message to you and the request is to leave this government because I believe that your integrity, your reputation, your quality goes beyond this government. As I have invited the other ministers to resign, I invite you to leave this poor, catastrophic government, Mr. Ljajic. On the other hand, I'll say a few words about these agreements. My colleague, Jotric, spoke about the importance of some of these agreements. In particular, he referred to the Agreement to encourage and protect the investments of the Republic of Serbia and Canada. Of course, Canada is one powerful country, a powerful economy, with good forecasts for the next period, unfortunately, compared to ours, which are the worst forecasts in Europe and according to the latest data, the only country with recession, but there should be conditions for some better government and some better situation that will be able to exploit the potential of this agreement, Mr. Ljajic. The fact is it is difficult to expect that there is some imaginary reciprocity between the two incomparable economies, Canadian and Serbian. It is difficult to expect more significant foreign investment by domestic companies in Canada. That's where we'll agree, Mr. Ljajic. But why not expect that in some future period when another government comes in which you may again be you, but who will be able to use the potential of this agreement and which will be able to attract investors from Canada, because in this agreement there are a lot of quality, correct provisions that create equal chances and investors from Canada to Serbia and investors from Serbia in Canada, which put them, in a way, in the position of domestic legal entities, in a way, not quite entirely. The fact is also what Mr. Cotric said, that in Canada there is a large Serb community of 300,000 Serbs and representatives of other nationalities who left Serbia in difficult times, most often between the 1990s and 2000s, unfortunately and over the last year, is an increasing requirement for visas in Canada. I'll give you an example of a village in Vojvodina. Russian Krstur, I spoke with distinguished colleague Olena Papug, who lives in the village, once had 5,000 inhabitants, today has 500 inhabitants less, 10%, the largest number of Russians moved to Canada. From 2010 to 2012, there was almost a halt in eviction in 2013, not only because there was a perspective in Serbia, but among other things, as pensions, wages grew, the state of Serbia had some hope. For the past four months, 80 Russian Christur families have requested an eviction visa to Canada. It's a worrying piece of information, Mr. Ljajic, you can check it out. So, I'm afraid this community of Serbian citizens in Canada will be growing more and more. Perhaps some of them will want to invest in Serbia when the state of Serbia is arranged and maybe this agreement will help them. That's why we support this deal with Canada. On the other hand, perhaps when the state of Serbia becomes a regulated rule of law, with the rule of law, it will wish to return to Serbia and maybe invest some funds in private business, when the finance and business ministry is not suffocating a small economy, but when it creates conditions for foreign investment. Unfortunately, you also know that the growing number of closed businesses is operators, and the growing number of open businesses. In that sense, more agreements like this are certainly needed. It doesn't matter what agreements were prepared during a previous period, and now they are realised, it's the continuity of foreign policy. Unfortunately, who is not currently in Serbia, or we have two foreign policies, I will talk about it in the second international contract, but we will support this agreement with Canada. Of course, Ministers mean, if you have agreements, you should have ambassadors in those countries. The state of Serbia does not have 10% ambassadors at the moment, so to the total number of ambassadors in the countries where we have embassies. Ten per cent of ambassadors, including ambassadors to Germany, neighbouring Croatia, etc. Until recently in the U.S., you believe me, I don't even know what the state of Canada is, you know that better. I know there's been some changes in ambassadorial places there, too. I suppose there, given the circumstances, it is possible that Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Vukic agreed on this place as ambassador and that we have ambassadors there and that someone would be able to put this agreement into effect. The second agreement I would like to say is a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine in co-operation in the field of tourism. And this is a very significant contract. Of course, it is important to develop bilateral relations with Ukraine and in the field of tourism. There are several very important provisions here that concern some rules that should respect Serbia and Ukraine's tourism organisations, when sending guests to another country, and said in Article 4, "The parties will take the necessary measures to ensure the safety of tourists travelling to their country, from another country," the site, largely, is referring to the state of Ukraine and Serbia, "in line with international standards". It is certainly important that the citizens of Serbia or the citizens of Ukraine have the opportunity to know when they travel to another country, whether in that town, the territory is safe. Minister, I have one question for you, I'm not sure how much it really is in your domain, it concerns more foreign policy, but do we conclude this agreement with Ukraine, Ukraine, with Crimea and these independent areas, or do we end it with Ukraine without Crimea and without these areas? So, does this contract conclude Serbia with or without Kosovo and Metohija? Because, probably, if you ask Mr. Vukic who we're closing with -- we're closing with the entire Ukraine, along with Crimea and these areas, if you ask Mr. Nikolic, probably Ukraine, without these areas. We have two foreign policies, it's quite clear, but I ask you, just so that the tourist organisations, when they travel, know when they send tourists to Crimea, whether they're talking to a tourist organization in Kiev or a tourist organization in Crimea, or some Donjek, etc. that they know who they're working with. Believe me, it's very important to them. Even some MPs traveled to those parts. I don't know, without this agreement how they checked their personal safety and whether they had recommendations from tourist organizations when they went there. They said for tourist purposes and said in a personal arrangement, so they didn't send from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so perhaps their experiences would be very interesting for tourist organisations, above all, as some personal experience when you travel to Doneck, how to behave, what to take with you, what papers, which they pass, whether you need a visa, whether you don't need a visa, what kind of a tourist map of that area. I've heard quite a bit, in that landscape sense, it's a very nice area of Crimea. So, what are the recommendations of tourist organisations in this regard and where these recommendations will be found, Mr. Minister? So, are you going to get some instructions from the Foreign Ministry or are you going to stand that way, so how do you estimate it? I don't think that's good. I suppose more MPs after this agreement will want to visit the region from the same parliamentary group, possibly going organised. They would do well to know which agency to turn to, or which tourism organization, therefore, these independent areas or authorities in Kiev. Also, I suppose tourism organisations from Kiev and Donetsk will want to tour the monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija to know if they address Kosovo authorities with a star or Kosovo and Metohija as an AP within the Republic of Serbia. It would certainly be, Mr. Minister, at the beginning of this word I invited you to leave this poor government, but I would like you to clarify some things first and leave behind a clean situation. To tell the authorities in Kiev the tourism organisation will address the Serbian tourism organisation for a tour of the monastery, the Pećke Patriarchy, everything there is, a lot of things that are pictured by Orthodoxism, which is a picture of other religions. There are lots of nice churches, mosques and so on, so they know where to turn for these tours. So, did Ukraine consider Serbia a single state and when this contract, when you spoke to your colleagues, did you and those small details, did you take care of them. Well, Minister, if you don't answer all these questions, I won't blame you because I know you're in an awkward position. Some are in the domain of the president of the state, some in the domain of the foreign minister, some in the domain of the Prime Minister, that is, all issues in his domain, because he himself said he was responsible for everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26199	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26200	As you have heard more than once from all state officials and there is no difference, Serbia fully supports Ukraine's territorial integrity, and we, as well as other agreements, sign with Ukraine as an international legal entity and not only this agreement. We, though before the armed conflicts, started negotiations with Ukraine on the conclusion of a free trade agreement and we will continue the talks. They are easy, since Ukraine is looking for an almost identical agreement that we have with the Russian Federation which does not suit us, given the complementarity, much more complementarity of our economy with Ukraine than with Russia, and we are looking for an asymmetric form in this agreement, namely to protect some agricultural products, five basic agricultural products, that the same Ukraine does, they are looking for an entirely identical agreement with the Russian Federation. So we respect Ukraine's integrity and continue to develop the best possible, above all, economic relations with that country by respecting its territorial integrity. As for Kosovo, Ukraine did not recognise Kosovo and tourism organisations from Ukraine would hypothetically address our tourism organisations for visiting the monasteries in Kosovo, and I am not just telling you theoretically now, but it has also happened in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26201	Thank you, Mr. Ljajic. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26202	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Ljajic, co-workers at the Ministry. I have a few specific questions, and in the meantime, while you're thinking about leaving the government, it would be good to do some useful things together, especially for tourism that matters to me. We'll support the ministers all agreements on the agenda. I would refer to two agreements in the field of tourism with Ukraine and Georgia. They are good, because they in one bureaucratic way strengthen the co-operation of our countries and it is good to come to some concrete values in further development and further co-operation. That's why we'll support them. He is an important member of 5th with an agreement with Ukraine, which says the parties will encourage and support developmental statistical and other information in the field of tourism, including regulations that regulate tourism activity in both countries, the tourism resources of their countries, scientific research in the field of tourism, international documents that can concern other countries, information and advertising materials. Anyone who deals with tourism, or who deals with tourism planning and development, I especially think about the ministry, knows how important these things are for further planning the development of tourism in their country and what we are now coming up with is the planning of tourism development. I'm very closely following your statements, as someone who is truly in charge of the development of tourism. Personally, I come from Sokobanje, which is very important to me personally, and at the end of last year you made a statement and announced that by the end of the year a new development strategy for tourism will be completed. Contentfully, that draft, or that strategy that was adopted in 2006, has expired, and it is important that we get answers as far as we can, what analyses of the nine-year strategy that has now expired, where we have sinned in comparative advantages because it is the fact that Serbia is still not on the international European tourist map. You also said that by the end, i.e. in the first quarter of 2015, the Assembly should adopt amendments and amendments to the Tourism Act. It's been three months, so we'd better get some answers as far as you're concerned about planning further changes and additions. Yes, the Tourism Act is mature for certain changes. It is good to discuss this in Parliament, of course, before and at certain public debates. I believe that we will have a lot to say, I believe, and that the professional public has something to add in terms of improving the laws in the field of tourism. You also said that a particular campaign, along with a tourism organisation of Serbia, will be launched at the meeting of states, in the promotion of Serbia in diaspora representations. It's important to hear if this campaign has started, what our predictions are, which is actually the goal, and whether it has certain effects after two years, if we have started. Unless we did, why didn't we start such a campaign? That's important. It is important for ministers to have concrete actions of the Ministry, the tourism organisation behind your words, and it is important that there is this coherence in the statements and actions you take. Why am I saying this? So this year, this government started with statements that were not so coherent, and I especially speak to those who started with statements in terms of privatization of the spa, which Mr Sertic gave. He spoke, we started with statements that we were opening the privatization of the spa, then the next statement was – no, we're not privatizing those who are in the dispute, I mean rehabilitation centres, to special hospitals, and seven out of 14 were in a dispute with the PIO Fund. The statements were not coherent either in the process, i.e. the process of further development of tourism, and it is important that we get answers to these questions. Why am I saying this? When you do a parallel analysis, you will see that when Slovenia changed its own, ownership structure of spas and special hospitals, the entire state was on its feet. They understood the chance. Today, the municipalities in Slovenia are the most developed municipalities in Slovenia. 13% of GDP produces tourism in Slovenia. We have 1.8 or 1.9, and the potentials are even higher. The Czech Republic had an entire development strategy for privatisation and investment in tourism development. Well, that's important information, and it's important that we get some information in one dialogue. People are waiting for answers, tourist MPs and those who deal with tourism. It is important for my Soko - spa too, for we live on tourism and agriculture. These are two actions that develop our municipalities. The potentials are huge, but the capacity of the municipalities isn't to the extent they're supposed to be. Your job is to develop capacities and local self-government, to invest in infrastructure. It's not the job of the state, nor yours, to build and manage hotels and to deal with tourism. It's yours to create an atmosphere for people who can live off tourism. That's why it's important that we get these answers from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26203	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Rasim Ljajic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26204	Thank you for your questions and suggestions, and unfortunately I could agree with most of the things you mentioned here. Therefore, what are the analyses of the strategy which was carried out in 2005, i.e. from 2006 to 2015. Very small effects for two reasons. The first thing that this strategy was done very pretentiously was a list of wishes or letters about intentions to be done, rather than the real circumstances in which the strategy was to be implemented. Another reason is the global economic crisis, so two key reasons. I could point out yet, that tourism has not been given the importance it has in every country with significant potentials such as Serbia. Tourism was somewhere on the periphery when we talk about business branches. There are no clear priorities defined in what and where to invest to fully realise these potentials. Therefore, this strategy is well done but not much has been done about this strategy. That's our reality. We are now in the final phase of making a new strategy. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, so it's true, I said it'll be in the first trimester. We're going to be late for a month and with amendments to the law and with a strategy, because we didn't want to, at the cost of being late, have a document that will have the same fate as this previous document. We wanted to come up with a strategy that will be very short, which will include 12 to 15 tourism priorities in Serbia worth investing in, investing and encouraging foreign investors and investors, rather than shooting at the sky and expecting every municipality in Serbia to be a tourist paradise. It's just not possible. Neither is it good nor the country can thus develop its tourism. We have over 120 local tourism organizations today, and I believe that you know the same thing, of which you may have twenty municipalities or cities that could develop their tourism more seriously and that tourist organisations serve to encourage party staffs for which you do not know where you are going, and then place them in tourism. We have a situation so that someone doesn't take offense, that the marbles are the presidents of local tourist organizations. This is a situation that has been inherited, so we are now changing the law, tightening the conditions for both local tourism organisations and for regional and national tourism organisations. So once again, I apologize for being late in a month, when I talk about amendments to the law and when I talk about strategy. I said what was the reason for the strategy. We weren't happy with the first document we got. We've extended the public debate, we've wanted to hear everything, because it's a document that's been brought in for the next ten years. It would be too much of a luxury for us to adopt a formal document, and that we ourselves are dissatisfied with the document, and that it is particularly poorly assessed by the professional public. As far as the law is concerned, so we agreed less with both the professional public and the economy most of the text. There's one thing we've been late for these months, and it's organizing excursions and trips. So far, they have had the right to do both trade unions and February organisations, in the same way as tourist agencies. In the original version of the law, it was excluded and the possibility of these organizations being able to do so for up to three days was left. Then we had protests from these organizations, now we came to a compromise solution that they could organise it, but under very strict conditions, to announce these trips to ensure the safety of passengers. As for the campaign, the campaign began at the Meeting, intended for the diaspora, called "My Serbia". The aim of the campaign is double, to animate the diaspora that during, especially the summer months and during winter, tourist centres in Serbia, and again use the diaspora as ambassadors to animated tourists in countries where they live, live, to also visit Serbia. That campaign's gonna take a year. There is usually a Tourist Organisation of Serbia and a whole series of activities has been planned, primarily in our diplomatic consular offices. To be fully open, we were going to start the campaign at the Meeting, counting that diplomatic consular offices would host receptions, which otherwise seem to be about Statehood Day. Since there was no money this year, these receptions weren't organised, so there was no formal start of that campaign, because it started, really from February of the month and it's going to last all year. As for the privatisation of the spa, it's wound cancer and perhaps the hardest thing we're going to face in this area. A whole series of paradoxes, we can't develop Banish tourism, health tourism until we solve the status of the spa. To be perfectly clear, without privatising the spa, it is impossible in any way to boost investment neither domestic nor foreign investment. You mentioned this case that out of 14 bathrooms, seven are in dispute, one state authority sues another state body when we talk about ownership. No one will invest in any spa, as long as there is a state that owns a rehab centre and provides, too, catering services. It's completely unhealthy, unfair competition. We have to get rid of the spa property by most of these spas privatizing. I don't think the Slovenians did a good thing, when they turned all the spas into spas, I think now they're correcting some mistakes from that model and if they made a boom in the first phase, but they're already seeing the weaknesses of a model like that. I think we can make one model that's between what the Hungarians did and what the Slovenes did, but everything else is an illusion. Believe me, we can also write in the strategy anything, unless the spas are privatized, unless fresh capital enters, the state doesn't have that capital to invest in, nor should you, as you said. It is very clear to distinguish what is the obligation of the state in all of this and what is the obligation of the private sector. It is absolutely true that the state should provide adequate infrastructure, everything else should be on private initiative, private investment and private investment. Without it, banish tourism will remain only potential. We have over a thousand thermal sources that have no states in Europe, but we can only figure that out unless there's fresh money, crafts that will turn that capital into something concrete.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26205	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26206	Thank you, Mr. Becic. We agreed on most of the questions. I have no dilemma at all that you will do well with the proposal and the draft strategy. It is important that in one dialogue you have understanding of the opposition's views, which I have no doubt in the Ministry at this time. I was a few years ago and president of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, and I worked with your associates that you are working with today, I understand and I know their capacities, but once again I call on you, it is important that we reach certain solutions in the dialogue both in the strategy and in the law. It is true, I cited Slovenia as an example. Why? Because they have entered the process of modernization. We entered the process of modernising the spa into the new Law on Privatisation, but with the 1992 Banje Act. It's something I also want to mention, and it's important that we also start talking about the new law on spas, because there was no power to talk about so far. I, I mean, a month ago, I referred you a question, a parliamentary question, you answered, I am grateful, I invited you to participate more actively in certain processes concerning the development of local self-government in the field of tourism. In fact, it comes down to the fact that in the last 15 years, we've been changing the ownership structure of, say, big hotels and we've come to translate certain social hotels into state hotels and then we stop there. We agree that the state is a bad owner and that it should not be engaged in tourism, it should create an atmosphere to build infrastructure. However, they do not have local self-government capacity to put on the feet of those complexes that are tourism operators in certain local self-governments. It's not possible for the municipality to do this on its own. So we invite you once again to engage and help local self-government stand on your feet, those complexes that are the tourism operators in certain municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26207	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26208	When you reminded me about local self-government, we called a public call about a month ago for projects in the area of development of tourism infrastructure at a local level. Believe me, we have a problem selecting real projects that will really contribute to the development of tourism not only at the place, but also at the central level. I'll show you what doesn't come as a request and as a suggestion. We have a request that it is important for the tourist development of the city to build a public toilet and for this money is wanted. So we have 450 million dinars, which isn't big funds for these projects. So far, I mean, we've approved two projects. We have a problem with finding real projects, identifying them as important for the development of tourism in the local, regional and country-wide regions, so I'm using the opportunity to invite all municipalities to compete with projects, not to get some money that you'll use for the campaign, okay, that's a legitimate thing, but put at least those funds into something that will actually create some value, which will really attract some tourists, and not make some picture that might look good on the outside, and basically no use at all. So once again, we call on all local self-governments to submit projects, that we want to distribute these few resources at our disposal in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26209	Thank you, Mr. Ljajic. The word has a folk MP Stefana Miladanovic, as an authorised representative of the SPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26210	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected ministry associates, fellow MPs, are now ahead of us four bilateral agreements that the National Assembly should ratify and these four agreements, as well as a number of so far ratified agreements, contribute to the consolidation of Serbia's international political and economic position. Bilateral business co-operation with many countries in the world confirms a high level of interest in Serbia, as a desirable destination for investment and foreign trade. In this regard, we consider very important agreements between the Republic of Serbia and Canada to encourage and protect investments and agreements with Armenia on economic, scientific and technical co-operation. The Republic of Serbia with Canada and Armenia has very good diplomatic relations and decades of co-operation. This co-operation has so far been confirmed by the signing of several agreements between these countries. With Canada, we have ratified social security agreements, legal aid in criminal matters, readmission, as well as many others. On the other hand, with Armenia, we also have more ratified agreements, such as a double taxation avoidance agreement, legal assistance in criminal matters and others. The agreements we are talking about today are another confirmation of the implementation of good bilateral agreements with Canada, or Armenia. The agreement with Canada on encouraging and protecting investment is seen as an additional impulse of good economic co-operation between our two countries. It has already been said several times today that more than 50 Canadian companies are operating in Serbia and mainly in the field of mining and mining-geological research. The interest of Canadian partners continues to grow, encouraging the mining, energy, infrastructure, agriculture and food sectors. Canada is known to be one of the G8 members and one of the biggest forces in the case of goods transport, which can be of great importance to Serbia. Canada and Serbia as two friendly countries also connect the country's large Serb community. According to some estimates, it counts between 150,000 and 170,000 citizens. Among them are a large number of prominent and recognised businessmen and owners of large companies. As Canadian Embassy Roman Bashuk once said, everyone here has someone who has someone in Canada. These human relationships are precious links between our countries. The basis of Serbia and Canada's economic co-operation is certainly the Strategic, Economic Co-operation Agreement signed by our two countries in 2012, which established all areas of bilateral co-operation. The agreement on protecting and encouraging investment will allow Canadian companies, which want to invest in our economy, the status of the most privileged nation, full protection and security of their investments. This is important above all, because Canadian companies want long-term investment and business in Serbia, and not only in principle come, go and get it, as has been the case with some foreign companies from other countries over the past decades. The agreement that we need to ratify guarantees also legal protection of investments in accordance with domestic legislation, but also in accordance with international law in this area, as well as with the provisions of the Washington Convention on the Resolution of Investment Disputes between States and nationals of other countries, which are signatories and the Republic of Serbia. The agreement is a guarantee of the security of stimulating conditions for Canadian investment, as well as of the safe and stable business of Canadian companies in our country. As for the second agreement, which also promotes bilateral co-operation and confirms the two countries' traditional good relations, is an agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Armenia on economic, scientific and technical co-operation. This agreement creates an institutional framework for improving co-operation in these areas between the two signatories. This is a multidisciplinary agreement governing economic relations between our countries in the fields of science, technology, investment, or industry, agriculture, environmental protection, tourism, transport, information and communication technologies, as well as other areas. The agreement also provides for the establishment, as you have already pointed out, of the Ministers, of the Intergovernmental Commission, which will monitor the implementation of the agreement, i.e. the law. The agreement is very stimulating to increase external trade traffic in the designated areas and at the same time the agreement is a guarantee of respect for the legal systems of the signatories, as well as international legal standards relating to the areas of this co-operation. It is true that despite historical good relations between the peoples of Serbia and Armenia, due to geographical distance, this co-operation is below the desired level, but it is the fact that the co-operation will improve in the coming period. To remind you that our head of diplomacy, Ivica Dacic, after meeting with the Armenian head of diplomacy, announced an initiative to lift visas for the citizens of our countries, and this act was a good framework in line with the agreement that we are going to ratify today. When it comes to two tourism agreements with Georgia and Ukraine, which are to be confirmed today, it is important to say that both agreements aim to improve Serbia's tourist position within the European tourist space. Serbia has significant and diverse tourism potentials, which are not sufficiently known to all European markets, are insufficiently known to the markets of Georgia and Ukraine. With these countries, Serbia has traditionally good relations and therefore it is good that the tourist aspect of economic co-operation with these countries gets a legal framework. Both agreements, I recall, were signed in 2012 when the Prime Minister was the current head of diplomacy, Mr. Dacic. During his stay in Ukraine at a business forum, which brought together over 100 Serbian and Ukrainian companies, the agreement was signed with Ukraine and a month later with Georgia. These agreements provide for a number of forms of tourism co-operation, from promotions of tourism potentials, through travel organisation, to exchange of tourist and statistical data. It is important that agreements include the principles of equality and mutual benefit of signatories. The agreements rely on the legal systems of our countries, but also on international law. These agreements should contribute to improving Serbia's international position as a tourist destination, to contribute to an increase in foreign exchange inflow based on tourism. All agreements we are talking about today have the same goal, which is to improve Serbia's bilateral relations with Canada, Armenia, Ukraine and Georgia and the SPS will certainly support and support, or vote in favour of these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26211	The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26212	I thank you, Chairman. President-in-Office, Mr Minister, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, four very important laws today on the validation of international agreements, namely: an international agreement between Serbia and Canada on the incentive and protection of investments, an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Armenia on economic, scientific and technical co-operation, an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on co-operation in the area of tourism and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Ukraine on co-operation in the field of tourism. As regards the Agreement with Canada, this agreement was concluded on 1 October 2014, and it is a legal framework and a basis for protecting and attracting investments both in Serbia and Canada. The main objective of this agreement is to strengthen and improve economic and economic activities in both countries, as I have already said, protection of investment. What is significant about this agreement is that it defines and has special protection mechanisms for investment, and above all the protection mechanism through national treatment, where each country guarantees the investor of another country, signatories, that it will receive the same treatment as it gives to its own investors. Also, what is significant is the protection of all investors against discrimination. There is also protection against expropriation, where it is defined that investment expropriation can only be carried out in cases of envisaged laws. A certain interest fee is also defined from the moment the expropriation was carried out. What's important is to define and compensate for the loss of potential investors, but only in cases of more force, such as war or elemental disasters. Also, protection of rights has been defined through an international arbitration court in cases of disputes, all in accordance with the Washington Convention and other conventions signed by our countries. I find signing this agreement extremely important because it will protect investment, both in Serbia and Canada, and especially because Canada is one of the world's most economically powerful GDP countries of over $721 billion annually. Also, Canada is the third largest exporter of oil and natural gas in the world. It is also one of the largest exporters of iron ore and nickel. I believe that this agreement will use its full potential through the Canadian-Serbian Association, a business association that will certainly contribute to making use of this agreement in its full potential. I would now move to an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Armenia on economic, scientific and technical co-operation. The agreement was signed in Yerevan on 12 October 2014 and is also a legal framework and a basis for the development and promotion of economic, scientific and technical co-operation between the two countries in the areas of investment, tourism, industry, science, technology and agriculture. In order to achieve the basic objectives of this Agreement, it is defined that foreign signatories will allow communication and co-operation between government institutions, the link between professional associations, the establishment of joint ventures, and other activities to improve co-operation in these areas. What is important to say is that the agreement also defines the body to monitor the implementation of the tasks set out in this Agreement, which is an intergovernmental commission to be composed of representatives of the respective institutions of both sides and its task will certainly be to investigate the functioning of this Agreement, to consider the programmes of economic, scientific and technical co-operation between the two countries. The signing of this agreement is significant, as economic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Armenia would unfortunately be at a very low level and would be characterised by a commodity ratio of about two million dollars per year in trade and most of all in drug exports, a machine for the preparation of liver fruit and vegetables. While the imports were in the previous year were only $124,000 and primarily applied to drilling machines. This agreement will enable the development and promotion of economic, scientific and technical co-operation and, specifically, I can say that Serbia can help Armenia with its experiences in agriculture, for example, primarily in exporting our seed goods which we know to be really quality, while, for example, from Armenia, we could import dried fruit which they produce and which is truly exceptional quality, as well as some ores, for example, molybdenum whose are one of the largest producers. I would now move to an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on co-operation in the field of tourism. The agreement was made up in Belgrade on 4 July 2013 and is also a legal framework and a legal basis for the co-operation of tourism areas, through the establishment of co-operation between organisations participating in the development of tourism and investing in the area in question. Cooperation between the two countries will be achieved through joint activities in the form of promotion of organised tourism trips, joint projects, as well as exchange of experts and information in the field of tourism. To implement these agreements and its objectives, the agreement party will also set up one working body, which will be a mixed commission consisting of representatives of both parties and those responsible institutions for the tourism area. I am sure this agreement will significantly help improve and develop both countries' tourism. I would now move to the Law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine, which was also concluded in Belgrade on 6 June 2013. The main objective of this agreement is to improve Serbia and Ukraine's co-operation in the field of tourism and to strengthen bilateral relations between the two countries through this area on the principles of equality and mutual benefit. The agreement committed Serbia and Ukraine to foster a bilateral tourist exchange, as well as to contribute to the establishment of direct contacts between competent institutions in the field of tourism. They also made a commitment to simplify procedures and documentation in the field of tourism so that tourists could get the necessary documentation and travel easier. In order to implement the basic objective of this agreement, which is to strengthen bilateral co-operation in the field of tourism, the two states of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Ukraine also envisioned the formation of a working group on tourism was also composed of representatives of both sides' institutions in charge of tourism. The improvement of bilateral relations between the two countries in the area of tourism is important, not only to lead to improved co-operation in the field of tourism, but also to improving the two countries' overall bilateral relations and raising them to one higher level. I believe that all these agreements will allow for the improvement of bilateral relations between signatories states, the improvement of co-operation between countries in the areas to which they relate, the strengthening of links between the people and certainly new investments in all signatories. I welcome this kind of intense diplomatic activity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is seen through these agreements that we sign and I call on them to continue to do so. The SNS parliamentary group will support these proposals for an agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26213	Thank you. Since we are no longer registered by the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word on a joint single search. The People's Messenger Nenad Milosavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26214	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, today we have two agreements in the field of tourism that the National Assembly should ratify. It is the agreement on co-operation in the area of tourism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia and the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on cooperation in the field of tourism. As I know the agreement with Ukraine was signed in June, and the agreement with Georgia was signed in July 2013. Both agreements aim to create institutional frameworks for the development of all forms of co-operation in the field of tourism and strengthening tourism connections, which represents another serious chance for Serbia to present its tourist offer to Georgia and Ukraine's tourism markets and is more limited to the place. So Serbia wants these agreements to improve its tourist position on the European tourist map. With these countries, Serbia has traditionally good relations, so co-operation in the field of tourism should contribute to improving overall bilateral relations, i.e. overall economic and economic co-operation between Serbia and Georgia and Ukraine. Economic co-operation with Georgia mainly refers to areas of industry, metal construction, containers, medicines. In 2013, for example, the economic exchange was worth about $3m, of which Serbian exports reached $2.8m, so there is a good export base that tourism traffic can increase. When it comes to Ukraine, it should be pointed out that our two countries have long-standing business co-operation. I would like to remind you that the current foreign minister in 2013 as prime minister opened a business forum of Serbian and Ukrainian businessmen with over 80 businesses from Serbia. This occasion was almost the signing of the Free Trade Agreement with Ukraine. Otherwise, for now with Ukraine, Serbia has the most developed co-operation in industry and construction, but there is a large space for improving co-operation in the areas of agro-complexes, energy, goods transport and tourism. In those days, an agreement was signed with Ukraine on co-operation in the field of tourism, which confirmed the country's desire for good bilateral relations to confirm by institutionalising co-operation in the field of tourism. Serbia has become increasingly interesting to foreign tourists as a tourist destination in recent years, as it has great tourist potential and different types of tourist offer. Unfortunately, a lot is not known to the foreign market. One reason is the fact that there is no adequate exchange of tourist information, so that the population, i.e. potential tourists, tourism economy and travel organisers in Georgia and Ukraine are not sufficiently familiar with the tourist offer of the Republic of Serbia. This agreement confirms Serbia and Georgia's readiness, i.e. Serbia and Ukraine, to establish co-operation in the area of tourism at institutional level, creating conditions for its further development and improvement. This also establishes a framework for strengthening the overall economic relations between signatories countries, through co-operation between individual tourism partners. Otherwise, the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and Georgia, the Republic of Serbia and Ukraine in the field of tourism is much weaker than would be possible given the level of traditionally good overall bilateral relations between Serbia and these countries. Unfortunately, the tourist exchange with Georgia and Ukraine is barely statistically visible. Official statistics in our country record tourism traffic with these countries as coming from other European countries, which, of course, represents a kind of confirmation of more than modest results of tourism traffic. This gap is filled with agreements that should be ratified after today's debate, as it highlights specific forms of co-operation of interest and importance for the development of tourism in the signatories' countries, in order to establish a legal basis for further development of tourism exchange. It is important to say that agreements with both countries strengthen co-operation based on principles of equality and mutual use. States signatories will achieve co-operation in the field of tourism in accordance with applicable regulations in their countries, including these agreements, as well as in the framework of international tourism organisations standards. Agreements with Georgia, i.e. Ukraine, allow for co-operation by establishing direct contacts between the competent authorities in the field of tourism, between tour operators and other relevant entities and organisations in the countries of signatories engaged in tourist activity. The agreements also provide for measures that are required to take foreign signatories to ensure the safety of tourists of one country during their stay in another country, and international standards must also be respected. One of the important objectives of these agreements is to encourage the development of tourism infrastructure and the material basis of tourism and investment in the tourism industry. This aspect of the development of Serbia's tourism economy is of great importance, given the diversity of the tourism offer and the great potential for its development. It is known that Serbia has great potential for the development of Banja, mountainous, rural and transit tourism, that it has a rich cultural heritage and a large number of internationally recognised and well-known tourist events, such as Guca, Birfest, Ehit, and Nisville, after all. The co-operation provided for by these bilateral agreements also includes the area of exchange of experts and education programmes for tourist officials and professionals, for co-operation between organisations dealing with tourism research, exchange of statistics and other information of importance for the two countries' tourism co-operation. Both agreements are concluded for five years, with the possibility of automatic extension for the next five-year period. Finally, it should be noted that the implementation of these agreements does not require specific financial resources from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and on the other hand, their ratification and application are expected to contribute not only to tourism but also to the overall economic development of the Republic through an increased foreign exchange inflow from tourism, as well as through possible investments in tourism infrastructure. In light of all the reasons presented by the motionor, as well as the actual expected effects, the SPS Parliamentary Group will support ratification of these two bilateral agreements in the Voting Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26215	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26216	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers and fellow MPs, at today's session, I will only say a few words about the agreements that are on the agenda today. As the third item of the agenda at this fourth session of the First Regular Session, the agreement between Serbia and Canada on encouraging and protecting investments is. The agreement was signed in Belgrade on 1 September 2014 and is a desire for foreign parties to establish a legal framework to ensure additional investor attraction. This agreement guarantees investors full protection and security of their investments. Investors from Contracting States shall be guaranteed that no expropriation will be made in relation to their investment or any other measure of state, except in cases prescribed by law and under a strictly prescribed procedure, and that all will be followed by one effective and effective compensation. No specific financial commitments are created for the Republic of Serbia to implement the Agreement on the Encouragement and Protection of Investments between the Republic of Serbia and Canada. If we analyse the current situation, we can freely say that the Canadian economy is very interested in investing in Serbia, especially in the areas of energy, mining, agriculture, food industry and infrastructure. More than 50 Canadian companies are operating in Serbia, and it is evident that there is a mutual interest in improving the two countries' economic co-operation. Canada is heartily supporting reforms and Serbia's European path and is pushing for an accelerated development of economic co-operation. Last year, trade between Serbia and Canada increased nearly 50%, but more investment is expected to increase from Serbia to Canada in the coming period. In addition to economics, we expect to certainly improve co-operation in the field of education. The fourth item of the agenda concerns the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia on Economic, Scientific and Technical Co-operation. The desire of the two countries' agreement is to intensify and devirify their mutual trade, in line with the principles of equality, common interest and international law. The two countries' economic co-operation is at a low level so far, and it's mostly a trade in goods. It is certainly below the potential of the economy of these two countries and that level of trade in goods is unsatisfactory, almost symbolic. That is why this agreement came about, as it is expected that it will provide a good basis for an intensification of economic co-operation and prosperity. In the first seven months of 2014, the value of exports to the Republic of Armenia amounted to $1.1 million, while the total value of imports of Armenian goods of 63 dollars -- mainly to imports of aluminium foil. To implement this agreement, the funds will be provided within the limits established by the fiscal strategy, at the division of the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. As for the agreement between the government of Serbia and Georgia in the field of tourism, it should allow an institutional framework to boost co-operation between the countries signatories of the agreement, and this still results in a strengthening of the overall economic relations between the two countries. Official statistics show and record that tourism traffic with Georgia is treated as coming from other European countries, which is a confirmation of modest results. Potential tourists from Georgia are not sufficiently familiar with the tourism potential Serbia has. The emphasis shall be given in Article 1. It puts the agreement on strengthening co-operation, increasing the understanding of the country's history and culture. Article 3 provides for co-operation to be achieved through the promotion of organised group and individual tourist trips between the two countries. This can still be completed by sharing tourist information, as well as by supporting the development of staff in the area of tourism and hospitality. Article 6 provides for the establishment of a mixed commission, which, on the basis of its rules of procedure, regulates and monitors activities between representatives of the two countries' institutions whose competence is in the field of tourism. As for the 6th item of the agenda, it concerns an agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on co-operation in the field of tourism, which is not in line with traditionally good overall bilateral relations. We also have a situation here that are very modest results, and the agreement should improve co-operation in the tourism areas of the two countries, encourage bilateral exchanges and establish direct contacts between competent authorities in the field of tourism, tourist agencies, as well as other relevant entities and organisations involved in tourism activity. For example, it is envisaged to strengthen and develop tourism infrastructure, material bases, as well as invest in the tourism industry. Article 7 provides for the organisation of seminars for tourist officials and professionals. Article 9 provides for the establishment of a working group on tourism in order to monitor the application of this Agreement, and it is important to say that we are in favour of implementing the Law on the Confirmation of this Agreement and it is important to say that this does not require any special means when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In the day to vote, the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group will certainly support these agreements that we have been holding today, as well as the election of judges who came up as an official proposal from the High Council of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26217	I thank you, Mrs. Djokovic. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Bojanic, and let the MP Irena Alexic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26218	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, we have a set of four interstate agreements, two in the field of tourism, aware that the tourist exchange with Ukraine and Georgia and is at the level of a statistical error. That's exactly why the government proposed this agreement and signed it and gave it to us for adoption. Unlike colleagues who in recent discussions, well, in a funny way, I would say sarcastic, they tried to address the topic of co-operation in the area of Serbia and Ukraine's tourism. I think we'll certainly achieve envious results, much better than they've ever been before. What I would spend more time on and more of your attention on is the agreement between Serbia and Canada. First of all, as in two called the president of the parliamentary group of friendships with Canada and what was my special pleasure, it was one small parliamentary group in that previous meeting, at the initiative of fellow Members Marija Obradović, Olena Papuga and mine, the fourth member was Radmilo Kostic, we started a story. The story has already been seen on the visit of Mr Noel Kinsela, President of the Senate of Canada in September 2013, when I hosted the Senate of Canada delegation to Serbia. Its great place in all the stories and all the talks that were held at the level of the Prime Minister has at the level of the previous Ambassador of Canada in Serbia, it is Mr. Roman Vajchuk, the man who took up all his and his and his knowledge and potential, to bring as many investors from Canada to Serbia and to Serbia wherever he can help, whether we were ever in problems with floods or anything, whether these were incubators' security actions for our maternity care, Ambassador Roman Vashchuk was present and the state of Canada was present. And why not? Canada is an economic giant. If I say they only have 3% of the unemployed, so isn't it our goal to cooperate and that co-operation that is intense at this point is much bigger and much wider? Also, I'll mention, here today we mentioned numbers from 120,000 to 300,000 of our people in the diaspora. It's about a figure of about 200,000 of our people in the diaspora live in Canada. It is my special pleasure to mention again the man who left Serbia 70 years ago, it is Mr. Milomir Glavcic, who, by chance, I have never met in person, but we have exchanged the conversation, both by telephone and by written means. It's a man who's earned everything in Canada, and he's investing in Serbia. He's not an investor. At age, he's 90 years old and he doesn't want to invest anymore, to create, but that's why he wants to be a donor, or to give this country everything he can. He gave the city a million euros and built a beautiful bridge that connects the two coasts of Ibra. And as Mr Kinsela spoke with the then president of our parliament, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, said: "Our goal is for the two of us, as presidents of the two parliaments, to make a bridge like the citizen of Canada and a citizen of Canada, a Serb origin, Milomir Glavcic, did in his King." Also, there's no end to the story of Milomir Glavcic. Milomir Glavcic just yesterday paid 600,000 euros and provided a magnetic resonance for the hospital in the Kingdom, and the hospital in the Kingdom will cover the area of Kraljev, Vranjska Banja, Raška and Novi Pazar with this magnetic resonance. Why not take advantage of all the advantages that we have with our people living in Canada, and with businessmen from Canada who are really interested in investing in our country, especially after this agreement? Canada invests primarily in energy and mining. Here I will mention the hydropower plants, first of all that Bistrica, which is invested about 600,000 euros and Brodarevo, I hope it goes its course, as well as a large investment in the Mining-Topier Basen Bor. I will only point out that the Bombardiers also invested certain funds and opened a cable factory in Vojvodina. Don't let me count on it. The Canadians are primarily known here for helping us a lot. I think there's about 70 licenses to question our mine treasure. Currently, over 50 firms from Canada are working in Serbia. Over a billion euros in direct investments from Canada have been invested in the past few years. The foreign trade exchange with Canada doesn't follow this story, and I think that through this agreement, we're going to improve that, and we're going to raise that co-operation to a higher level. I think the foreign trade exchange is currently about 40m euros. The European path of Serbia and all that we are doing here, in order to bring Europe closer, also helps us to be for Canadian investors quite attractive and Canadian investors, as well as the Government of Canada, see Serbia as the centre of this part of Europe and the part to invest in. They think we're the leader of the region. Since my colleagues said a lot and shouldn't be longer, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26219	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26220	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, today we are discussing four agreements, each of which is very important in its area. In particular, two agreements concern tourism between the government of the Republic of Serbia and Ukraine, and Georgia. Of course, there is no particular mention of how much tourism is a very powerful industry and how much profit it brings back, so all the resources invested, so definitely, as such, tourism and how much it deserves to be constantly working on it. The existing co-operation in the area of tourism between the countries mentioned is extremely modest, so to speak, so that these agreements will serve to change that and I think that this is the right way for things to change for the better. These agreements will set up an institutional framework, which so far has not been, which will practically allow for the development of cooperation in the field of tourism between our countries, among other things, by enabling one direct communication, contacts between all relevant tourism entities, starting with tourist agencies and beyond. In this way, all potential tourists will be able to see what the offer offered in Georgia, what a tourist offer in Ukraine is, but everyone will also be able to see what a tourist offer our country is offering, which is indeed, when we talk about our country's tourist offer, one extremely rich offer, and when it comes to mountain tourism and when it comes to Banish tourism, rural tourism. Different potentials have our country when it comes to tourism, so people will finally be able to see what a tourist offer is in Serbia, which they have not been able to do so far. Otherwise, when it comes to tourism, the Republic of Serbia still has the largest number of tourists from the former Yugoslav republics, which is, of course, very good. The development of regional tourism is commendable, but we also need not be satisfied with it. So we should not stop at that, but rather, we should attract tourists from some distant countries that they want to come here too, to leave their money in our country, so I think these agreements are very important and are going in that direction. Then there is the proposal for an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on incentives and investment protection. First of all, it aims to create an atmosphere of legal certainty that, of course, will act incentivically on potential investors. In particular, when it comes to Canada, it is a country that supports us and how it supports us, in different fields, and how it is in the mood to invest in our country. What we have to do on our part is create such conditions and keep working on such conditions that every potential investor will feel maximum certainty to invest in our country, to have one spotless legal support. This agreement is definitely going that way. I will not repeat why all Canada is in the mood to invest, when it comes to our country, to invest, my colleagues have already repeatedly mentioned that these are numerous areas, primarily energy and mining, so I think this agreement will definitely prove more useful. Finally, there is also a proposal for an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia on economic, scientific and technical co-operation. The whole goal of this agreement is to improve economic co-operation between the two countries, which has definitely not been at an enviable level so far, first of all, my colleagues have mentioned it, it comes down to the trade of goods, which is really the potential of these two countries deserve more, so that this agreement aims to change, to create a better, better co-operation, when it comes to the economy between these two countries, which, of course, will bring our people closer because nothing brings people, culture and everything else from the economy closer together. With the economy of the sea, it should begin. At the very end of my presentation, I would like to point out that all these agreements I have spoken about are handled in a rather simple principle, which is the principle of equality and the principle of mutual benefit between the signatories countries. This means that everyone has the benefit, that no one has any harm, and what is very important that they should not be left out to mention, is that the Republic of Serbia will not have to allocate additional funds from the budget to implement these agreements. So we definitely don't have any expenses, we just have something very good, very useful for our country. Of course, always, something of quality, which is good and useful, will always come across the support of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26221	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26222	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming to the most beautiful Svrlig municipality, and I am talking here about this 4th and 5th point about tourism. So, the agreement between our republics of Serbia and Georgia and Serbia and Ukraine. We all know that Serbia's greatest chance is agriculture, but there is tourism. That's why I fully support our government and our government's guidelines to work on it. We all know how much success Serbia has in political terms, in diplomatic terms, we all know how much they recognize us in the world because of this policy that we are now leading. As for this part about tourism and the Agreement between our Republic of Serbia and Ukraine, that is very important for all of us, as far as Serbia is concerned, because tourism is very important for all of our citizens, and I underline it here is rural tourism. Agriculture and rural tourism have something in common, it is our Serb village. I'm coming, as I just said from a small one, but a very nice municipality that has great tourism capacities, is passing the highway, there's an airport in Nis. Therefore, we from such small municipalities, other than making a contribution to the development of agriculture, want more work to be done to promote tourism, to have friends from Georgia come to us from Ukraine, from Russia, from the European countries, from China, to see the beauty and our municipalities, to see the beauty of our Serbia as well. We have what to offer them. This Agreement is very important for all of us, for our agriculture and for our tourism. I'd like to thank you now at the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, thank your associate Renati, who really has the soul and the will to work on tourism. I am sure that all together and we here MPs who come from beautiful but small municipalities will have the opportunity to strengthen the capacity of tourism, the more we promote, and through such agreements to bring tourists from all over the world. Otherwise, as far as tourism and agriculture are concerned, as I said earlier, it is common to rural tourism. We have great opportunities where close to 40% of our population lives in our villages, where it takes 10% of those people who want to deal with rural tourism or some other kind of tourism can use their buildings, their facilities, to invest in them a little bit. Local self-government can also help, which can also help normally, the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the competent ministry. There, through various European projects, cross-border co-operation projects can be used and the equipment of these households can be used. To invite tourists to come to us through publications, let's say they come to the Srlig to, say, Nis, to the Nis region, because it's really very nice. On the other hand, when they come there, it is quite an example that the rural household has two rooms, that there are two beds in each room, that during the year 200 working days, awake is engaged through rural tourism activities. This household may also bring profits, which is said to be close to 16,000 euros. If our entire population, and I said a little while ago, 40% of people live in our villages, 10% of these people are billions and 600,000 euros that would come into the budget of the Republic of Serbia and help our farmers to improve their situation, I think in part, the financial situation and that they can live from it. An example of good practice is that in the vicinity of Nis and the town of Nis, and my municipality from which I come, Srljiga and the surrounding municipalities put a great accent on tourism. With us there is a very important Old Mountain, where there is a great chance that this part of our Serbia will live in touristic life. There are also the municipalities of Književec, and Sokobanja municipality, and the municipality of Piroth, the municipalities of Svrljig, Bela Palanka, the town of Nis. This is very important for us, and I hope that we will all be able to solve the access roads to the Old Mountain, to the resort of the Old Mountain, so that tourists can come and see the beauty and goodness of all of our Serb hosts living in those areas who want to welcome them. We need a little investment, and we will do our honest work, with our sincere desire to host these people, to make a contribution that farmers and tourists who come to us can see the beauty and goodness of all of us living in Serbia, and I especially put an accent in our Serbian villages. Right, because a Serbian peasant other than agriculture can also deal with tourism. What else can I say? As an MP at the SNS Parliament Club, as an MP of the United Peasant Party, I see that our great chance in agriculture and tourism. As a result, Minister Ljajic, I am sure that you and our prime minister will put much greater emphasis on agriculture and tourism in the coming period. That is why I, as an MP, will vote in favour of all these draft agreements, and I am sure that this will enable our Serbian peasant to live better and better. At the same time, I hope that we will have the opportunity to provide new jobs through tourism, to provide better catering services, and all that is important for our Serbia. Once again, I urge all our friends from abroad to come to Nis, to come to the most beautiful municipality of Srlig and to feel the well-being of our Serb hosts.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26223	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26224	Dear chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have four agreements signed today between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Canada, Georgia, Armenia. What I would like to point out first is that all these agreements, i.e. that the common thread of all these agreements, is the creation of good bilateral relations between our country and the countries with which we have signed these agreements, but besides creating good bilateral relations, they certainly also produce good economic, touristic, good scientific, good technological and good overall relations. What I want first to emphasise, and I will start from 19 February 2015 when a tourism fair was held in Belgrade attended by a thousand and a hundred exhibitors, of which 50 countries from the world, when Prime Minister Vukic pointed out at the opening of the fair that tourism is a great future. Why is tourism a great future? The tourism economy of the herd in total GDP participates with 1.8%. However, the government's estimate is that in two years, the rate of tourism industry's participation in the gross domestic product will be 3%. Why is tourism still important and what are the parameters on which Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic relied, but you ministers, too, when you were exposed to the tourism fair? This is the fact that in 2014, the number of tourists in Serbia was 11.6% higher than compared to 2013, although we know that our country was affected by an unremembered flood in 2014. So, in such cases, the tourism economy has seen growth. Certainly, the development of tourism should also contribute to the development of road and traffic infrastructure, but the development of tourism so far and its participation in the gross domestic product has certainly contributed to the work of "Er Serbia". We hope that the implementation of the "Belgrade on Water" project will also contribute to improving our country's overall tourist offer. As far as I'm concerned, I have to stress, otherwise, that the total foreign exchange inflow occurring in the Republic of Serbia is 60% of that total foreign exchange inflow, wastes right on the City of Belgrade, because the city of Belgrade is certainly the intersection of roads, but also the place where tourists come most. As for the agreement in the area of tourism signed with Georgia, I must point out that the subject of this agreement is certainly the establishment of a legal framework to strengthen the capacity of the tourist offer, both Serbia and Georgia, to attract tourists from Georgia to our country, but of course to strengthen the cultural, historical ties between our two countries and the culture and customs of our two countries. I must stress that the Republic of Serbia really has significant tourist potentials, rivers, lakes, mountains and I must stress within cultural historical monuments, and, of course, natural beauty, especially the southwest part of Serbia, the area where I come from, it is a Pryboj, the monastery of St. Nicholas in the Pribojska Banja and then the 13th century Manastir Milesev, where there is a famous fresco belonging to the world's treasure, that is the fresco "White Angel" as well as the mountains of Jadnik and mountain Zlatar, which has untouchable natural wealth, which is located in that part of Serbia and which can certainly be a significant potential for the development of tourism at all. What stems from this agreement with Georgia is also very important that it encourages investment between interested investors and one side and the other, i.e. investment of stakeholders in tourism. It is also very important to exchange our experts, as well as Serbia from Georgia, exchange of knowledge, exchange of experience, as well as exchange of students who are studying and will deal with tourism and hospitality in the future. Also very significant is the formation of a mixed commission that will monitor the implementation and implementation of this agreement, but not only follow, but in good time and in time point to all the shortcomings and obstacles that can arise in the realisation of this agreement. The second agreement, which is also significant, is an agreement signed with Armenia in the area of economic technical and technological co-operation, but I will also focus among other things this part of which concerns agriculture, environmental protection and, of course, will form an intergovernmental commission that will subsequently set priorities and priority segments, where it will be handled, but certainly Serbia sees its chance somewhere in the development of agriculture in the preservation of the environment and in the development of tourism potential. My colleagues, especially counterpart Zoran Bojanic, spoke exhaustively about the Canada Agreement so that I will not repeat myself. The SNS in the voting day will support all agreements and a proposal to elect a judge who is first elected to office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26225	The word has a folk MP, Vesna Simic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26226	Mr. Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As we have repeatedly had the opportunity to hear today, there are four proposals on the agenda of today's session of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Canada, on the promotion of investment, and on the confirmation of the Agreement with Armenia on Economic, Scientific and Technical Co-operation, with the Government of Georgia and the Office of Minister of Ukraine on the Cooperation of Tourism. It is certainly necessary to adopt the draft law on the validation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on the promotion and protection of investments. We also need all kinds of co-operation and investment after the 12-year desolation of our country by the former regime. This law allows for the right of investment to be exercised by a third party in the process or by its authorised institutions, with the aim of encouraging investment. However, what is most significant in this agreement is that both parties are ready to provide investors with the same treatment as domestic investors. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Armenia agreed on the conclusion of the agreement, on economic, scientific and technical co-operation, and for this type of co-operation, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, and co-operation would be reflected in their promotions, investment in tourism, innovation of transport and transit, development of agriculture and environmental protection. Our government also signed an agreement with the Government of Georgia and the Office of Minister of Ukraine on co-operation in the field of tourism. Tourism and agriculture, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises, are the backbone of our economy, both in the present and in the future. That's why these agreements are of crucial importance to us. In addition to contributing to the development of the economy and culture, they also contribute to a better understanding of the way of life of history and cultural heritage between the countries of the signatories. As I just pointed out, the backbone of our economy is agriculture and tourism. The municipality of Književec, from which I come from, is recognized by the Old Mountain, as my colleague Milijac mentioned earlier in his presentation, since his colleague comes from the neighboring municipality of Svrljig, where we have touch points with the Stara Planina, where he has long started to develop winter sports recreational tourism. However, certain works and projects have been started on the Old Mountain, and some have been detained and are now in office. With new investments, primarily in road infrastructure, some experts say it would become a stronger tourist destination than Kopalnik. Also, this small municipality with slightly over 30,000 inhabitants is important because it has potential for the development of all types of tourism, Banjski, since it owns one, still insufficiently tested source of thermo-mineral water that is certainly medicinal, above all for rheumatotic diseases, while some studies say it cures mild forms of neurological problems. We've tried to launch this project for years, but no interested investor has yet to show up. The area is also very suitable for the development of rural and rural tourism and for the cultivation of bony fruits, plums, blackberries, cherries, raspberries and others. This is why I urge interested investors to visit the municipality of Književec, halfway between Nis and Zaječar, as well as the authorities to make a small investment in road infrastructure, without which all of this is impossible. Since the end of World War II, no one has recognized it, nor has anyone invested in the municipality of Književec, but I am sure that the current government with Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic will not only recognize the blessings of the Književec municipality, but also do everything to make sure that the Književec takes the place that belongs to him. With that in mind, I would like to thank you and I am very encouraged by the minister's words for a moment when he called on municipalities to send projects. We've done this to earlier governments several times, we're going to send it, I'm going to check it myself, a project to build "Banjiza", a thermomineral source "Banjiza" and if there's any possibility of you giving us some resources to launch this project that will certainly be of general benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26227	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26228	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with guests from the ministry, honourable MPs, respected citizens who watch us today should vote for four agreements, first of all with Armenia, with Georgia, with Ukraine and with Canada. My colleagues mostly said everything. I'll only talk about two agreements. It's all said, especially the minister. Thank you for this fine exposure and never resign. You're a fantastic minister. Thank you. The Republic of Armenia is a very friendly country to us, but unfortunately we have a very bad trade relationship with it. It usually ends up on a trade. As far as production is concerned, we're very thin here. The reasons for this situation are, in addition to geographical, of course, unregulated contractual legal relations in the area of the economy. Otherwise, in the previous period, this agreement was signed, however it did not come to life. We are fortunate to have this agreement signed in 2015 on 1 January and we have the status, as well as the Republic of Armenia, the privileged, most privileged state. What would that mean? It would mean that we have MFN customs, so we have duty-free trade and we have treatment, as the Republic of Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus do. All these agreements are mostly very good because it is about bilateral relations, about bringing countries together, of course both bilateral and multilateral relations, and Serbia is taking an extraordinary path towards strengthening the economy, trade, everything. Cooperation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Armenia covers the following areas, primarily investment policies, then tourism, industry, transit, agriculture, environmental protection, regional development, as well as science, technology and innovation. In order to co-operate with this agreement, it is necessary to promote communication and co-operation between government institutions, first and foremost, the link between professional chambers and associations organisations, which is very important, visits, contacts, publications, exchanges of views between both businessmen and scientists. So one full co-operation on both sides. To accomplish the tasks, the International Commission, which is tasked with monitoring and if any problems arise, is set up to address this problem by all international legal conventions. The next law I will talk about is a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on co-operation in the field of tourism. When it comes to tourism, it's not just tourism, it's a complete economy and cultural heritage, or culture. It is very important that we connect as far as cultural heritage is concerned, because when you know a country you are happy to return to that country, and of course if you love and know it, you will invest in it. Both sides support the establishment and development of co-operation between entrepreneurs and organisations, which is very important, because if we have that interaction, that interaction, then we have really good co-operation and there will be investments on both sides. Co-operation is realized the following way. Promotion of organized travel, then supporting joint activities and projects, exchange of experts, support for staff, exchange of publications, support for the development of staff in the field of tourism and hospitality. Both countries encourage the exchange of information in the following areas, primarily tourism statistics, educational programme, conferences, seminars, publications, various types of workshops, promotional activities, potential for investment, trends, and newspapers in the field of tourism. What I'm going to say is that both sides are setting up a mixed commission that is responsible for the proper implementation of these agreements. Also, if there is a problem, it is solved in a very fast and efficient way. The Serbian Progressive Party will be happy to support these draft agreements laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26229	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26230	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I don't mind the noises, freely, you don't have to silence them, I will support all four agreements with both Ukraine and Georgia in tourism, with Armenia on technical co-operation. I will also support, of course, an investment protection agreement with Canada and the first thing I will say is that the agreements signed on 6 June 2013, 4 July 2013, 12 October 2014 and for the first time in this House, this Assembly, in a very short time, confirms the agreements signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with other governments, which until several years ago was not the case, so in 2012, in 2013, we confirmed agreements that were signed even remotely in 2001. As for the agreement on tourism, I think it is right that tourism agreements are very important not only for the development of tourism as a service activity, but also for the development of food and food production, i.e. agricultural production, production of fruits, vegetables, milk, production of drinks, juices, alcoholic beverages, and in such a way that agriculture and production are being raised, not only is this consumed by tourists visiting our country, but in such a way that certain brands from the food industry are being promoted, food products are being promoted, so I will set an example that in Montenegro until there were Russian tourists, that no one exported to Russia nor German ham nor black wine, but after the stay of Russian tourists in Montenegro, Montenegro's exports to wine and Germany's prosciutto has increased sharply and gives significant revenues to Montenegro. So, tourism has a positive impact on agricultural production, and since I come from this profession, I advocate not only the development of classical tourism, Banjska tourism, I also advocate the development of rural tourism, and this can be a chance especially for small agricultural holdings that can be a perspective not only in agricultural production, but can also be a perspective in employment, in new employment primarily of rural labour, and that in such a way, a certain way is brought back to life and a village, that is, as the provinces say in Belgrade. As for protecting investment with Canada, I support the agreement. It also implies the exchange of information and I believe that there will be no future cases happening during the party of the former regime, because this agreement is very similar to the agreement that we had with Belgium and the party of the former regime so misused the agreement on the application of the "Energo Zelena" found in India, where due to the bad information our party provided, "Energo Zelena" launched a 100m-euro arbitration dispute, because it was deceived by the party of the former regime, information is given that there are 250 thousand tonnes of confiscates and that up to 150 thousand tonnes of waste processing in this foreign investment will be even small for Serbia's territory and will need another factory. It turns out that we do not have so many confiscats and the Belgian side has filed a dispute, and today, the Serbian government seems to be all about trying to agree with a foreign investor who has invested significant money, to re-drive "Energo Zelena" to open up the territory of the Republic of Serbia and to raise those 40 and something of the former regime's bad information, to question the fact that the 40 and some of the workers have their jobs again, while fully protecting themselves from the slaughterous waste, the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and that protection is very important in the integrations in which Serbia is located. Also, this agreement includes companies that are investors, their protection, and I have already cited this example of "Energo Green", where it must very carefully take place towards foreign investors, so that we do not get the case that happened...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26231	I beg the Members of the People's Parliament, please, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very uncomfortable, but I must ask for some silence. I can't hear a man talking at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26232	I don't mind that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26233	No, it bothers me. I'm sorry, Marian.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26234	If it bothers you, I respect your will. So, let me finish around "Energo Green", that because of one obviously corrupt process of the former state's party, the position is that it can crack 100m euros in arbitration and lose face even worse in front of a future foreign investor. So I advocate voting for an agreement with Canada, but let's be careful not to make mistakes made by the former regime's party on the information provided to the other side. To take advantage of the minister's presence and suggest that the lady use Article 32. In order to protect it fully in livestock and milk production, in order to protect it from any advances which will be in accordance with Article 32, the SSP used this in the protection of milk producers, as regards raw and butter products. The SSP and other food products. First of all, I think of milk powder, I think of seasonal protection of fruits and vegetables, since, thanks to the SAA, it can be done to Article 32, because the opportunities in agriculture are getting worse, endangering our agricultural production, where the SAA is used to make excess products come from sanctions between Russia and the EU pouring into our market and thus jeopardising our domestic agricultural production. I want to welcome the fact that the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture has found a way to protect the production of cheeses and butters, and I also want in such a way to protect other types of production in fruit and vegetables, including in powdered milk and in such a way as to fully, as far as possible and as much as former agreements allow, to protect domestic agricultural production, to protect livestock stock, vegetables, fruit trees. These are small agricultural holdings that can be a perspective in Serbia's future employment. In any case, I am voting for all four agreements and I propose that the Ministry of Trade and Agriculture continue to protect, and even more, domestic agricultural production in line, I have already said, with Articles 32 and 41. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26235	The word is made by MP Ivana Dinic, the last speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26236	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs and MPs, although these legislative proposals on the validation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on Encouragement and Protection of Investments, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Armenia on Economic Scientific and Technical Co-operation, seem to act as minor and minor legal frameworks for us, they are actually a legal basis that will provide mutual incentives and protection to investors in terms of attracting investment and launching joint projects in the fields of science, medicine, and economy. For example, when it comes to confirming an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on the promotion and protection of investments, the signing of this agreement guarantees investors of the countries of the contracting parties national and the treatment of the most senior nation, as well as the full protection and security of their investments, respecting fair and non-discriminatory treatment, as well as compensation from losses that the investor may suffer in the event of circumstances which could not be anticipated or prevented, such as: War or armed conflicts. What is also guaranteed by this agreement is the right of investors to seek legal protection with the international arbitration court in the event of a dispute with the host state, and in accordance with the basic principles of international law in this area and the provisions of the Washington Convention on the Resolution of Investment Disputes between States and nationals of other states already ratified by the Republic of Serbia. Also, each party to the Agreement will encourage companies that are under its jurisdiction to voluntarily build internationally recognised standards of socially responsible business in the context of their business and internal policy. This will create a more favourable business climate for development, improve the economic co-operation of the two countries, and stimulate new investments by Canadian companies. Since Canada understands Serbia's foreign-political position in relation to Europe, i.e. the EU and Russia, the relationship between our two countries should be strengthened both at the highest political level and at the economic level, because although Serbia and Canada have extraordinary bilateral relations, even faster progress in the field of economic co-operation is possible. Serbia has huge potential for Canadian investment, especially in terms of mining and drug production. We believe that a significant boost to Canadian investment in the Serbian economy will be a major Serbian diaspora in Canada, which is estimated to be as many as 170,000 citizens. The Serbian community in Canada is very well positioned and enjoys reputation, so it can represent an important bond between our two countries and motivate Canadian investors. Of course, there are many prominent businessmen in our diaspora who can be themselves the bearers of investments in the Serbian economy. Also, it should not be forgotten that more than 50 Canadian companies are working in Serbia and that Canada is special for investing in the energy sector, in hydropower plants. Most of the time, in connection with HE "Bistrica", it was discussed Brodarev and investment in RTB "Bor". So, by signing one of these agreements, we are actually creating conditions that will attract all stakeholders and enable efficient and profitable and most important safe and stable business in our country. Even though Canada has invested hundreds of millions of dollars in the Republic of Serbia in recent years, foreign trade is small and amounts to just over $40m. At the invitation of Serbian Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, Canada's foreign minister, staying in Belgrade, stressed that Canada is interested in Serbia's potential, primarily in the area of pharmaceutical industry and mining. That is why we can freely say that the agreement represents a continuation of excellent economic co-operation between Serbia and Canada and a new step in creating a full legal environment for improving the two countries' economic affairs. The agreement sends a clear message to Canadian investors that Serbia respects all international legal standards in the area of investor rights and is safe for all foreign investments. Two years ago, Serbia and Canada signed an agreement on strategic and economic co-operation that defines all areas of co-operation between the two countries, primarily energy, mining, industry, infrastructure, agriculture and, of course, the food sector. So the agreement we are talking about today is based on a strategic and economic co-operation agreement with Canada. It is also of great importance for quality bilateral relations that the agreement on avoidance of double taxation between Serbia and Canada has been in force since 1 January of this year, sending a strong message to the business community in Canada to engage more in Serbia by opening new businesses and new jobs. On this occasion, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I support the validation of another bilateral agreement, which is the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia on economic, scientific and technical co-operation creating an institutional framework for co-operation in these areas between the signatories states. The intention of our government is clear to strengthen and intensify the economic link between our countries in the areas of investment policy, tourism, industry, science, technology, transport, information and communication technologies, regional development of agriculture, etc. To this end, the Parties will regularly exchange information on laws and procedures governing the protection of intellectual property rights in their home countries. This also creates a legal basis for the establishment of an intergovernmental commission for economic, scientific and technical co-operation, which will be drawn up by representatives of the competent authorities of the Contracting States. The commission will monitor the application of this agreement and consider co-operation programmes in areas of common interest, examine problems that could interfere with the principle of correct business co-operation. It is unnatural that, in addition to the extraordinary relationship that our two countries have, our two nations, the trade exchange between Serbia and Armenia will be at a very low level. It seems that only a $10m trade, while co-operation of production and long-term character has not yet been developed. Unfortunately, the co-operation achieved is far below the potential of the economy of our two countries. One reason is, apart from the geographical distance and the fact that the area of economic relations is not contractually regulated, this agreement will provide a good basis for correct and intensive economic co-operation. It is particularly important to point out that it is working on the implementation of visa reliefs, in order to encourage greater tourism and economic exchanges and, to that end, Serbian head of diplomacy Ivica Dacic and Foreign Minister Armenia have announced an initiative to lift visas for the citizens of both countries, which has come across a positive echo on both sides. A space has been created to improve and launch a number of joint projects in science, medicine, and in particular economies. In view of all of this, the SPS Parliamentary Group considers that the proposal for a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Canada on Encouragement and Protection of Investments, as well as a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia on Economic, Scientific and Technical Co-operation and more than significant for the economic, scientific and technological development of our country, as well as for a vision which its citizens should have for a better, more certain and stable future. For these reasons in the voting day, we will vote for both of the laws mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26237	Thank you. Since the lists are no longer signed up for the word, I ask if they want the word of representatives of the parliamentary groups, someone who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? You're authorized? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26238	I would like to thank the President. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will only briefly refer to the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on the Protection of Investments and, under the agreement, I would call on investors from Canada to invest in the Republic of Serbia, because they now have a legal and institutional framework for investment and their investment will be protected. Not only that, but also the Republic of Serbia since the government of the Republic of Serbia with Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic headed it has become a stable, modern and orderly state, with a good investment climate, which shows investments that took place at the time of the government's term. For example, the Henkel factory in Krusevec, which invested 21m euros and opened 220 new jobs. The Johnson Electric factory in Nis, which is a company that operates in more than 30 countries and has more than 30,000 employees around the world, has opened a plant in Nis that employs 250 new workers with a 20m-euro investment. The "Cooper Standard" car industry in Sremska Mitrovica, which is part of the "Cooper Standard Group" that operates in more than 19 countries and has as many as 25,000 workers around the world with 25m-dollar investment, with the government of the Republic of Serbia providing 4m euros for this investment and where 200 workers are employed, and another 600 employees are planned by the end of 2016. The production hall of the Finnish company PKC in Smederev, assisted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, was built at 682 million dinars where 370 people were employed and as many as 1500 employees were planned. Then "Svarovski" in Subotica with 200 new employees, "Kalcedonija" in Subotica, gins and Turkish textile factory in Krupanj, where 120 workers and a number of other investments show that the government of the Republic of Serbia is a credible partner for all investors. I also call on investors from Canada and all investors to invest in the Republic of Serbia, as the government of the Republic of Serbia will ensure that their investment is secure and protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-17-0.u26239	Thank you. I'm concluding a joint single search. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday 17 April 2015, starting at 13pm and 20 minutes as the Day of Vote on agenda items of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. We'll approach the vote immediately. The honourable MPs before we move on to a decision need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 140 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, no one, abstentioned – one, voted five of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases by majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the choice of a judge elected for the first time in office, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, v – two abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move on to a decision to confirm international agreements. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on encouraging and protecting investment, in general. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: for – 157, no one, abstentioned – one, voted two of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia on economic, scientific and technical co-operation in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, no one, abstentioned – one, voted one of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on co-operation in the field of tourism, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 158, did not vote two of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on co-operation in the field of tourism, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the sitting agenda, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
