ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31309	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the number of Members of the People's Parliaments' presence, I find that the meeting is attended by 95 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Gordana Comic. We continue to work and move on to a single search of the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States of Participants in a Partnership for Peace, on the status of their forces in the next Additional Protocol of the Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other States of the Participants in a Partnership for Peace and in the Status of their Forces. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Bratislava Gasic, Defence Minister Zoran Djordjevic, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence and the captain of the military ship Milan Konjikovic, head of the International Defence Co-operation Administration at the Ministry of Defence. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Member States of the participating Member States in the Partnership for Peace on the Status of their Forces and the Upcoming Protocols between the States of the PARTNERS OF THE PARTNERS AND THE OTHER COUNTRIES OF PARTICIPANTS IN THE PARTNERS’ PARTNERS’ PARTNERS’ PARTIES ON THE STATUS OF STATUS OF THEIR STRAIGHT BEFORE THE OPEN SCRUITS ARE OPENED, I remind you that under Article 170, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 170. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a unique search into the bill. Does the defence minister want a word? Please, the word has been made by Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31310	Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on the validation of the agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States of participants in a partnership for peace, on the status of their forces with the additional Protocol of the Agreement and the next Additional Protocol of the Agreement, signed in Washington on 27 January 2014. After urging the Republic of Serbia to join the Partnership for Peace Programme, at the NATO Summit in Riga in December 2006, the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with NATO is realised under the auspices of the Partnership for Peace, and in line with the National Assembly Resolution on the Protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of December 2007. Following the formal reception, i.e. the signing of the framework document on 14 December 2006, on 5 September 2007, a presentation document envisioning the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with NATO was submitted through almost all established co-operation mechanisms. In this connection, it can be concluded that the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with NATO, under the auspices of the Partnership for Peace programme, intensive and content, and the agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other participating countries in the Partnership for Peace Programme, on the status of their forces, the so-called SOFA Partnership for Peace, the Agreement, with additional protocols whose confirmation is proposed, constitutes a basic mechanism for defining the privileges, engagement and immunities of members of one Member State of the SOFA Partnership for Peace of the Agreement, in the territory of another Member State of that Agreement. Full implementation of SOFA Partnership for Peace of the Agreement allows smooth military co-operation and, above all, with regard to the preparation and realization of military exercises and the building of the necessary capacity to engage in multinational operations. Employment in certain mechanisms, established under the auspices of the Partnership for Peace Programme, as well as the transit of military forces through the territory of signatories states and the provision of the necessary logistics support by the host country. The accession of SOFA to the Partnership for Peace of the Agreement is one of the priorities of the Republic of Serbia in the process of engagement in the Partnership for Peace Programme, precisely for reasons, which so far shows that this agreement together with the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and NATO, which refers to security information concluded in Brussels in 2008, provides optimal co-operation with NATO, aimed at supporting the reform of the defence system and achieving interoperability of the Serbian Army for engagement in multinational operations. The members of the SOFA Partnership for Peace Agreement are the Member States of the Partnership for Peace Programme, and the main objective is to enable all its accessions to apply directly the provisions of the agreement between the members of the North Atlantic Treaty on the status of their forces, signed in London on 19 June 1951. In this regard, we note that the Republic of Serbia, as well as most of the Member States of this Agreement, during the signing of the SOFA Partnership for Peace of the Agreement, and in agreement with the Government's conclusion of 6 December 2012, handed over the depositary, i.e. to the Government of the United States, reserves to Article 7. Agreement between the members of the North Atlantic Treaty on the status of their forces. Those reserves relate to the inability to accept and apply the jurisdiction of the military authorities of the sending State, in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in the case of disciplinary or criminal liability, and in accordance with Article 7. Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty on the status of their forces. The transfer of a person, i.e. the possibility of exercising criminal jurisdiction over members of a force, i.e. a civilian component or a maintenance person by the competent authorities of the sending State, provided that the sending State does not impose a death penalty for the execution of the work. The Law on the Confirmation of SOFA Partnership for Peace of the Agreement is in accordance with the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, as well as the Vienna Convention on Contract Law. I would like to conclude, in my statement, that the Republic of Serbia is among the last countries to join the agreement under consideration. Otherwise, the SOFA Partnership for Peace Agreement along with 28 NATO members joined 16 partner countries. Among them are the Russian Federation, Ukraine, BiH, Macedonia and Montenegro. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the light of this, I propose that the National Assembly vote a law confirming the agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other States involved in a partnership for peace, on the status of their forces with the add-on protocol of the agreement and the next add-on protocol to the agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31311	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Mr. Bogdanovic? (Goran Bogdanovic, from the city: I am reporting by... We haven't gotten to that part yet. Thank you. Does the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Alexander Chotric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31312	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPO-DHSS parliamentary group will vote in voting day to confirm our country's agreement with NATO, and we believe that now and at the right time to open a debate on our country's eventual membership in this country, not only military, but political alliance, because the SPO believes that, in the context of the announced reform of the political system in our country, it is necessary to discuss this issue rationally, thoughtfully, seriously, pragmatically, regardless of emotion, regardless of the memories that will remain forever in 1999, for an unfair, illegal NATO intervention against the then SRJ. We remember the good of the victims, the enormous material destruction, but we can't live forever in the past. That is what our history and reconciliation process with the countries we once had conflicts with, and today we have good relations. This is also referred to by examples of other countries that today, regardless of their past and numerous conflicts, work primarily within the EU and this military-political alliance. Since our country's main foreign policy goal is Serbia's entry into NATO, into the EU, we do not think that these two issues should be separated, as most NATO countries are also EU members. Does this mean that we should treat each of these countries differently as an EU member, differently as a NATO member? This is particularly true of the EU's leading countries. It is illogical to say, Germany, France, Great Britain, Italy or countries that we consider friendly like Greece, Romania, Slovakia or the Czech Republic are friendly if they are EU members, and they are not if they are NATO members. As I said, NATO is not only a military but also a political alliance and all the former countries of Central Eastern Europe before joining the EU, they joined NATO. Countries of the former Yugoslavia such as Slovenia and Croatia, or our neighbours such as Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania first became NATO members, it was a lobby for EU accession. So we need to look at the facts, statistics saying that from the moment those countries became NATO members, the economic and political internal stability of those countries has increased, their international position has been strengthened. There has been a significant increase in foreign investment, social product growth, exports from these countries, a decrease in inflation. This has also enabled a higher employment rate, thus making higher profits and pensions, i.e. what is the main objective of each economy, which is a sensitive improvement in the living standard of the population. In the SPO, we believe that joining this Western collective security alliance should be Serbia's goal, given the situation in our environment. Montenegro and Macedonia have clearly declared their foreign-political goals, joining NATO, and as we can see, NATO has long since been taboo in neighbouring BiH, including Republika Srpska President Milorad Dodik has increasingly announced that it will not oppose BiH's entry into NATO. What is particularly important to us is that our country would be much easier to meet the criteria for joining NATO than the EU, and that would allow us both full membership faster and under easier circumstances in the EU. If we insist on self-proclaimed military neutrality, we risk becoming a desert island in this part of Europe, given the ambitions of our neighbours, given that some of the countries of the region have long or earlier become NATO members and we believe that they are not the so-called advocates. "military neutrality" since it is not achieved by assembly declarations, but by international recognition. Of course, that would be the answer, and to all those who advocate re-emerged in military adventures, to "win" NATO again, and in fact we saw what brought us conflict with the international community, what brought us conflict with NATO, that we were in fact losing our territory and our population, that there was economic devastation, that a large number of people had left our country because of all this. It is time to break this series of confrontations, for Serbia to strengthen its position in partnership for peace, for us to sign such agreements to build bridges of co-operation and friendship both with the environment and with military alliances. Of course, it does not exclude co-operation with our other traditional allies, with countries with which we have also had good political and military and economic relations in the past. I would also like to say something about those who believe that we would "issue" or "believe" the Russian Federation. I'm saying that if our country entered NATO, Russia would only get one more friend, one more ally to NATO, and no more opponents. As the minister said in his address, and Russia is a signator of these agreements that we will ratify. In addition, NATO and Russia signed an agreement in Brussels as early as 1997 to institutionalise and commit their versatile relations to mutual co-operation in order to create a stable, secure, undivided continent based on partnership and mutual interest. Of course, we too need to handle our national and national interests first and then, of course, together. Let me just say that this NATO-Russia partnership was strengthened in 2002 by creating Russian-NATO councils. Serbia all but if it wanted to be a member of the Eurasian Union and the relevant collective security systems based on these principles, it could not be. This was unequivocally confirmed by Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin himself in talks with our foreign minister when he said that Serbia and Russia share thousands of kilometers and that there is actually no land border and that all of this points to other forms of co-operation. Among us are NATO countries that can at any moment shut down land crossings, sky above their territory and that all we would possibly sign with Russia remains just a dead letter on paper. On the other hand, we must not risk staying a desert island in this part of Europe, given that Montenegro will be most likely to become a full NATO member for the coming years, that our neighbours are on the east side of both Bulgaria and Romania and Hungary and Croatia and Albania. I want to point out that, regardless of this current conflict between Ukraine, Russia and its Western partners, the further development of the situation in the world, the threats of peace, terrorism, new security challenges, the need to preserve democracy, respect for human rights, political, ideological, religious and national diversity, so in this part of the world, they really point to Russia and NATO's co-operation, of course, and us. We believe that to join NATO and people most interested in this form of joining our country with this military and political alliance, which are representatives of the Serbian Army, officers, who know all the advantages Serbia would get from this co-operation. Serbia has been working very successfully with NATO structures since 2000, and through this co-operation, our military has practically already accepted NATO standards, resulting in the signing of an agreement that has equated Serbia in this respect with all members of the Alliance. By joining NATO, Serbia will be able to participate in making the most important political and security decisions of today's world. This gives us an opportunity to sit at the table with other NATO representatives equally, and I will point out that as many as 28 countries are currently in NATO, with a tendency to increase the number. I will also remind you that in the Partnership for Peace with NATO other than our country, except Russia, there are as many as 11 countries in the former Soviet Union. It is time to step out of that period when others have decided about us and we sit at the table with other military and political factors, because there is no vote in the North Atlantic Alliance and the body that makes the most important decisions called the North Atlantic Council. So that's not what decisions are made most of them. Decisions shall be taken by consensus of all Member States, therefore, by consensus. No decision can be made that does not oblige a country that has not voted in favour of that decision. This enables each member of the Alliance to maintain full sovereignty and responsibility in making its own decisions, which is extremely important to us. I think there is no doubt that Serbia's future is in a natural and logical environment -- the European Union and NATO. In this House, we agree that our main foreign policy goal is to become a member state of the EU. So there's no party that doesn't stand for it. That's what most Serbian citizens are for. If so, if most EU countries are in NATO at the same time, we believe that they should also seek to join this alliance. That is what our past points to, because Serbia in the second half of the 19th century, in the early 20th century, is the greatest possible advance in political, constitutional, legislative, diplomatic, economic, military, scientific, technical, any field, achieved precisely by seeing Western countries, working with them. By the early 1990s, Serbia, or then Yugoslavia, with the United States, with France, with Great Britain, with most Western countries, had no conflict, no conflict. On the contrary, we were allies in both world wars. Therefore, we should also remind ourselves of some of the facts of our past, which is that after 400 years Serbia gained independence at the Berlin Congress in 1878, with the support of Western countries, which both recognised territorial enlargement and independence and actually received Serbia in the family of European peoples. So Serbia returned to the map of Europe, gained independence, international recognition. The alliance with the countries of the West has just enabled us to win the Balkan and world wars and, in fact, in 1918, by creating the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, for the first time in history practically all Southern Slovenians, and thus Serbs, are in one country. These are just some, and in fact there are a number of reasons why the SPO-DHSS parliamentary group will support the agreement on the agenda of our parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31313	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31314	Mr. Chotric, first of all, signing this agreement does not mean any NATO entry, as you said, or approaching NATO. Serbia is war neutral. Serbia wants to build its partnerships and friendships in both the east and the west. You mentioned just before some countries: Austria, Sweden, Finland, they are in the Partnership for Peace, EU members, and they are not NATO members. What is important at the beginning is that this agreement will make it important to facilitate the organisation, to go to peacekeeping missions, to organise new military exercises, so I understand you, but this is only an agreement that will make our functioning and a series of other benefits that the Serbian Army will have in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31315	The word has been issued by Parliamentarian Dr Vladimir Marinkovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31316	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with their team, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this agreement that we are talking about today is in favour of the strategic goal defined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course, and our Parliament, which is European integration and that is regional co-operation. You have a little bit before very well and concisely explained in which direction it is going and which are the benefits for our country. I would agree with you here, and I would only add that this agreement is in favour of ensuring the rule of law, the security of our borders, the favourable environment for foreign investment, the fight against crime and corruption, which is going to be and which has been very difficult so far and for which, in any case, we do not have enough economic resources, but no other resources to bring ourselves out. That's why we need friends, which is why we need partners, as you said a little while ago, yes, our friends from the NATO Alliance, but also friends from all other partner countries with whom our military and our state are cooperating. In any case, this agreement will contribute and allow us to modernise our army at a lower price, to fight crime and corruption and to convince foreign investors that their money is safe in Serbia. Even if this agreement were in favour of getting closer to NATO's alliance, I would personally as an MP of the SDPS have no objection, because I believe that besides the military, in addition to the security benefits, we would also have economic benefits, benefits concerning public diplomacy and the generally better positioning of our country in the world. I agree with that, and I support you in that you have very well recognised until 2012, when this Agreement was signed, that immediately after the IPAP was signed, you have embarked on the implementation of the Action Plan, which was defined by the IPAP, and very soon thereafter we have set out to realise, talk and discussion in Parliament on this agreement. What is a fact, respected ministers and ladies and gentlemen MPs, the latest surveys speak of it, and I think that this is a serious issue for discussion in our parliament, but also for the professional public, that in 2012, according to research, as many as 58% of our citizens felt that a country like Serbia, a country in this regional environment, could not develop well and quality without association, or without membership in some kind of security and economic integration. Today, Mr. Minister, according to the latest survey, which was done at the end of 2014, 67% and in line, probably with public opinion and their opinions and views, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you are personally working on making all these benefits, which we can have through these agreements, realising. Finally, 58% of our citizens question where they would move if they had to do so, which are countries, these are EU countries 58%, so those countries that are NATO members, and the United States 12%. When it comes to the Russian Federation, that percentage of the statement is 3%. So, to be clear, the IPAP issue, you have repeatedly explained it, not only about security, but also about judicial reform, about improving human and minority rights, investment, stability in the region, and the prime minister himself has defined as his own strategic goal, regional integration and regional co-operation. Finally, I think regional security and regional integration in the security sector is what will define the development of both our countries and our region in the future. Without a common policy, without concrete and quality co-operation in the field of security between all Western Balkan countries, we cannot think about new investments, but we cannot think about subliming our resources and our potentials and the performance of our companies in third markets and our success in this job. What Sweden has, for example, defined, which was mentioned a little while ago, through the benefits of the IPAP agreement, this agreement that we are talking about today is filling certain holes in the security system, but also huge savings in terms of costs. This is an example of joint water patrolling, a common fight against cyber crime, and what is most important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, each agreement, every kind of approach leads to us reducing security costs or sharing them with our friends and partners in the Partnership for Peace and NATO Alliance, and thus we will have more money for education, more money for pensioners, and thus the Government of the Republic of Serbia can lead a socially responsible policy which is one of the main definitions within the framework of economic development or the overall social development of our country. When Sweden can have these benefits, when it was ready to do so, I don't think it should be a big question for Serbia and I think that in this House we will have, on this issue, a consensus, because I don't see that any of our colleagues have any major objections to this kind of agreement and to the approximation and partnership with the NATO alliance. What is also very important, and what this Agreement will contribute to, is the fight against terrorism, arms control and the fight against cyber crime. In any case, today we live in a global, very difficult environment that is threatened by various terrorist groups. We have a large area of Levanta, almost all over, in the Middle East, war facts, 300 km from Europe in Libya, in Benghazi, that whole part of the coast of Libya is controlled by the Islamic state and 300 km from Europe and of course it's natural and of course we should help our US friends and partners fight this monster. This Agreement is one of these aspects of providing logistics and opportunities for our co-operation to be better, but also for this fight to be as short as possible, as effective as possible for the benefit of citizens, not only of the Middle East, but also of the citizens of Europe and the whole world. I'm glad you recognized that. I'm glad you have and to define very effective and real moves when it comes to security, because the security sector is something that defines all other policies. No security, no insurance, no stability in the area, no political stability, no economic stability, and therefore there are no preconditions for the well-being of our country's citizens. I must point out that this way our defense system would be more interoperable, more modern, more efficient. We'll establish how much information I have, a regional centre for national and regional needs. We will have the opportunity for scientific co-operation, crisis management systems and emergency planning, which is very important for our country's economic and security policy. I'll end up with what's the issue of all the issues when we talk about security, and that's energy security. I support and commend the efforts of the prime minister himself, the Minister of Energy, as well as the entire government when it comes to energy security, diversification of energy policy. This is something we have to do and I think that the meetings and communication that the Prime Minister had in the United States, with top officials, starting with the main decision-makers, such as Susan Rice, such as Victoria Newland, Congressman Elliot Engels, Senator John McCain, will bear the fruit of agreeing with companies, such as Friport and others, can lead to the fact that in the next few years we can provide gas supplies from the US via a terminal in Krk, which, after 2019, will provide energy stability and energy security to our country in a good and quality way. Of course, I also have to mention the efforts of General Electricity and other American companies that invest a lot here and that have one completely open space and a hand in terms of renewable energy sources, because our potentials can ultimately result in more than 30% of our energy needs being drained from these renewable energy sources. I think that third pillar of co-operation with the United States and how we need to take advantage of co-operation in the area of security, investment. It is, of course, energy, as well as doing everything we can to have energy diversification, energy security and to have the best companies that work here and that bring new technologies, that bring new knowledge and thus provide preconditions for our country's economic stability, but also what is most important energy security for all our citizens. Finally, in this context and in this area, it will show how capable the governments are and are ready to provide 21st century conditions for prosperity, economic development and new employment, and security, in particular energy security are the main preconditions for this. Thanks again for all this stuff you're doing. You have the full support of the SDPS, we will continue to support this policy that contributes to political stability, security, attracting foreign investment in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31317	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31318	I thank the chairman. Mr Minister, the SOFA agreement is a major step in Serbia's activities under the Partnership for Peace, as you said it was signed by 28 NATO member states and 14 partner countries, including Serbia and BiH and Russia. We need to take advantage of all possible co-operation opportunities that we have within the framework of the Partnership for Peace. Serbia signed the agreement as early as January 2014, but does not apply it and therefore faces numerous difficulties in realising certain activities with countries, participants of this programme, which primarily refer to the engagement of our army in the concept of raising functional and operational capacity to participate in multinational operations, and therefore provide reasons for its adoption by an urgent procedure. Why is this agreement important? It is important because it will allow smooth military co-operation between countries, signatories of the agreement, in particular with regard to the preparation and implementation of military exercises. It is important because it will enable the building of the necessary capacity for the engagement of our army in multinational operations and is important because this agreement allows the Serbian Army officer to be appointed to the positions of staff elements of the partnership, which represents a significant form of co-operation under the programme. As a member of Serbia's permanent delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I can say that Serbia's picture in the world is changing, as can be seen at our meetings that we have twice a year. First of all, thanks to the reform processes, in all segments of society, the countries of the international community recognise Serbia as a country that is a pillar of regional stability and contributes to the preservation of stability in the Western Balkans. Such a consulting decision by Serbia in the region contributes to the constant strengthening of international confidence in Serbia. What is very important is that Serbia wants to be a reliable, predictable Alliance partner within the Partnership for Peace, in order to preserve peace and stability together in the region and at the same time sees a space for further co-operation within the Partnership for Peace. It is very important that NATO respects Serbia's specificities, compared to all other members and partners of the Alliance, while Serbia recognises the importance and role NATO plays in the regional security system, especially in relation to the preservation of the security of Serbs in KIM, whose guarantee is NATO right now. Serbia is militaryly neutral and does not seek NATO membership, but sees room for further improvement of co-operation under the "Partnership for Peace" mechanisms available. I therefore believe that in this debate today on the SOFA agreement it is important for the citizens of Serbia to point out some important information which, in my opinion, should be spoken publicly, especially when such laws are on the agenda in parliament. Serbia has concluded three agreements with NATO, an Agreement on the Security of Information, a Treaty on the adoption of the NATO codification system and the SOFA agreement we are discussing today. In addition, a military representation of the Republic of Serbia was established on the NATO mission, as well as a NATO military liaison office in Belgrade. Our co-operation with the Alliance has also contributed to the reopening of the upper layer of airspace above KIM, and I think that's very important for normalising the entire airspace. The co-operation of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army with NATO takes place through several mechanisms, primarily in the Partnership for Peace programme, but we also have an individual programme of partnership and co-operation, the planning and review process, the concept of operational capabilities, a programme to improve the education process in the area of defence and a programme to build Serbia's military integrity. The adoption of the Individual Action Plan IPAP on 15 January this year is a qualitative step in the process of further co-operation, which from our perspective represents the expansion of a political dialogue and represents the access of Serbia's state institutions to integrated access of Serbia's state institutions in further joint communication. I expect the implementation of the IPAP to contribute to further co-operation with the Alliance, the development of the defence system, even better the establishment of interoperability of the Serbian Army, as well as standardisation and intensive building of military capacities to contribute to peace and stability, as well as better co-operation at bilateral level with NATO members. With regard to participation in multinational operations, I must say that the Serbian Army of the UN is recognised as a leader in the region and I think it is very important that whenever we discuss military laws, we point out that. During 2014, a total of 539 members of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army were sent to UN and EU operations. Of these, in seven UN operations, 502 members are currently participating in seven UN missions and three EU missions, with the largest engagement of 177 members in Lebanon, and an EU mission to the Central African Republic is planned. I think today's debate is very important to mention the letter of support that the American congressmen sent to Serbia, and also to our Prime Minister and Secretary of State John Kerri, on June 26th of this year. The congressmen met with Prime Minister Vukic during his recent stay in the United States, and Congressman Rora Baher also spoke with the prime minister in Belgrade, followed by congressman support. From that letter, I'm going to point out only two very important information, or two details. First, it literally writes – Serbia's government shows continued commitment to dialogue and implementation of an agreement between Belgrade and Pristina and the Serbian Army is working to integrate members of the Serbian Army and police into 10 UN and EU missions. Serbia's participation makes them the largest regional contributors to preserve peace, and the eighth is the EU's largest, the letter says in a letter to US controversy John Kerri. I cannot at this time, Mr. Minister, without mentioning that I am expecting, and you are on the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs here in Parliament said that by the end of the year Serbia will have the first wife of the general, I know that you know how important it is and I believe that what you said on the board, that is, by the end of the year we will really have the first wife of the general. I think we've done a lot in applying resolution 13/12/5, in applying the Action Plan, and I think we should move on in that direction, which I don't doubt. You said that Serbia had two reserves on Article 7. I just want to say because of the citizens of Serbia that the same reserves were directed by Austria and Finland and that it is important to point out that citizens know that no army can enter Serbia under this agreement unless we allow it and if there is no decision to do so. So every time we sign these agreements, there are misunderstandings, and I think it's important to make it clear in the debates that citizens will be informed to the end. In the end, I would like to say that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support the SOFA agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31319	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31320	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, today we are discussing the ratification of a very important agreement which, at the same time with the accompanying protocols, regulates certain relations between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the participating countries of the Partnership for Peace, primarily in the matter of the status of the armed forces of these countries. So that's why, and our country. I will remind you that the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with NATO was initiated during the term of office of Serbian President Boris Tadic. In fact, accession to the Partnership for Peace programme was launched at the NATO summit in Riga in late November 2006. The formal entry into the programme was marked by the signing of a framework document by the president of the Republic of Serbia on 14 December 2006, in Brussels, while the presentation document was submitted in September 2007. The document envisions the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with NATO through almost all established co-operation mechanisms. In addition to the individual partnership programme and the planning and review process, the special form of co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with NATO is the Serbia-NATO Group for Defence Reform established in 2006 to provide support for implementation of reforms in the Alliance's defence system and states that are members of it. This programme initiative is also a framework for building the necessary capacity of EU member states which are not members of NATO to participate actively in the EU's common security and defence policy. Also, a new document in the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and NATO is the opening of a mission with NATO and military representation in its composition, as well as increasing co-operation with NATO, NATO committees, and working groups. This agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other participating countries in the Partnership for Peace on the status of their forces was made in Brussels in June 1995 with two additional protocols. The essence of this document is to clearly define the mechanisms, privileges of engagement and immunity of members of the forces of one Member State of the agreement on the territory of another Member State of the agreement. The application of this Agreement allows for smooth military co-operation. This co-operation is reflected, above all, in the preparation and implementation of military exercises, but also in the engagement and multinational operations, engagements in certain mechanisms established under the auspices of the Partnership for Peace programme. Also, no less important is defining the transit of military forces through the territory of signatories states. Security of the necessary logistics, support by host countries is also one of the important clauses of this agreement, i.e. belonging annex. Access to the agreement is useful for the Republic of Serbia and the process of engagement in the Partnership for Peace programme. The agreement, together with an agreement on security of information, allows optimal co-operation with NATO in defence reform and further strengthens the capacity of the Republika Srpska Army to engage in multinational operations. In previous engagement in activities under the Partnership for Peace programme, the Republika Srpska Army has faced significant difficulties in realising certain activities with NATO member states and participants in the programme. This specifically refers to engagement in the concept of operational capabilities as an inevitable mechanism for building the capacity of declared forces to participate in multinational operations. This mechanism is intensively used by all participants of the Partnership for Peace programme, which are members of the EU and are not NATO members in order to prepare their forces for an adequate contribution to strengthening the European common security and defence policy. The agreement will also allow for the appointment of an officer of the Republika Srpska Army in positions of staff elements of the partnership, which is an extremely significant form of co-operation. Therefore, the MP group "Boris Tadic SDS, Together for Serbia, Green" believes that joining this agreement allows for a higher level of international military co-operation, more effective implementation of the procedure necessary for participation in international exercises in the Republic of Serbia and abroad, raising the operational and functional capabilities of the Serbian Army in multinational operations, and most importantly, our country is preparing our own military forces to actively contribute to strengthening European, foreign and security policies and co-operation with members of the Partnership for Peace. For these reasons, which I have cited, the parliamentary group "Boris Tadic, Together for Serbia, Green" will support the ratification of this agreement. Mr. Minister, you've said very little about the law itself, especially Article 5. A bill containing the reserves of the Republic of Serbia under Article 7 of the agreement between the NATO Member States on the status of their forces. So this is about the inability to accept the jurisdiction of the courts of the sending state in Serbia. Furthermore, explain, first of all, to the Members of Parliament and to the public Article 7(a), i.e. The reserve that the Republic of Serbia will hand over members of the forces and civil components of the government to the sending state, provided that the state does not impose a death sentence in the exercise of criminal jurisdiction. So I want to hear from you a detailed explanation of this norm and these reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31321	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31322	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is ahead of us with a bill of law that actually represents a continuation of all the activities that have been going on since 2001. Practically, they culminated in 2006 when Serbia then joined the Partnership for Peace. Later, as you said, in 2007, when a presentation document was presented. This year, when an individual partnership programme with the North Atlantic Alliance has finally been adopted and today we are adopting a bill defining Serbia's relations, or above all, to say, Serbia's armies in need, I personally think, and the DS thinks so, both the armies and the states of Serbia. It is important to stress that this agreement, as you said, has 16 partners of the North Atlantic Alliance. Among these partners are virtually all countries in an environment that are not NATO members, including Russia and Serbia, put themselves in line with those countries that are aware of the need to co-operate more closely with NATO primarily in their own interests. What is very important to say is that this agreement as such will certainly cause the public interest and some structures in our society that are simply aporeori v and I think it should be stressed that regardless of what the agreement says, the NATO forces and forces of the Partnership for Peace will have free and smooth movement through Serbia, it is necessary to stress that no one will be able to enter our countries with their units without being invited or be invited to agree. So, all those who will comment today that today we have practically opened the door for anyone to pass through Serbia in a way that is not allowed by our Constitution and our laws will be false. Simply, this bill, namely this agreement, makes it extremely clear that other military forces will only be able to participate in Serbia on our call. That call may also be for military training, but it can also be addressed in the event of elemental accidents, which we had the opportunity to see happening. How much rights and obligations are given by representatives of other armies in Serbia, so much rights and obligations will be given by representatives of our military when they are in other countries and should also be stressed because it is known that our military has been working more and more together with NATO member states and member states of the Partnership for Peace since 2000, and that we have a very large number of military exercises both in the territory of our Republic and in the territory and beyond our country's borders. It is very important to stress that the Serbian Army has practically three missions. In addition to the country's defence, these are multinational operations, participation in multinational operations, as well as assistance to the civilian population in the event of natural disasters. You said that in this way, in this agreement, we will allow smooth military co-operation in raising capacity for the second mission, which is participation in multinational operations and we fully agree with that, and I think it is extremely important, especially given that Serbia today is, as we said, the seventh or eighth distributor in the UN from Europe. I believe it is very positive, but I also believe that through this agreement and through participation in multinational operations there is an increased operational capacity, i.e. an increased operational capacity of the Serbian Army, which is extremely important. All these young men, officers, officers, who have the opportunity to practice with NATO forces, means with the strongest powers, the most powerful military alliance in the world, and at the same time have the opportunity to participate in peace missions around the world, I remind, on a voluntary basis, when they return they have more experience and can be used for more serious things and, God forbid, question, first question, or first mission, which is the defense of our country. It is important to stress that Serbia is making a step towards further integration into a collective security system with EU partners. This collective security system does not necessarily have to be NATO, it can also be a system concerning the EU itself, and that is something that the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army contributes to easier opening of chapters and negotiations, because if you have had a chance to see, most recently, five congressmen have sent a letter to the President of the United States and to the Secretary of State in which they stress that America should give strong support to Serbia on European integrations, and as the first item derived from this letter and that is stressed as important that Serbia in military relations raised that level extremely high and that Serbia today is an exporter of security, unlike some time ago. What I'm saying is that with this agreement we're also raising military-military capacity, we're raising opportunities for all three missions, including the country's defence and participation in peacekeeping missions, but we're also helping civilian populations in the event of elemental disasters, but we're also raising the external-diplomatic capacity of our country which, unfortunately, we're not using enough. I don't want to talk about it, but I don't think our Foreign Ministry is aware of the capacity that the Serbia Army is building today, because it shouldn't happen that we are in a situation where there's some resolution about Serbs or Serbia, and that, in doing so, not through our friends with whom we're taking part in missions, we don't have adequate support and we don't have an adequate opportunity to influence that from the very beginning. I remind you, the DS has always supported this firm co-operation. I believe that today we will have absolute agreement here regarding this agreement and that may be even more important than the agreement itself. The fact that there was a heated debate here in parliament when we participated in peace missions, but when we brought some other agreements, and that the situation today was relaxed, says that we are all aware that this is primarily a benefit for the state of Serbia, that regardless of those unforgettable days of the 1990s, which, of course, no one wants to forget, we must move forward because of the generations to come. I'm sure this is one of the things that's totally raising our capacities. In that sense, the DS will support this agreement in the voting day. We think it's very good and it's important to stress that this is practically a type-approval agreement. We can't change anything in it, we can sign it or we can't sign it. If all the countries in the environment have signed it, if such an agreement has been signed by the Russian Federation, which is very important for some part of the citizenship in Serbia, it should be said that we are approaching a collective agreement in which there are 28 NATO member states and 16 partner countries within the Partnership for Peace. I stress once again, you have full support for such a law and you will always have support for things that concern improving the operational capabilities of the Serbian Army, improving the general standards in the country for things that bring the possibility of Serbia on an international scale being with far more respect than other countries, than it was in some earlier time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31323	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go, Mr. Gas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31324	I thank Mr Sutanovac for the opportunity to explain, as you have tried and done in fact that the stories that have been published in the media, that this agreement allows foreign armies to enter the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to use the potential of the Serbian Army without any call, means to explain to the general public, without calling the Republic of Serbia, no one can use any potential in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, nor can it go uninterrupted through the Republic of Serbia. It is important, because in the previous period, a very full story was that some foreign NATO member states would be able without question to use the potentials of the Serbian Army and to possess barracks, facilities, etc. Thank you for that. Article 5, Mr Bogdanovic, clearly defines what the reserves of the Republic of Serbia are and he says – accepting the jurisdiction of the military authorities of the sending country in accordance with Article 7. The agreement between the Member States of the North-Atlantic Treaty on the status of their forces in the case of the Republic of Serbia cannot be applied to the exercise of jurisdiction of the courts of the sending State in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so as not to read to you until the end. To explain, if the sending state and its member commits a criminal offence for which death penalty has been threatened in his country, the state of Serbia will not deliver that member to that other country, because there is no death penalty under our legislation. In that sense, I think you understand the clarification of that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31325	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, MP Vanja Vukic. Here you go, Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31326	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of Gasic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as many times so far, and today, this debate on this law and the vote on the confirmation of this agreement, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia raises the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in the international community and the world. The Republic of Serbia has so far signed many international agreements with many countries, both from the east and from the west, agreements that promote economic co-operation, diplomatic relations, trade agreements, agreements in the area of police co-operation, etc. This time, we are also discussing in the voting day, and I hope that we will support this multilateral agreement in the area of security with the agreed protocols. I am pleased that almost all MPs, if not all MPs of this call, will vote as SPS for this law, i.e. to confirm the Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other participating countries in the Partnership for Peace on the Status of their Forces, with an additional protocol of the agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States participating in the Partnership for Peace on the Status of their Forces and the next additional protocol for the implementation of this Agreement, signed by the previous Defence Minister, Mr Neboja Rodic, under the authority of the Government in 2014. I must say, it is eight years after Serbia's accession to the Partnership for Peace. After NATO was formed in 1949, 45 years later, in Brussels, a programme for peace was launched by many countries: Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Moldova, the Republic of Ireland, Montenegro, Russia, etc. The Republic of Serbia joined the programme in 2006, signing a framework document in Brussels, leading the call to the Republic of Serbia from the NATO summit, held in Riga at the end of November 2006. I must point out that at that moment, there were some parties in power who today advocate against this kind of agreement. The accession of the Partnership for Peace programme enables easier and more thorough reorganisation and modernisation of Serbia's Army and the Ministry of Defence through various visions and mechanisms and co-operation with NATO, such as the individual partnership and co-operation programme, through which members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, participate in various seminars, courses, conferences and trainings, acquire new knowledge and skills and share experiences with members of the NATO Armed Forces and the Partnership for Peace, then a programme to build integrity, which NATO seeks to confirm its commitment to the idea of strengthening good administration in the defence and security sector. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian High Level Army are taking part in the work of various committees and working groups where various current issues are discussed which are of interest to the joint co-operation of NATO members of the Partnership for Peace, such as Political Party Committee, Conference of National Directors and Arms, Committee on Codification, Committee of Chiefs of Military Medical Services, Logistic Committee, Committee on Standardisation, Committee on Advisory, Command and Control, Working Groups of the Military Co-operation Committee, Working Group on Movement and Transport, Working Group on Medical Care, etc. Then there is the process of planning and reviewing, the concept of operational capabilities through which training and evaluation of advanced units is carried out according to NATO standards. Individual partnership action plan which represents co-operation on policy issues and security policy issues, defence, security and military issues, public information, science, environment and emergency planning, as well as administrative and resource security issues. Finally, there is the Trust Fund of the Partnership for Peace programme, which was donated to Serbia 1.7m to destroy anti-infantry mines in 2005, then 9.6m euros in 2007 with the aim of supporting the employment of Serbian military members in the civil sector, etc. Also, there are special areas of co-operation between Serbia and NATO through Guru Serbia -- NATO for defence reform, then co-operation on the ground between the Serbia-KFOR military and the Defence Education Programme. All these forms of co-operation contribute, as I have already said, to the modernisation and reform of our armed forces, which is also contributed by the NATO Military Liaison Office, here in Belgrade, as well as by the Military Representation in the Mission of the Republic of Serbia to NATO. The agreement, along with the Security of Information Agreement, also contributes to reforming Serbia's Army's defence and interoperability system for engagement in multinational operations, which also significantly raises the reputation of Serbia's military and the Republic of Serbia in the world. The agreement, drawn up in Brussels in 1995, is a basic mechanism for defining privileges, for recruiting immunity of members of one country's forces on the territory of another Member State of this Agreement. This agreement will improve co-operation between NATO member states and the Partnership for Peace, which has been significantly hampered by the failure to sign and the absence of this type of agreement signed eight years after Serbia's accession to the Partnership for Peace programme. As explained in the law, the application of an agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States of participants in the ‘Partnership for Peace’ on the status of their forces with additional protocols allows for smooth military co-operation and, above all, with regard to the application and implementation of military exercises, the building of the necessary capacity to engage in multinational operations, the engagement in individual mechanisms under the auspices of the Partnership for Peace Programme, as well as the transit of military forces through the territory of the signator states and the provision of the necessary logistics support by the host countries. I cannot help but mention Article 5 of this law, which the Republic of Serbia reserves on this agreement, which reads: "Accepting the jurisdiction of the military authorities of the sending State, in accordance with Article 7. The agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty on the status of their forces, in the case of the Republic of Serbia, cannot be applied to the exercise of jurisdiction of the courts of the sending State on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia will hand over members of the forces, i.e. the civilian component or their maintenance persons to the authorities of the sending State, in accordance with Article 7(5)(a), provided that the sending State does not give the death penalty when committing criminal jurisdiction, in accordance with the provisions of that member. “ In this way, the Republic of Serbia protects its interests, the interests of its citizens and members of the Serbian Army. In the end, I would say, as an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, that the Socialist Party of Serbia in the voting day will fully support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31327	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic, the authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party. Here you go, Mrs. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31328	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Ministry of Defence, today it is indeed a pleasure to talk about this bill that confirms the agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other countries involved in the Partnership for Peace on the Status of their Forces, because, as could be heard with representatives of all political parties in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this bill is being approved with possible suggestions or minimal objections. The Republic of Serbia was invited to join the Partnership for Peace programme at the NATO summit in Riga in November 2006, and a framework document was signed in December. In September 2007, a presentation document was submitted, which in fact specifically envisioned Serbia's co-operation with NATO through almost all established co-operation mechanisms. This is very important, for us to be involved in all the mechanisms that exist within the "Partnership for Peace" and in co-operation with NATO. In addition, a special form of co-operation with NATO is also the Serbia-NATO Group for Defence Reform, which has provided support since 2006 in implementing reforms in the NATO and its members' defence systems. This strengthens and builds the necessary capacities of non-NATO member states, so that they can actively participate in a harmonised EU security and defence policy, because this is very important in this current situation when they are really threatening different security risks across the planet. It should be mentioned that a NATO mission covering and military representation is open as part of the mission. At the same time, co-operation with NATO committees and different working groups has been growing. All this data suggests that our mutual co-operation between Serbia and NATO is increasingly intense and more content. That's what's most important, that in this whole story, we're not only part of the agreement on paper, but we're working intensively, and that could be heard in the presentations of my colleagues. So we're working as closely as possible on detailing the contents of our activities. This agreement is in line with these tendencies. By confirming this agreement, we are in fact confirming and accepting this primary mechanism which defines both the privileges and the engagement and immunity of members of the forces of one Member State of the agreement on the territory of another Member State of the agreement. The full implementation of this Agreement provides for uninterrupted military co-operation, and the military co-operation provided for in this Agreement includes the preparation and implementation of military exercises and the building of the necessary capacity to engage in multinational operations. It was often heard in public, especially in the last days when we discussed decisions on the engagement of our members in the framework of multinational operations, that this is a good direction and that the efforts of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Serbia have been praised as part of engagements in multinational operations. We are also witnessing that various diplomatic missions are making special efforts in Serbia to cooperate more and more closely within the framework of multinational operations. The countries from which diplomatic representatives come are extremely pleased with the engagement of our members in multinational operations, and we should continue to do so. In addition to engagements in various multinational operations, it is also very important that we engage in different mechanisms within the framework of the Partnership for Peace. This has also been shown in cases of floods and various natural disasters that have hit our region. Our engagement and signing of this agreement will allow us, by timely warning of these mechanisms, to have the opportunity to use them. So their equipment and their members and different early warning systems. The transit of military forces through the territory of the states of signatories is also one of the forms of military co-operation and security of the necessary logistics of the host state. I would like to remind all those who doubt the sakes of this agreement, i.e. in the application of this agreement, that joining this agreement is one of Serbia's priorities in the process of engagement in the Partnership for Peace Programme, because so far experience has shown that, with the Security of Information Agreement between Serbia and NATO, we, together with this agreement, are truly achieving an optimal level of co-operation aimed at reforming the defence system. Also, what is very important, this is how we achieve the interoperability of the Serbian Army to engage in multinational operations, and it is very important to achieve interoperability because this is the only way we can demonstrate the maximum opportunities of members of the Serbian Army. Interoperability actually means harmonising different systems in different countries in different sectors of security. So it is also necessary to bring technology, technology, equipment, training methods and preparation of members into line with the other system that is now operating in the environment in which Serbia is. Members of this SOFA Peace Partnership Agreement can directly apply SOFA NATO provisions. And there we have actually found the possibility that the state should make certain reserves, because the provision of reserves to certain provisions of the agreement does not show our absolute dissension or refusal of certain items. They show exactly our very serious and dedicated approach that when we sign something that we're behind and we're standing here, and we've given some reserves because exactly that way, we're as serious and committed as possible, we don't want to agree to anything that's going to come under question afterwards. That's why it should be said right away at the beginning that we have given certain reserves, as a state, to Article 7. The agreement, a NATO member, on the inability to accept the jurisdiction of the courts of the sending State in the territory of Serbia and in case of extradition or surrender of a person, i.e. a member of a force or a civilian, etc. The civilian components within a force or a dependent person are actually spouses or children related to members of the military forces. So, in the case of extradition or a face lecture, in the situation that he was sentenced to death. Because there is no such punishment in our country. This year's funding is not necessary for the implementation of this law. In the coming years, certainly, which is logical, a budget will be planned, in accordance with the degree and manner of implementation of this agreement, but it will certainly be within the borders of the Department of Defence's division, so it will not exceed the envisaged limits. I want to repeat what has been heard several times, because it is important that the citizens of our country know that Serbia is among the last countries to join this agreement, in addition to the 28 NATO members, 16 partner countries have joined. You could hear that there is both the Russian Federation and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia and Montenegro. There are many more details to be discussed under this agreement, but above all in a positive light. I hope that by the end of the day, both speakers and fellow MPs who are registered for discussion will speak in favour of this agreement, but I am sure that we will hear some less positive tones, but I think that too is good. It is this very hall of the Serbian Parliament that we should speak positively and negatively when the laws are at stake, and I do not think they are different portals, media, printed or electronic. I think here, in this place, we should consider whether something is good or bad for the Republic of Serbia, and then a statement follows. During tomorrow, the SNS Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this bill, confirming this agreement as well, as well as the additional two protocols that form part of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31329	Thank you, Mrs. Obradovic. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go, Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31330	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I don't see the minister here, colleague Marija Obradovic sort of announced me. In fact, she said that today you'll probably hear tones that weren't so far, idyllic, pro-NATO tones. Many today spoke of these agreements, as if we are today making a decision on joining the NATO Pact. This is not a decision to join the NATO Pact, although many speakers have really discussed and talked about the advantages of joining the NATO Pact and the fact that, I don't know, if Serbs were to move out of Serbia, that 97% would move into NATO countries. I don't think Serbs should move anywhere, or citizens living in Serbia. And he says, in only three countries, in Russia, for example. It was one of the arguments, not because we need this agreement to be signed, but because we need to join NATO for it. As an MP for the Turnover Movement, I will not vote for this agreement, for at least two reasons. The first and basic reason is the fact that some NATO countries are taking steps these days towards us that cannot be taken as friendly measures. In fact, a NATO Pact country, Hungary, will start working on raising fences towards us in the next ten days, wire fences according to NATO pact standards, according to it, at the top of that fence there will be barbed wire, the length of that fence will be 175km and the state of Serbia will be fenced in that section, isolated from the rest of the world, from the European Union, which colleagues today spoke of as the goal to which we should go through the NATO Pact. Well, that NATO pact, or the NATO Pact countries, unfortunately don't treat us that way. So, this wall will raise, Mr. Gasic, the Hungarian army and the police. Do you know that? Therefore, the Hungarian army and police, members of the NATO Pact, will lift the four-metre high wall at the top with barbed wire and will fence the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, which today adopts an agreement with the NATO pact. We are not in the same position as the other countries that signed this agreement. This agreement came into existence in 1995. A lot of things have changed since then. It is unlikely for no reason that this agreement was the last to be ratified to reach the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Some European Union countries disagree with building a wall, i.e. a fence towards Serbia, and consider it a violation of the basic value of the European Union, they see it as new divisions on the European continent, a new wall that has been brought down in Berlin at the time. That is why I believe that this agreement today, when we expect to raise a wire fence, or wall, by NATO pact countries towards Serbia, should not be accepted. All those who today are advocates of raising this wall, or joining the NATO Pact in this way, ask - what did Mr. Vukic and Jorban agree, since both said only that raising the wall towards the Republic of Serbia, or the fence, will not compromise the good relations between Hungary and Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31331	Mr. Veselinović, I really tried not to interrupt you, but you have to talk about the agenda. I can't tell you anything else and you can listen to me. Please, I've let you go four and a half minutes to speak out of the agenda, but I must instruct you to speak about the agenda. Please. You've got 20 seconds left. Here you go. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31332	So the Turnover Movement will not support this agreement, for the basic reason it comes at the moment when NATO raises, across the Hungarian wall, a fence towards Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31333	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. He has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31334	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 106 and Article 107. Article 106 says - the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The 107th says – a speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. For two reasons, I have advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure before and before, I have said in the previous days that previous speaker Janko Veselinović is representing himself as an MP for the PRECRET Movement. The political party does not exist. It's an association of citizens who didn't participate in the elections. (Janko Veselinović, from town: This is SNS. ) Therefore, he is an MP for the electoral list that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31335	Mr. Veselinović, don't throw it away. Let Mr. Risticevic finish his presentation. Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't throw it away. Mr. Veselinović, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31336	Excuse me, Chairman, may I continue? He is an MP for the election list led by Boris Tadic. This injures the dignity of the National Assembly for very negatively pleading on an agreement signed by Boris Tadic on 14 December 2006. He signed the agreement with the NATO Pact, and now the MP of his electoral list suddenly turned to tubes and here insults the dignity of the National Assembly by taking a completely opposite stance from the one his electoral list bearer had chosen. He was not elected as a member of the Movement for PREKRET, he turned to the tubes, was pictured by some walls, and is now trying to bury everything he did in the previous period with his electoral paper holder, Boris Tadic. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, because of the dignity of the National Assembly, I ask you that, if Janko Veselinovic left his boss, his voter, to sign him as an independent MP in the future, not a member of an NGO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31337	Thank you. On Veselinovic, I don't think I should comment on giving Mr. Risticevic. I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, because I warned Mr. Veselinovic to violate the Rules of Procedure because he is speaking out of the agenda. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. Anyone else? No, I don't. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Veselinović, you won't do what you want. You are trying to replace the thesis again to something that absolutely does not stand, which is that signing this agreement does not mean any approximation to NATO's pact to Serbia. I'll do it again, so please give me a good answer if you want. I will repeat what I said and after the first speaker, Serbia is in this home here said that Serbia is a military neutral state. We want to build our friendships both east and west. This is just another agreement that we are helping the Serbian Army to raise its capacities, its potential, its interoperability to a much higher level, to facilitate our going to joint military exercises in countries that are signatories to this agreement, that our members can enjoy the rights they enjoy and their members when they come to military exercises on the basis of the south, to the AFHO center in Kruševec and a series of joint activities that we have in the course of the year with all these countries that are signatories of the Sofa. As for the wall you talk about so much, you know that Serbia's prime minister clearly said that Serbia wants to build bridges of friendship, that Serbia is clearly defined towards its path to the EU and simply what other countries are, and it has nothing to do with raising that famous wall by Hungary, has nothing to do with either NATO or other partners, it is simply more about one moment present throughout the world, which is a large number of immigrants and protection, but we have said clearly, and at least two more EU countries pass through the road, to the border with Hungary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31339	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. Mr. Veselinović, you have no right to a replica. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: How come I don't have one?) ) Mr. Minister only provided an explanation for your exposure which was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. He's not in the O.R. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31340	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, since I've already said in my injury to the Rules of Procedure what I resent to my previous fellow speaker. So, suddenly they turn and turn in which someone who turns so suddenly and rooted can also get hurt. So, I've already brought up the objections I have, given that the agreements went into effect while they were in power. When they were in power, they didn't mind, they signed everything. Now that they've lost power, now they won't, as the minister said, or what they previously wanted. I think that after being so smart, by the looks of it, the discussion that woke up inside me such a great feeling, because I just can't believe that a professor, a doctor, can speak so wisely. Surprised, positively surprised, turned to mind about a fellow MP... (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What is this? What does this have to do with anything? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31341	Mr. Veselinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31342	But I'm honestly, positively surprised.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31343	Mr. Risticevic said professor, doctor. There are a lot of professors here in the O.R., doctors of MPs. If you recognize yourself as a professor, Doctor, there is nothing I can do to you, Mr. Veselinovic. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Yes, and you are a doctor, I forgot. ) Please continue, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31345	This is a special professor and a doctor who teaches at the state college, and that codification of a professor, a doctor, that characteristic trait is even more pronounced. I said I was positively surprised by the change of attitude and the turn of that MP. From saving yours and his time I'm giving up the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31346	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has a People's Messenger. Excuse me, Dr. Jankov Veseninović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31347	Infringement of Rules 101 to 108. So the previous speaker threatened me, the previous speaker threatened me, physically threatened me to hurt myself. So these are threats you didn't hear or didn't want to hear. Mr. Chairman, this humiliation of the Assembly and this insult of the MPs by the people, and I don't know if he's the head of the SNS Group is being represented and so spoken, without you reacting to that, therefore, to the physical threats of my injuries. Please warn the previous speaker or I will consider this to be the National Assembly and you are personally standing out of this position.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31348	Mr. Veselinović, I am surprised and sure that I would always stand behind every MP who has been threatened. I didn't hear what you heard in this room, and I didn't hear that Mr. Risticevic spoke to you or anyone else in this room heard that. So I apologize to the MPs. Mr. Risticevic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I am advocating Article 103 of Sections 7 and 8 which clearly states that in the case of a Member of the People's Parliament's Parliament, in the case of a position of 1st of this Member, it is required that during which the MP used his right to abuse the right to take away from the total time that belongs to his parliamentary group in the search and the current agenda, if there is any remaining time for the search. You cannot apply this provision so that my previous colleague can abuse the Rules of Procedure. As for some potential threats, I said there are doctors, teachers who make sudden turns and turns. And in that sudden turn and turn, they can also get hurt. So, no threat has been sent, it's simply a law of physics that someone who suddenly turns around and turns around can be in that gymnastics and gets hurt. I don't want that to any fellow MP, especially not the previous speaker. I was saying in general that professors, doctors due to poor condition, and so on when they suddenly turn around, turn around, that metaphorically they might get hurt. So, in such a way, they lose a certain electoral body, the sympathy of voters who go unequivocally towards them. Nothing but figurative, there was no threat. I don't know who recognized it for what reason, but it's his problem. In the future, when such MPs are left with time, I ask you to apply Article 103, paragraphs 7 and 8 to take away from the speech, the time to speak, such Members of Parliament, the time they abuse by advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which absolutely does not stand. So, there's Mr. Martinovic here, or ask Mr. Martinovic if he's a doctor, I'm not sure, ask Mr. Stojmirovic if he's a doctor... I'm not asking you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31350	Time. Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Mr. Risticevic, as chairman, we were not elected by the MPs, you, to recognize someone. We can only react if someone mentioned by name and last name in a negative context which was not the case and we as chairman cannot react, but at any time we will protect the dignity of the National Assembly and the dignity of the MPs. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. The assembly, do you want to make a statement? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers and gentlemen of the Ministry, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have listened a lot so far and my fellow MPs, which is why this bill is positive and should be passed. I am glad that this situation in parliament is that there is no big debate and that it is peaceful, because it is indeed something that is of interest and the need of the Serbian state and of Serbian citizens, we will not enter into a small incident that is irrelevant. I would, of course, like to read some of the arguments on purpose in order to make it clear, because we have to repeat things more than once that it would be clear to the citizens of Serbia when and on such topics they are talking about, when and for the last few years, because there has been a very strong propaganda for the last few years, especially in our media that has no foothold in the people, because we see that there is no foothold in the parliament against Serbia's co-operation with the NATO Pact, so it's started now to expand against Serbia's membership in the EU and any international co-operation of Serbia that includes Western hemisphere states and this media campaign and propaganda that has been going on for some time now, it seems to me, at least it's been my impression and hysterical. This agreement, and therefore, I will read some of the reasons that it would be clear to everyone that this, as the minister has said several times already, does not do, nor does this agreement represent a step towards Serbia's entry into NATO pact, nor is it a topic, but cooperation with this collective security system, the strongest, strongest, the only in the world, everything else regarding military and security co-operation is about bilateral co-operation of various states, and we have such agreements with other countries that are not members of this alliance, so that we are going to NATO Pact, completely some other documents would be done, such as a map, a road, and this is something about the Partnership Agreement for Peace, where we are a member for decades, where we have within that partnership 28 member states of the Alliance and of course 16 countries that are not members of the Alliance, because some of them have been declared militaryly neutral, such as Finland, Sweden, Ireland, Austria, Switzerland, Switzerland, Switzerland, Switzerland, Switzerland, Switzerland, Switzerland. In the same programme, however, now with suspended status because of the situation in Ukraine and Russia, which in previous years had far better co-operation and far greater capacity has benefited, than Serbia has done so far, there is even a special advice from Russia-NATO that met twice a year and discussed everything they needed about their co-operation, and even the Russian military and Russian states participated in some NATO missions, such as Isaph in Afghanistan, where they significantly assisted alliances in that mission entrusted to the UN, so that, when we talk about some things, we should be honest. We should say that our co-operation with the NATO Pact is realised under this programme and in accordance with the National Assembly Resolution on the Protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order, which was adopted on 26 December 2007. So, it is already mentioned that we are also working through an individual partnership programme and rules of planning and review, which is a special form of co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and NATO, and it represents us and the group of Serbia NATO for defence reform, which was founded in 2006, to provide support for implementation of reforms in the defence system by the alliance and the states that are its members. This programme initiative is also a framework for building the necessary capacities of EU member states, which are not members of NATO, in order to actively participate in the EU's common security and defence policy, which we, as a candidate, are committed and more and more, as a candidate country that wants to be a member of the EU, and we hope to be, soon and soon, to have and participate in the EU's common security policy, so all that we do, as we do today, is necessary in order to be a full member. Also, the new moment in co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and NATO is the opening of a NATO mission and military representation in its composition, as well as increasing co-operation with NATO committees and working groups. This agreement and the implementation of this agreement enables smooth military co-operation, and above all with regard to the preparation, implementation of military exercises and the building of the necessary capacity to engage in a multi-national operation, which we have spoken several times here and every year when we talk about Serbia's participation in multinational operations, of great importance, not only for our army, but for our complete society, and this increase has also been shown from year to year, shows and strengthens the credibility of Serbia's state in international relations. For reasons that the Republic of Serbia has not yet implemented this agreement, the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia is facing significant difficulties in the implementation of certain activities with NATO member states and participants of this programme in the past engagement and activities under the Partnership for Peace programme. These mechanisms in the Agreement are using intensively all participants of the Partnership Programme for Peace, which are members of the EU and are not members of NATO, to prepare their forces for an active contribution and to strengthen European common security and defence policy. This should all be taken into account, because we as a society have a consensus and agreement that we want to be part of the EU. These few who make great noises and support them, apparently some on the side, to turn us off that path, and thank God, they fail, which proves today's debate. What's important is working with this alliance, what are we increasing? So I repeat my cooperation. We're increasing the security of our country and our citizens, and that's more than clear. In what way? We have one situation, and I have spoken in this House on several occasions, that there is something called the Islamic State in the Middle East. We don't need to forget, because the origin of the Islamic state hasn't disappeared the threat of global terrorism, because they're not the only terrorists in the world who can threaten our security. A few days ago, he was probably one of the scariest days in mankind's history in terms of terrorism and such actions. In one day, 60 people died on three different continents. In Tunisia 39, Kuwait and France were killed by members of the same organization. This organization is currently the biggest threat to the security and peace of the world. I'm convinced that's what I've been saying here for a year. We're not protected from that if we don't cooperate, because only by exchanging information can we get to the point that even though we're in one, if we're working with this collective security system and with everyone else in the world, only a good exchange of information can we protect ourselves. With some closures and cages and some autistic behavior, surely we cannot protect our citizens from this danger, and it is present in both ours and ours. The other thing is that increased, we often say that, and it's absolutely true, that legal certainty is something that can bring big investors into a country, but, I repeat, big investors. We have investments and investment and investors are coming to Serbia, but the biggest, most serious ones who would hire all those who are waiting for a job and who are looking for a job in the Republic of Serbia can come and want only those markets and those countries that are not only legally safe, but who are safe and who are sure that some unstable situation will not endanger their work, as is now said in Tunisia entire tourism and beyond that threatened. The conclusion is that Serbia is today, after all, the world's exporter of security and peace, with its policy and way of leading both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence, that way should continue. That's what everyone in the world admits and supports. What's the paper, which hasn't been the case backwards for years, is that now they recognize and respect it, and in the country with which we had, as with the NATO Pact itself, the unfortunate, we didn't have the best relationship of the 1990s, we fix them. I'm not even saying that we've had them until recently, which is the United States, but in this way and this behavior, most of all with this segment and this work in the defence policy, we're returning this friendship that we once had, cooperation and trust, so this is also a very important element in the process of European integration of the Republic of Serbia, and of course we need to keep doing this so that our country and our citizens are safer. Ministers, both you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have our support for the MPs who are members of the SNS for this and in the coming period and for this kind of work. Just keep it up, there's no problem and Serbia will certainly be much better in the coming days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31352	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31353	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will shorten my presentation for the sake of the obligation and the Minister and the representative of the Ministry, but I would like to say that under all agreements signed under the Partnership Programme for Peace, the SOFA Agreement and the Security of Information Agreement, the two most important agreements under the Partnership for Peace. The SOFA Agreement specifies the host countries' obligations towards the armed forces of the sending country from a point of view of disciplinary and criminal responsibility and from the aspect of the transit of goods and representatives of the armed forces. This programme, as Mr. Minister explained well, is the obligation of the host country to deliver to the sender, for committed disciplinary errors and crimes other than the crime for which the death penalty has been threatened, is the obligation of the host country to the representatives of the armed forces on our territory to deliver to the sending country, and that is understandable, since all countries 28 plus 16 members of the peace partnership have signed such an agreement. There were few words here what this proposed deal with the aspect of profit, the Benefit, offers to our armed forces. For the first time, it is possible for our officers to participate in the work of NATO member states' staffs, and this is an immeasurable contribution to the aspect of the experiences they experience there to prepare, plan, organise and manage combat actions. Without signing this agreement, so far our officers have been in various peace operations, participating only as observers and not as planners within the headquarters of NATO member states. I would refer to this Hamlet dilemma that follows our public, which is general, which is the general public, whether Serbia should at the moment access the NATO Pact or not, risking that my colleague, Shormaz, doesn't mind, I think it was artificially created dilemma for a number of reasons. First, it is known that this parliament's resolution adopted the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, because of the end of the unfortunate 1990s and the famous NATO campaign on our country, they are still fresh wounds, so the reach for this issue has been deprived of any real foundation. Third, because the majority opinion of the public opinion is that Serbia is not needed right now and has not matured the conditions for Serbia to declare whether it wants to join the collective security system. The controversy between NATO enthusiasts and NATO skeptics has been artificially produced. These first NATO enthusiasts recognise in leaders or members of individual political parties want to publicly through the invitation of NATO enthusiasm to express their leadership ambitions and by supporting our country's NATO pact at the moment, seek support from NATO's leading countries for their leadership ambitions. I think that controversy should be put at least at this point ad act. Another major reason for Serbia not to think about joining any collective security system right now is that Serbia reformes its political, economic and overall social system and adapts it to European standards. The question is whether the EU will define an authentic, self-private, defence policy. Serbia may be in a position to declare such a policy and possibly access to the EU-defined collective security system. Therefore, it is not necessary to think hastily about joining the NATO Pact or any alliance. I think this agreement is very important and I think that the Ministry of Defence, in line with the strategy and defence policy, is zealously fulfilling the promises that it made regarding our approach to collective security systems, from the aspect of strengthening our defence capacity in our country. In the end, you know that we are witnesses of the declared forces involved in peacekeeping operations, witnesses of many preparations, performing exercises on our territory and signing ratification of this agreement is important because both in preparation and planning, and in carrying out and preparing our armed forces for participation in multinational operations, the sending countries must feel completely safe and their status fully defined in our country. With this, we do not sign anything today that has not been signed by 16 members of the Partnership for Peace or 28 NATO members, simply if we have defined ourselves as such, we are also going through this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31354	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31355	I thank the Honorable Chairman, for all that has been said today, for giving up the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31356	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31357	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the intensity of Serbia-Yugoslavia's co-operation with NATO pact has changed throughout history through these decades and the existence of the NATO Pact. From the good relations we had in the '50s as Yugoslavia, to the bottom of the 1999 relationship reached. Talking about an agreement with the NATO Pact, not mentioning NATO's aggression in Yugoslavia in 1999, would be extremely incorrect for victims, on the one hand, and it would also be a loss of dignity for ourselves and for our countries in general. Therefore, I must return to that year, 1999, when the NATO Pact committed a brutal aggression on our country and when, without legal grounds and violations of international law, without a Security Council decision, the bombing was carried out by the SRJ then. By justifying democracy and human rights, children have been killed, a crime has been committed against our country. That time and that wound will remain permanent, but as time passes, how it will remain only memories of that period, we must live on, but we can never forget that time. Today with the alliance we have a signed agreement on a Partnership for Peace. It's Serbia's interest. It is an interest for Serbia to be a factor of stability in these areas, to ensure that Serbia provides peace for its future generations and to ensure peace for all the good people who exist in our environment and in the world. Our foreign policy is today recognizable and the most important thing we have today, because in some time our foreign policy was from today to tomorrow, changing already as the parties came to power and was not defined and did not determine Serbia's interest. It is today defined by our geopolitical position, both our tradition and history, and it is clearly defined as a policy in military terms as a policy of military neutrality, and in political view to seek EU accession. That's what they expected of us and that's what gives stability to our country today that it can also sign a partnership for peace and that it can have the same good relations with Russia and China. The new world order, which then defined this aggression in 1999 and which NATO made as a defence organisation in the aggressor process and which then formed, and legal elements within the meaning of the UN tribunal, so that it should legally package everything, no longer exist today. It's an old world order, because with Russia strengthening and strengthening China, like today, and in what year China will be the first leading force and economic and military, things have changed significantly. In that view, Serbia must also look for its place and its chance. The time when they told us that if we weren't with them, that we were against them was over. They're telling us today - you don't have to be with us, but you can't be with them and it's absolutely fine with us. The story of us sitting on two chairs is absolutely not true. We're just sitting in our chair today. Our participation in peace missions is our international obligation and we will continue to do so through these peace missions that started with our health, and have spread to our remaining army, we will continue in our interest, because we will strengthen our defence forces and make our political credibility stronger in the world. The kind of agreement we have today and similar agreements are of a technical nature. They just continue what surrounds our signed participation in a partnership for peace. Serbia continues its path, in a clear and responsible way in the interest of a healthy world, in the interests of peace, security and this agreement only confirms it. This certainly does not mean entering the NATO Pact, or approaching the NATO Pact. Our path is clear and it will remain permanent and it is in Serbia's interest and in no other interest. He's in the interest of our citizens and our future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31358	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31359	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say a few words about the agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other participating countries in the Partnership for Peace. For those who think it is a commitment or a must, I will read one of the views of Article 5 that says – this agreement will be open to signing for any country that is either SOFA-NATO's Contracting Party or accepts a call to the Partnership for Peace and sign the Partnership for Peace Framework Document. Article 6 states that this agreement may cancel any participant of this agreement by sending written notice of cancellation to the United States government, which will inform all signatories of any such notification. Cancellation takes effect a year after the US Government received a notice. So this isn't about any need or coercion. This is about the free will of states that have entered the Partnership for Peace and thus co-operate with NATO Contracting States. I think it should be said for the public that no one is going to force anyone into membership, especially not countries that are big and powerful to force some other small ones, which essentially don't have to matter to them. I will also remind myself that even NATO's enlargement poses no threat to any country, but increases the security and stability of the entire Euro-Atlantic region. It was announced at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Budapest this year. The tradition of our co-operation with countries that are part of the NATO Pact dates back to a very long time. In 1881, Serbia established diplomatic relations with the United States. Since then, much has happened at the US-Princess Serbia's route, and then the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and Yugoslavia, the SFRY. I'll just remind you of a few facts from that period. In World War I, at one point, when Belgrade was bombed, the then-main commanding Serbian forces told the king that he should not have set up the capital to be a border caraula. Right after that, after the World War I ended, the United States helped join Vojvodina and recognise Vojvodina, so that at that time Belgrade was no longer a border station, but a city in the centre of Serbia. On that occasion, the Germans, the Austro-Hungarians and others brought to the border the biological extermination of Serbia. In World War II, there were also Germans and Croats and Serb victims, in Jasenovac, 700,000, in the war of about a million. We are working with both the Germans and the Croats today, and it is normal for us to cooperate with everyone, although in two world wars they practically brought us to the brink of extinction. Then there was this tragic and unfortunate 1999. It was during our experience and it's something that hurts. It hurts when you get something called bombs from a friend. But since we have to keep living, I think we have to turn to the future. We were friends for 150 years, and then we got into a fight. It's time to make peace for the future. I think we have a lot more of what's called co-operation than anti-cooperation. We have, unfortunately, some media and interest groups that the Serbian people fear with the NATO pact. Then they sometimes have an episode that they are unhappy with for the sake of achieving some of their goals and then in the media statements – and, yes, you Serbs are not good, we will call NATO a pact, so it will regulate the situation. I think it's a serious abuse that no one would ever do, to say, from NATO that such irresponsible individuals meet to threaten the Serbs of NATO and realize. If that were not the case, co-operation took place in the positive direction of the witness and the recent floods when the US government, through the USID, sent nearly 2m euros in aid to our flooded cities, that they had paid about 150 000 euros for Red Cross, that the US Embassy itself in Belgrade had allocated 50,000 euros, or dollars for volunteers who helped those who were unhappy. The military co-operation that is taking place seems to me, in a good way, to be seen in good co-operation at the construction of the South and the training of our soldiers, to say, for participation in international multinational units and, if I serve the data well, more than five million euros, or dollars, invested in the development of infrastructure and cooperation in favour of our military and our co-operation. So, in this, let me say, a plastic way, I wanted to draw attention not to advocate Serbia's membership in the NATO Pact at the moment, but in any case, by advocating the need for co-operation, the need for better co-operation and the need to sign this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31360	Thank you, Mr. Radojevich. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31361	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31362	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Mr. Granny, do you want a word? (No) I thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31363	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I want us to be done, I guess we're finishing this debate that's been passed in spirit, which, let me say, is kind of nice to say a few things that have been said that just don't stand. Regardless of our difficult history at the end of the 1990s with NATO, it is not true that NATO formed the UN tribunal. Simply, the Hague tribunal, we all know, was formed after the Dayton Agreement, with a mild view of the regime then, and the first delivery to The Hague tribunal was in time before 2000. It's not the subject of today's debate, but it's simply not fair, nor correct, nor okay to abuse this pay phone, nor to talk about something that isn't true. The UN-sponsored UN tribunal of The Hague. All countries are practically UN participating and that's something that's true and fact. Mr. Minister, I just want to finish by saying that the DS will vote for this bill, but I remind you that this is in some way a big step, a small step, whatever you want to say, in our further approach, or a stronger relationship with not only the NATO countries' forces, but also the Partnership for Peace. This is only part of all the benefits that the Republic of Serbia should benefit from such an agreement. We said that the military would have the opportunity to raise its operational capabilities, that the military would have the opportunity to participate in peacekeeping missions in fuller capacity with better, I suppose, preparations, that this would give us the opportunity to carry out our first mission on a higher level, which is very important in defending the country. I want to point out that the capacity with this agreement is not only military, or military, but diplomatic. So the job of the Ministry of Defence is, as we know, one conditioned foreign policy ministry that deals with, in a way, foreign policy. I insist that you, with the capacity you receive in the National Assembly, influence the work of our government that those who need to suffer that capacity to use it properly. That's what we talked about here when the story was about participation in peace missions. No one here has ever been or is now an exhibitionist who sends our soldiers into peace missions that risk lives, who risk getting hurt or, God forbid, is sick because he's an exhibitionist with a desire to fulfill someone's wishes. This is what the state is doing seriously to gain serious international capacity, negotiating capacity, and that with these capacities it could affect foreign policy events that affect our country as well. So, to be very explicit, I expect that, after this, our diplomacy and foreign affairs representatives, including the president and prime minister, have a greater momentum in our country's foreign policy, because we are witnesses that yesterday the prime minister said - if no one vetoes the resolution that will be presented in the UN, we are, despite all these friends, ready to be alone. We don't do this today to be alone. It's not your responsibility, but you're a cabinet member who has to influence his colleagues so we never get into a situation alone again. If our flag is fixed with other participants in peacekeeping missions, including NATO and EU countries, I expect that we have the kindness of these countries in the way that it is recognised in some countries, and I am sure that, if we were to articulate that energy in time, it would mean a lot to the state of Serbia and to manage foreign policy and to protect the interests of all Serbian citizens. I repeat, we will all vote for this proposal, because we think he's good. Too bad he hasn't come to the agenda before. We'd have more use if we had it earlier, but regardless of now it's on the agenda and I'm saying it's a good, positive shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31364	I thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Mr. Blazic, replica or... ? (Branislav Blažić, from the place: Replica. Mr. Blazic... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I didn't mention him.) Mr. Sutanovac, please. Make sure I respect the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Blažić, in no way have you mentioned Mr. Sutanovec in a negative context that I would have the opportunity to give you the right to a replica. (Branislav Blažić, from the place: I was misread. I was the only one talking about The Hague tribunal. ) If you feel that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, please contact the Rules of Procedure, but I cannot give you a word by line. (Branislav Blažić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ( A) What member? (Branislav Blažić, from the place: Article 107) Here you go, Mr. Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31365	Just for the sake of truth, I didn't mention that the NATO pact was formed by the UN tribunal. My discussion was about the new world order of the '90s in which he had his elements for his function. One element was economic in the sense of imposing sanctions. The second element was a military element in terms of military influence. The third element was to legally round the whole story, which is the story through the UN tribunal before and after 1999. These are elements of the formation of a new world order and this has nothing to do with the NATO Pact in this sense. It's just a word of how the world functioned in the '90s until Russia was strengthened in 2000 when things began to change significantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31366	Thank you. Mr. Blazic, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Because you've tried to take advantage of your reply to the Rules of Procedure and I'm taking away your parliamentary group for two minutes. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army on behalf of one, of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the formal promoter of this law, for a constructive debate. I have to answer a few questions, because I think what's said in the context of... Mr. Sutanovac, your party colleague said in his discussion that NATO is raising the pact along with the Hungarian wall between Serbia and Hungary. I don't think it's relevant today to the story of whether the NATO pact was made by the UN tribunal. In any case, I'm sorry that for such an important law, at one point, there were more ministers in the O.R., it was just me, but an MP for the opposition. What is the importance of the law and how the opposition applies to this law is shown at that time. Anyway, thank you. I think this is an important law and from the point of view... (Marco Djurisic, from the place: What is "shit" now? I really think so, Mr. Djurishic, so you're still a folk MP. I, Mr. Chairman, think that for words like this and what one MP has said, you must react. Excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31368	You're right, Mr. Minister. I didn't hear what the MP said, Mr. Sutanovac, I apologize, Mr. Sutanovac, I apologize, Mr. Djurisic. But if he said what I'm now getting information that he said, I don't think that's like the dignity of the National Assembly and to him as a National MP. I beg you, Mr. Djurishic, I will have insight into the rock of the note, but I really ask you not to repeat such a thing, if you say so. Because, a government official, in this case, Mr. Gasic did not come here to be insulted by us in the National Assembly. I'm sorry. Mr. Sutanovac, what I just said your last name. Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31369	Mr. Gasic, you're here a lot, but you should know that I'm the only debater in front of the DS today. So, you said-- your party colleague. You spoke to me, you said my party colleague, who talked about the wall with Hungary, etc. No party colleague of mine spoke today about a wall rising between Hungary and Serbia. I expect an apology from you. (Bratislav Gasic, from town: Mr. Veselinović. ) Vesenovic is an MP like everyone else, but he is not from my party. He's a three-party man in the meantime...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31370	Mr. Sutanovac, Mr. Gasic thought of Mr. Veselinović because he was a member of the DS, but he is not a member of the DS right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31371	I know. But, you see now, now that's, if I told your fellow SRS, you'd get angry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31372	You're right, Mr. Sutanovac, Mr. Veselinovic is not a member of the DS, but the question is now which party is it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31373	He's an independent MP, performing here on behalf of the Turnover Movement, and please don't insinuate that he's an MP of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31374	You're right, Mr. Shutanovac. I'm sorry, DS. So, it's about Mr. Veselinović who was once a member of the DS, and now, we haven't determined which party he is yet. Here you go, Mr. Gas. Before that, please, Mrs Barisic, she has the advantage of hurting the Rules of Procedure. The word has been given by the People's MP Dr. Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31375	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, what is happening is shameful. I declare breach of Rules of Procedure Article 7, Article 105, Article 108. This is where a regular violation of the Rules of Procedure is used, especially when the defence minister is and when the prime minister is in this high house. It's a shame the opposition colleagues don't have any other arguments using words, I can't even repeat what my fellow MP said, I'm ashamed to say it in this high house. Too bad the citizens of Serbia didn't hear that. I'm proud to be here and to be a representative of Rasin County and County where the Defense Minister comes from, because it's the man who raised my city from the ashes. And they have led the city to the bottom of the very people to whom it belonged or to an MP who is so shamefully expressing himself here. Indeed, I ask you to respond in time and to prevent such behavior here. Give a warning, one, the other, get out of this room, because it's unworthy of that behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31376	I thank you, Mrs. Barisic. Believe me, I didn't even assume that something like that could be said in this room, and that the moment it was said I was so amazed, that I still want to believe that it wasn't spoken in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. I will have insight into the rock of the note and then I will inform the Assembly in this case whether it was spoken by MP Djurisic. Thank you, Mrs. Barisic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. Sir, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31377	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Sutanovac, I apologize to you, and as you can see, it's not at all difficult for me to apologize when I say something like that, but you have to bear in mind that the gentleman who talked about that fence so often changes his political parties and his beliefs that we simply can't know where he is anymore. Anyway, take my apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31378	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31379	Mr. Chairman, you said you were shocked, that you were astounded, I ask that with the same attention that you were having today's session, that you bring it to an end. Today's law on confirming the agreement is the law that has experienced the highest degree of consent among all MPs, and I think that this is the path that citizens expect from us, the path of a normal and decent communication. But what's just before and you won't find it in the stenogram notes, because it was the expression from the scene, nothing's said in the microphone, but if we go over it quietly, we'll just say we're shocked, we won't do anything, because tomorrow from Mr. Djurisic or someone else we'll welcome a lot worse. They called on the government and called on ministers as far as rain, and then when they have communication with both the Prime Minister and the Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then we get all of this and the administration is Mrs Barisic, I don't and I can't even mention it, and I can't repeat everything that's been said. I am opposed to any measure of punishment or anything, but at least at this point I can expect from you and my colleague Đurisic to rise up and make public apologies to Minister Gasic and to this high home and citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have been violated by such one expressions and such one speech of hatred that can no longer be tolerated on the street, or amongst which populations, and I don't know in which layers of our society, and at least in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask and insist that an apology be made and that such things never happen again in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because in this way you insult both the citizens and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all other MPs, it is at least scandalous.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31380	I thank Mr. Babiæ, surely we will have the opportunity to make sure that is spoken in the National Assembly, since our valuable stenographers record what is not said in the microphone, and it is said in the O.R., if loud enough in the O.R. Hall. So I'll notify the National Assembly tomorrow if it's said, when I have insight into the rock of the note. I once again apologize to all the MPs for not being able to respond at the moment, because I was astounded myself. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: You don't have to, Mr. Djurisic should apologize. () Since we see that the MP does not wish to apologize, I will apologize to the National Assembly for not reacting as chairman and for what was said in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31381	He can't apologize. He can't apologize. You have violated Article 103, which says that the violation of the Rules of Procedure can be advertised immediately after the completion of the exhibit. So, after what you said about the scandal, which I didn't hear about, I have to say, he even said the minister and you, since you didn't break his presentation, you gave your colleague Babic the word that he explained something that happened before that, even before I said so, if it happened. Please let this session she had today, to say the correct course, bring the end in the right way. Since no injury was done, just before you gave your colleague the word, please don't do it anymore. It's a violation of the elemental violation of Article 103. If there is anything to do with the exposure of your colleague, you could have given it, but regarding the exposure of anyone you could not before, under Article 103, it clearly obliges you not to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31382	Mr. Sutanovac, not wanting to go in with you in any controversy, I just have to say that I have to listen to every MP who reports for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, to see what he wants to blame me in that injury, as chairman. Mr. Babic said in a way that I broke the Rules of Procedure because I gave the word to Mr. Gasic, and I did not respond to what he did or he believes that Mr. Djurisic did. So I believe that I have rightfully given Mr. Babic a word to explain why he thinks I broke the Rules of Procedure and for which I have not responded, and I have given the word to Mr. Gasic, and I have not previously responded to what Mr. Djurisic did after Mr. Babic. Mr. Djurishic, you're the one who reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Everyone remembers me. Then he has the advantage of Mr. Babic, so I'll give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Granny. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31383	Article 108, Mr. Chairman, and I'll repeat, I'm sorry that one decent and normal session is ultimately polluted by this sort of thing. Repeat, I'm opposed to any punishment. I'm more in favor of dialogue and more in favour of admitting a mistake if it's made and making an apology to the one to whom that heavy and ugly word is addressed, but also to all of us who heard it from a distance of 10.15.20 meters, and didn't hear anyone who was within a meter or two. I'm not asking anyone to be tried here, but why is it hard to say – excuse me? Why is it easier to replace thesis? Why is it easier to explain that it is not necessary to give a word to another MP instead of joining and saying, "Yes, it was, it's embarrassing?" With an apology, we will all leave this hall learned about one experience, how it should not behave on the street or in anger, and at least in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I insist, Mr. Chairman, not to make an apology because you did not say such a thing, although you have been accused of saying many things and for much less things you were put on the indictee's bench, but I insist on the one who primarily sent a terrible ugly word to the minister, which is Mr. Djurisic, to direct and to say only one thing - I'm sorry. If it's so big to do – I'm sorry, I'll do it on my personal behalf and the name of the SNS parliamentary group to accept and move on. Unless someone wants to say something like that, to his soul, but I want him to insist and let the public know what we're all facing and what we have to listen to in this National Assembly room. That sort of thing never occurred to any member of the SNS to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31384	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31385	We want to face arguments, not hate and ugly words.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31386	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Especially at sessions like this, we can see because we in the National Assembly have 250 MPs, and we have a case that only a few MPs always in this way destroys the dignity of the National Assembly, and that it is by the rule that we are guilty, the chairman, and in any case, it is my fault as chairman of this session. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31387	Thank you, Chairman. I have commented on my account a completely inappropriate statement by the minister who in this discussion today, who did not raise tension, set out to give lessons to whom mattered and who was in the O.R. and who was not in the O.R. I've been commenting on my own account. I didn't look at the minister, I didn't look at him. If he was offended by those words, which my colleague Sutanovac, who sits two metres from me, didn't hear because they were being directed, sent them to himself, I apologize to him and I have no problem. I'd like to, Mr. Babico, because you called me whether or not I should, and you to apologize when you called the MPs and called them the ugliest names from there. (Zoran Babic, from the place: To whom? When? Don't make me tell you what's said in this room. (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: Please respond.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31388	Please, Mr. Babic, allow Mr. Djurisic to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31389	The chairman did not react, and you said it in an effort to let that messenger hear it. I didn't want to go into controversy with Mr. Minister at all, but I thought it was inappropriate for him to be exposed at the end of this session that he was talking about who was in the O.R. and who wasn't in the O.R. So, don't do that, Minister. I've been commenting on it in my beard, as they say. I didn't want to do anything with you, and if you've heard that, if it offends you, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, I don't have any problem with that, but don't come here and teach us how to do the job of the MPs because it's not yours. Answer the questions, Mr. Minister, when you're asked because we've been waiting for your answer for months -- who gave security to the Prime Minister's brother, who's responsible for the helicopter crash, not us to give lessons about how it works here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31390	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Djurisic, I don't expect an apology from you because what you said to yourself in your beard is just an indicator of what you think of all of us. That's what I have to say to myself, and as vice president of the SNS, no SNS MP would give himself the right to say what you said. Keeping your head bent down is probably talking about you. That's the same thing you did in the previous period, and when the committees of your party in Bruce were about a lot of other things you did. We're used to taking only insults, and I've said what was the actual situation of the moment when we discussed such an important law and all the SNS MPs and coalitions around the SNS were in the O.R., and no MP of the opposition was there, and that's true, right? I don't know what could have hurt you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: That is not true. Well, is everyone in the O.R. now? I don't want to discuss it with you. I expect an apology from you, and let the people's congregation do according to its own, and let the chairman do what you have said. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You received an apology. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-06-0.u31392	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Granny, did you want the word again? (Zoran Babic, from the place: Mr Gasic said enough. ) I thank you on the basis of Article 98(4). I am concluding my Rules of Procedure a unique search on the draft law. Since we have carried out a unique search, since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in voting day to decide on a bill in general. I thank the Members of the People. We'll be back tomorrow at 10:00.
