ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29599	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the ninth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice, or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29600	Thank you very much. First of all, I have more questions for different ministries, and I refer my first question to the Minister of Health. In fact, yesterday we were all in a position to learn the unloved news and that in patients who were operated on emergency surgery from June 7th to 11th, a large number of infections were registered that were followed by various complications, as well as some patients, unfortunately, received sepsis after surgery, and that the operating block and the shock rooms of this department were closed. The Hospital Epidemiology Service of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, as well as the Belgrade City Institute for Public Health, said measures were taken to prevent and control the spread of infections. My question is, what exactly is it? Is what the director of the Emergency Center said that six of the 103 operated persons had, or was it infected with infections, that two patients died, or is it true what the Director of the Clinical Center said, which is that the operating block was not closed and that there were no deaths due to these infections? I hope the Ministry of Health will answer my question on time, what's actually in the middle. Is it a failure, neglect, intricacies, or simply a lack of resources, and thus a lack of medication? I refer my second question to the Minister of Agriculture. Namely, every other cattleman in our country in his barn has a cow. The Ministry of Agriculture came to me, at least one hand, a crazy idea, and so by a regulation on the distribution of incentives in agriculture and rural development for 2015, decided that the amount of 25 000 dinars to subsidies per cow must only be given to milk producers that have two or more cows. My question is, does the Ministry of Agriculture even know that incentives and throats do not only have market value, but have their social function in the first place? Will the Ministry of Agriculture decide next year not to grant subsidies for those who have two or more throats? In this decision, the Ministry actually decided that all those peasant households with one throat should be completely eliminated from the livestock subsidy system? My last question is, does the Ministry of Agriculture even know that absolutely every throat is important for development, in fact, it would be better to say about the survival of livestock farming in Serbia that is on very low branches? So, is this one decision by the Ministry of Agriculture to take care of the land, by forcing them to go to the Bureau of Employment in cities, to actually become social cases? Next question I'm referring to Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. Namely, how is it even possible and what does Serbian diplomacy do without being able to learn in time what is being prepared in the text of the Srebrenica resolution, so how long will we be uninformed? I have one last question for Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. My question is this - who is, where, in what way and how in the organization and chain of command or even better said within the framework of internal control, so in the MUP and customs has been arrested, as many as 29 people? More importantly, my question is, how much damage has it been done to us, and could all of this have been discovered before, since there has been a fight against corruption in our country for a long time and, of course, a zero crime rate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29601	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Neven Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29602	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take the opportunity to join the congratulations that we could hear from this house yesterday, addressed to our representatives on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, but I will take the opportunity to send another card to another representative who will participate in the Special Olympics in Los Angeles in 2015. For the public who is not familiar, they managed to raise the money needed to participate in the competition, won the big fight, but what little public knowledge is exactly the fight that takes place outside sports fields and arenas. Parents of children with developmental disorders, parents of children with disabilities, daily fighting for survival and the normal life of these children. They launched a single initiative three years ago and launched a petition that would have managed to put a law that would level the status, their status with the status of children's fosterers with developmental impediment in this high home. But that petition of 61,000 signatures ended up in some drawer forgotten, and to this day nothing seemed to be the issue. A few months ago, the issue was restarted in this home, and fortunately, the government had heard, namely Minister Alexander Vulin recognized the difficulties of this group of people, uninhabited and made contact with representatives of the parent union. At the first meeting organised by Minister Alexander Vulin, he promised the parents that he would put the law on analysis, financial analysis, and that we would get results very soon. On this occasion, I refer my question to Minister Alexander Vulin and I want to thank him for having heard and for having received his parents at the meeting and hearing all the problems they face and asking one specific question, which is what kind of methodology they plan to carry out in the Ministry of Finance. I ask Minister Voulina's question because he has just taken that responsibility upon himself, the whole of this law – what method, since we don't have a register of people with developmental disorders and when can we expect the results of the analysis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29603	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29604	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens, after statements by Belgrade Mayor and Director still state-owned, i.e. enterprises owned by the state of "Belgrade on Water", we have come to the full new knowledge and data when it comes to a contract that we cannot reach. We have appealed and asked a thousand times what is the problem with the public being informed of what is signed in the agreement between Eagle Hills and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what strategic project for the City of Belgrade and Serbia is in general. The Competition Protection Commission agreed to the contract only three weeks ago. The State Aid Control Commission will do so in the next few weeks, but we do not know why the public still has no insight into the signed "Belgrade on Water" contract? The contract was signed in May. Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Zorana Mihajlovic and representatives of Eagle Hills after statements by the mayor and director of "Belgrade on Water" we learned that there are no three and a half billion euros in investments as announced by the prime minister and representatives of the government when defending the "lex specialis" in the Republika Srpska Assembly. We learned that only A1 is the construction phase, a phase where the investor will invest only 150m euros. Then, 150m euros to lend to the joint venture, i.e. to lend itself and 130m euros to the government of the Republic of Serbia under commercial conditions for the cleaning of the terrain and the preparation and arrangement of city building land. It is speculated that the state of Serbia will have only 32% stake in the newly formed "Belgrade on Water", 68% Eagle Hills, which is known for establishing the company and whose founding capital in Serbia is only 100 dinars. We have learned that the project will last for 30 years, which is completely contrary to the prime minister and mayor of Belgrade's statements, that it will last for four and then ten years. When a million and 800 thousand squares are divided by 30 years, we get only 60 grand a year. I don't know if the Government of the Republic of Serbia knows that it's 6% of everything that is normally built in Belgrade every year without any major investment, and this is presented as a major momentum of the economy and as a major momentum of the construction industry. Why is the "Belgrade on Water" contract hidden? What does the Government of the Republic of Serbia hide from Serbian citizens? Who will repay 130m euros in credit for a private company? Who will repay 150m euros in loans to the joint venture and under what conditions and what will be the interest rate? The question is, will the D.A. react on time and will this case be discovered before the contract's due? I point out the issue of Zorani Mihajlovic directly, why is there a contract hidden from Serbian citizens that represents, as you said, the strategic development of Serbia, the momentum of the Serbian economy, the construction industry with the employment of tens and tens of thousands of people? Why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia not publish a contract on "Belgrade on Water"? I repeat, 150m euros, and there are no three and a half billion as said by the prime minister and ministers when defending Lex Specialis, 150m euros under dubious conditions of loans to the joint venture and 130m euros in loans that will return from the interest budget paid by Serbian citizens, not by those who will live in those towers at the Sava amphitheatre, but by those who have reduced salaries and pensions. We therefore ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to publish the contract on "Belgrade on Water" as soon as possible, to see what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is hiding from its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29605	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish a word or a notification in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29606	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS government in Vojvodina, unfortunately, has been here for 15 years. During the mandate, DS Vojvodina has become the last car in a poor composition since Serbia's development locomotive. Agricultural giants in northern Serbia are destroyed and destroyed by DS and Bojan Pajtic, as well as Boris Tadic. Agriculture is on its way out, and the duchy villages are shutting down, the peasants are on their own. Dear Dukes, such a situation is more unsustainable. The money routes from the luxuriant province funds of Bojan Pajtic are very suspicious but with a well-known destination. It's all about Bojan Pitiæ. He's talking about it, the respected citizens of Vojvodina, that he really has to leave. He's very aware of that, but that's why he's a very dangerous, respected citizen of Vojvodina, right for you. The accusations of Pajtic in recent days at the expense of the Serbian government are in the function of preserving traces of iniquities from pocket theft, respected citizens of Vojvodina, yours. Pajtic has not yet answered the question of you, respected citizens of Vojvodina, regarding all abuses in the business of Vojvodina Development Bank, the Capital Investment Fund, the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. Believe it or not, respected citizens of Serbia and Vojvodina, it is true that Metals Bank, which later transformed on the orders of Bojan Pajtic and Boris Tadic during 2007 and 2008, donated Djordja Balasevic no less than 400,000 euros for the film "As Early Frost". The film was paid out of the pockets of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina and Serbia. Djordje Balaševic, as director of film, screenwriter and composer, literally hired the entire family. The daughter of Jeleni was entrusted with the lead role, while the second daughter of Jelena tried as an assistant director, and Alexander's son played a prominent role in the film, and believe it or not, wife of Oliver was a producer. The film almost no one saw it, but that's why Balasevic supported Tadic and Pajtic in the election campaign. Believe it or not, respected citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia, even his daughter Jelena recently became culture minister in Pajtic's so-called "Pajtic". “ Government in Shadows or “Government, Fat Ladove. ” Balasevic admitted to the public that the film was a family business project, and our Zoran Jovanovic, a man who stands and stands behind some of the biggest TV series in Serbia, says the disputed film is really bad, no one saw it in the movies, but is therefore shown in individual homes of culture and in the Oil Gas Hall. The film was funded by Metals Bank, DDOR Novi Sad, Executively Greater Vojvodina headed by Pajtic, JP "Vojvodina Water" and JP "Vojvodina Forests" and believed or not, the basis of co-operation was a sponsorship contract. Dear citizens of Vojvodina, this is how Bojan Pajtic and Boris Tadic destroyed your past, destroyed our present, the future of our children, but if you leave them in power in Vojvodina for just one more year, they will destroy your roots. As a People's MP, I call on Bojan Pajtic to resign on behalf of you, respected citizens of Vojvodina, and if he is not a citizen, I propose that you charge Bojan Pajtic and DS and hand it over to the highest court in Vojvodina, to condemn him in the first elections by sending him to the political past, that is, the waste of history and of him and the DS from which he will never return, to your happiness, respected Vojvodina, to the political life of Vojvodina and Serbia. In the end, I'm asking the D.A.'s office, are there any elements for prosecution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29607	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vanja Vukic, Stefana Miladanovic, Branko Ružić, Miodrag Nikolic, Jelisaveta Veljković, Dubravka Filipovski, Gordana Comić, Neđo Jovanovic. We continue to work and move on to a single search on the 8th item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF CERTIFICATION OF THE AMENDMENTS AND THE FUNDS OF THE FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK According to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session by Dr Dusan Vujović, Minister of Finance; Dr Srdjan Verbic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development; Branko Drcelic, V. d. Director of Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance and Ivana Magdic, V. d. Assistant Director of Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Before opening a single search, I remind you that in accordance with Article 170 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 170. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a unique search into the bill. Does Minister Srdjan Verbic, minister of education, science, technological development want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29608	Dear MPs, the President-in-Office, you are facing a ratification of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Treaty with the European Investment Bank, which refers to the modernisation of schools. The loan was taken over in 2010 and the good part has already been realised. It is under way that the reconstruction of 51 schools, which should be done during this summer, was arranged for students to enter renovated schools on September 1st. The European Investment Bank has asked for ratification of the agreement, because the budget deficit makes it very important for them to have the approval of the National Assembly to stand behind this contract, except for the requirement to withdraw this tranche. It is a project through which 201 schools should be reconstructed. With 51 schools, the work, as far as the contract is concerned, is at the final stage. It means that we have already signed contracts with contractors and ratifications that are very important for us to be able to withdraw that loan tranche as soon as possible, because the construction season, at least when it comes to schools, only lasts until September 1st, because after that we can't work when the students are at school, so it's very important that we start it as soon as possible. We expect really to have 51 schools reconstructed by September 1st. At this point we have signed protocols with local self-government for another 150 schools, which, of course, you will be informed later, but it will not require a new ratification of the contract. It'll just take a new public call to provide contractors for all those schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29609	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29610	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Progressive Party, I am very pleased to convey my support for this agreement, i.e. the proposal for a law relating to the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements of the Financial Treaty (the Modernisation of Schools Programme) between our Republic and the European Investment Bank, the Treaty and the Programme which is of paramount importance for our country. We've heard about what this proposal refers to. I'm going to give myself a comfort to give a few more sentences that explain why this program is so important to our country. The material that follows this point of the agenda shows that these changes are being made and complemented in terms of changing the deadlines that will enable the project to be realised in its full capacity, to start jobs, but also to do many other very important extensive works, once again, works that are precious to our society, precious because of the very important sector, the formal pre-university education sector. So they refer to primary and secondary schools and will directly enable, you see, now, more than 200 buildings to be built, i.e. expanded, or upgraded, adapted, and not only that, in addition to direct construction works, this project enables the acquisition of adequate equipment. It can be concluded in materials that there are three categories of this agreement, that projects relating to the first category refer specifically to two secondary and ten primary schools. The realization of this category has been going on for several years. To this day, it included two secondary schools, a specific secondary school in Lapovo and Jagodina, ten elementary schools, of which two primary schools in Novi Pazar, three elementary schools in Belgrade, three elementary schools in Novi Sad, one in Nis and one in Aleksinac. Also, these accompanying instructions and material that explains what changes and contracts are related to will continue to be made to work and redefined deadlines when it comes to the construction of schools in the town of Kumodraž in Belgrade, at Stepa Stepanović elementary school and primary school in Aleksinac, also that there is another component relating to the construction of our internal capacities, specifically to the introduction of information systems, to the implementation of strategies, but also to the development of the necessary methodology for planning infrastructure in this very important portfolio. The third component may be the most interesting one for today's debate. It refers to these more than 200 facilities, in almost the same number of schools across Serbia, which will be built, improved, expanded, adapted thanks to the funds from this loan, and not just credits, when you look at the original 2010 text, you see that the Republic of Serbia also participates in a slightly less significant amount on its part, more than 200, of which we were just able to hear, 51 schools is so mature in realisation that literally the moment we finish our work here, these works begin. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 51, we can go through today's lists that are all schools, where they are all located across our country. In the so-called second phase, therefore, for this first one the public procurement process has already been implemented, contracts have been concluded and the realization can literally begin this second. More than 80 schools are planned for phase two. What does this second phase mean? Also, this type of work, therefore, extends capacity, but also builds vital facilities, such as the physical halls, such as the school kitchens, further, the acquisition of computer equipment, the acquisition of learning, more than clear investments that are unequivocally important for our present, but also for our future, we will agree, distinguished colleagues. Technical documentation has already been prepared for this second phase. We are ready to go to the public procurement process and we need this time proposed by this agreement, i.e. amendments and additions. But that's not the end of it, either. For about 70 schools, the same procedure will be carried out in the period ahead, which we expect to be successfully completed at the end of 2016, as proposed by these amendments and additions. If we look at the statistics and dynamics of the work of this species in years behind us, it is not difficult to conclude that such a project and taking these dimensions realizes jobs for which, compared to our practice so far, it took a lot more than these few years for this agreement to be in force, compared to the period that it will cover, multiplely larger and what treasure it is for this country, we do not need to spend all words together. This will unequivocally enable us to create conditions worthy of the years in which we are, to advance that sector of our society, but also our overall system that represents our way out of green branches, which will allow us to be as society and more capable and more energetic and dynamic, to be smarter and smarter tomorrow and to produce more and to create in every sense and more and better. Because of that, I'm proud to say, this is one of those topics that there is no reason for us to all together to provide full maximum support for the full heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29611	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29612	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Antonijevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would certainly say something about the importance of confirming this contract that was signed in 2010, and now we have amendments and additions to the Law on Confirmation of this Treaty, which extends deadlines for the realisation, i.e. the exploitation of all the funds approved by this Treaty. This contract was signed, as we heard, on 8 June 2010 in Belgrade between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. The Treaty amending and supplementing this Financial Treaty on the Modernisation of Schools Programme was signed in Luxembourg on 18 March 2015 and on 27 March 2015 in Belgrade. The agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank was fully and closely introduced to the SPS parliamentary group, back in 2010, at the time of the signing, at a time when the minister of education and science was Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. Of course, the realisation of the contract then signed was commendable, such as for every commendation of signing this contract and extending its importance at the moment in order to continue the process of modernising schools in the Republic of Serbia. Why was it necessary to support this in 2010 and why is it necessary to do so now at this time? So for a long period of time, our country has almost no funding for investment in education, i.e. those funds are very, very small and absolutely insufficient. Ninety-six percent of the education budget goes to salaries, the rest of which is 4% for loans, for scholarships, for student and student standards, for different programmes, so that there is very little funding left for education investments. Of these funds from the budget, it is almost impossible to make more than a few schools, perhaps, and the school has 1,800 in Serbia, and with the district departments about 2,500 objects that are mostly old, used objects that need to be modernised, adapted and compared to the needs of the educational process, which is appropriate for time, which is impossible without the use of such funds provided by this contract. We know that at a time when Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic was a minister, 25 new schools were built, two dormitories, two dormitories, and by the rule of hundreds of schools among which were schools from Braničevsky County, and my municipality of Petrovac at Mlava. Of course, I don't mention the effect in this part and I'm not talking about the investments and results that were achieved at the time when Minister Zarko Obradovic was due to the glorification of his role, but I'm talking about that and what was done at that time was little and not enough in relation to the real needs needed then and today. That is why it is very useful and therefore the SPS parliamentary group supports the signing of this 10m-euro agreement on the modernisation of schools between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which practically extends the deadlines set out in the basic contract for the full implementation of the 10m-euro approved loan and for the implementation of the three components of this project that were mentioned here. I'd be within this first component, which contains, it's about building new schools. Here we have two schools that are not completed and for which it was necessary to extend those deadlines. The main school "Vojvoda Stepa" in Kumodraz is about one school in Aleksinc, but certainly the third component includes construction and enlargement, as well as rehabilitation and modernisation of schools throughout Serbia, and this is very important. Several schools are covered by these programs and in the municipality of Petrovac on Mlava, where I come from, and certainly that's good, but it's good to do something on this plan in all local self-governments. It is important here that the final date of availability of the funds from this loan be extended and until 31 December 2014, which is already past time, and therefore it is necessary that this new contract be made available until 2016, i.e. on 31 December 2016, with the possibility of making use of these funds and on the basis of documentation that the withdrawn funds are used. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we, as a legislative body, certainly have the awareness and need to support this and our parliamentary group of SPS fully supports the Government of the Republic of Serbia, supports the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and personally you, Mr Verbić, in what is the insistence of all of you and us to create better conditions for the educational process for the work and learning of young generations, because without such one support we cannot expect the future that promises. For these reasons, the SPS will certainly always vote for such projects, for such agreements, as well as for the extension of this contract, i.e. the amendment and addition of this contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29613	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. He's not here. National MP Neven Stojanovic is not here. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Verbic, respected guests from the ministry, Mr Arsic, I would like to ask a few questions from the Minister of Education, Mr Verbic, with several previous remarks. Dear gentlemen, I don't think there should be any dilemma among us here giving for every modern society and that for every modern state education is the most important issue and the most important area. Every time we have an issue of education here, I think there should be special attention from our MPs. Today we are talking about two primary schools, as I understand it, the school should be a place of challenges, development and work of Minister Verbić. School should be a place to develop intellectual and social values in children. The teacher's call is a sacred call, I think, like a doctor's or a judge's call. I have to ask Minister Verbic for his opinion. Minister Verbić, do you feel that these sentences I have previously made really represent a picture of the state of our system of primary education and education? Is Minister Verbic in your court and I ask you to answer these questions, is education really the most important question in your court? Is Minister Verbic in your court, school, elementary school here today, in our country really a place of challenges for development and work? Third question, Minister Verbic, is the primary school in your court today our place of development of intellectual and social values? Fourth question, Minister Verbic, do you feel that in our country today the invitation of teachers is indeed a sacred invitation? It is my opinion, Minister Verbic, that these sentences are not a picture of the state of our basic education and education system. It seems to me that our teachers are, for example, our teachers. in our primary schools today powerless and humiliated, and today the school is not what should be in a modern democratic state. Dear Minister Verbić, when you answer these questions, I ask you, perhaps after this debate, to direct a part of your attention and to a programme that we have prepared in the New Party. It is a fundamental programme concerning education and it is called the "Programme of transforming the education system in Serbia". We have created a single cross-section in the five sub-level education system in Serbia, even within the sub-level that we are talking about today, which is basic education and education. Mr. Verbic, we have prepared here a proposal of certain measures to correct the condition we estimate is bad. I've already told you during several discussions that we had here in the big hall, on the Education and Public Listening Committee, that there is a program. But based on your practical action in politics, it seems to me that you haven't read that program. It's not so letchical, it's just a matter of work. I think the political parties in our country are levitating through their programmes. Programs contain systems of ideas, beliefs, values, opinions, suggestions on how to solve some problems. Minister Verbic here has no party that has such a fundamentally arranged education system transformation programme in Serbia as has the New Party. Once again, I remind you it's worth reading that document. Perhaps in the context of this document you can find inspiration for someone different and in my court a little better function as Minister of Education, that we do not now return to questions of academic integrity and a proposal to supplement the law on higher education that we have referred to in the congregation procedure. These were questions and comments, now I expect an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29615	The word has Minister Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29616	Dear Ambassador Pavicevic, I just want to thank you for your initiative to make educational issues a matter of primary importance in the House of the National Assembly. This is a very important question, and that is why we are gathered here today. It's important for us to address specific issues. There is nothing more concrete than taking advantage of this loan and finishing construction work this summer, providing physical halls, restoring roofs, facades, floors in 50 schools in Serbia. We are trying to be effective and to solve all these problems, and as far as other questions are concerned, of course we are working to answer all the parliamentary questions. If it's a question, we'll answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29617	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, not there. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29618	The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Verbic, the Turnover Movement will support this loan agreement with the European Investment Bank, for the basic reason that we believe the reconstruction of two schools in Serbia is better than to do nothing. As far as this part is concerned, you're talking about 50 schools, I'm talking about an annex to a contract that explicitly lists two schools, but today, Mr. Verbic, we're not in a position to discuss in an adequate way what's going on in these schools? Are teachers in those schools, who have been well-ruined for what this loan should serve to restore them, are they satisfied with their salaries or are they humiliated, as my esteemed colleague Pavicevic said earlier? I think that in these schools they sit and work humiliated educators, as well as colleges and higher schools, there are people who think that this country doesn't give enough funding, and it doesn't have the proper attention that you're talking about, according to basic, high and high education. Without that, there is no shift in this society for us in the Turnaround Movement. If we don't have quality personnel that can carry on economic development, but also the development of culture, education, etc., we can't move on. There is no country in the world that without education and without science has made a move. There is no land that has been built, or any cities or on water or in the air, has raised its economy. Only science and education. It's a good thing these schools are being restored. However, I ask you, Mr. Verbic - do you know that your government in which you are sitting has taken five billion euros in loans for infrastructure facilities and do you know, Mr. Verbic, how much of these funds have been withdrawn? So 1.3 billion, 3.7 billion euros aren't activated, not only that, but we're paying interest and foam on them, and instead of investing those funds in schools, so we wouldn't have to take this loan, we're borrowing again. We're in charge, the truth, for essential and good purposes. However, we did not have to be in debt that this government did not behave wastefully and that it activated those loans, not only activated them and took the money, but also hired a construction operation in Serbia and, as promised, raised cranes throughout Serbia. Our construction industry is failing, Mr. Verbich, and the question is, what is this loan going to be? Oh, God, and let's all believe that this loan, as you say, will be realised this summer and that in those schools next school years, children will enter new gyms, even if it was a few of the schools passed away from the total number of schools in Serbia, which, many of them do not have toilets, or have arranged school facilities, or could even be called schools, if I didn't talk about some other questions, Mr Verbic. I would very much like you to answer my question – why didn't you call another public call for a new cycle of funding for scientific projects because you know that this year's previous five-year cycle ends and you know, Mr Verbic, that the scientific and research work from 1.1.2016 will stop thanks to your ministry. You can't even tell me that tomorrow you're calling that contest to finish it in the next period in a quality way and a number of other questions, Mr. Verbic. You didn't get along very well at this place as a minister. It's hard to manage in this incompetent government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29619	I thank my colleague. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29620	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with an associate, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, today we are discussing the draft law on confirming the treaty on amendments and additions to the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. In fact, it is about the fact that the European Investment Bank granted a 50m-euro loan to the Republic of Serbia through this financial agreement, signed in 2010, to implement and implement a project aimed at modernising schools and a general improvement of pre-university education in the Republic of Serbia. I think the project itself is very quality and very well designed and has three components. However, what is the point of today's debate is that this time period of implementation must be changed, which is foreseen for this project. It is necessary to change it for a simple and simple reason in order for all segments that are intended to be realised by this project to really be realised, so that the deadline of realization is now moved to 31 December 2016. That's actually the point and that legal, let's say, technical part. I will now look a little more at the project itself, which, as I have already said, I think is very good and very good quality and what I would especially like to praise is that it is focused on improving pre-university education in the Republic of Serbia. I would say that this segment of education has been completely unwarranted and unfounded so far. What is the point and what I would particularly refer to, is what drew my special attention to me is the third component of this project, which refers to the modernisation of schools across Serbia. This is also how well and it will certainly make many students, many teachers who work in these schools and what is most important, I hope that it will be achieved with the help of this project, is that it is at least partially reduced, since it is not able to completely remove itself, a huge almost incredible difference that exists very often in some developed primary schools, let's take them for example in Belgrade or in another major city in quality that they offer to their teaching staff to help and show students, who offer their students, in this degree of quality and what quality, or lack you can find in some primary and secondary schools, especially when they are in some remote destinations, poorly developed areas, and not to talk about rural areas. These are conditions that we can practically call misunderstandings and that's something that dates. That's not a problem since yesterday. He dates back a long time, so I certainly think it's something to work on, that it's unacceptable and of course I don't think it can change everything at once. Of course he can't, and I'd like to point out that I notice that this government and, of course, the Resort Ministry are making and making a great effort to change that. However, what we must be aware of, as I have already said, is not a problem dating back to yesterday and as such cannot be solved at once. The problem is resolved gradually, so I am glad that at least some students and some colleagues will actually feel the benefits of this project by starting to work in completely different conditions, or in better conditions. Of course, nothing less is the first or second component of this project. In particular, the first component relating to the construction or addition of certain schools, specifically – ten primary and two secondary schools. Why? The goal is that classes in those schools would no longer take place in more than two shifts. It's one of the most noble goals, to say the least, because as someone who worked at school and who knows what it's like to work in more than two shifts is really very complicated, it's very difficult to work both on teaching and teaching staff, of course for students, and it's very difficult to work and learn in such conditions. In such conditions when there are two or more shifts it is almost impossible to make one quality and valid work plan. The working atmosphere is almost out of order. It's more confusing for both teachers and students. Everyone's watching the schedule. It's really hard and it's a big challenge to work under such conditions, so I repeat again, I'm glad that at least some schools will change that and start working in much better conditions. At the very end of my presentation, I would take the opportunity to remind myself again of one fact that we are all very well aware of, which is that education is not an upgrade of one society, but an education is and will always be the basis of one society. You always have to invest in that base. This base should always be promoted because it is practically the only and safest kind of investment in our future. For this reason, I believe that this bill is good and therefore the SNS will always support this bill and similar to it, which, of course, will do this time in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29621	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. He's not here. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29622	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister with Associates, Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to say immediately in the opening section that I do not agree with that part of the MPs who, Mr. Minister, have given you criticism because they are not based on facts. I have to speak openly to the public in the introduction, to list six things that have been done by coming to you as Minister of Education in the last year, which the predecessors have not done, the previous ministers in the last 10 or 15 years. First of all, you've introduced regular inspections that were a character, not to say, corruption from primary schools to university. The school boards that were connected were no one until you arrived, Mr. Minister. As for the dean's election, you had the courage to send letters and stand behind the dean and the university's rectors being unable to be appointed over two mandates, despite the pressures of the fierce and you succeeded, Mr. Minister. There were deans that were three, four, five and six mandates. They're gone. Maybe another one passed, but I believe they'll be gone, too. Fourth, regarding the Law on textbooks that came, here, to the Assembly and, in my opinion, and most of the MPs who participated in reading, one of the best laws ever seen, and I believe that they will soon be here at our benches. With regard to the selection of the National Educational Council for Higher Education, I must say, the previous meeting, ladies and gentlemen, was unconcerned on a legal basis, because some members have found themselves inside the law, that I am now not explaining here. Sixth, you're the first minister of the previous six to try to stop an unprecedented miracle that happens in higher education, to have teachers teach us full-time in two states. You've recently, in fact, not appointed the director of one institute who had another working relationship in another country, next door to us, I say it openly here and I'm giving you support in that direction, because no one really touched you, with a full pension and a job experience. The abolition of illegal established higher education departments, no one touched it, not only did he not touch it, but previous ministers, Mr Verbic, even illegally supported such efforts. Now let me say a few words about primary and secondary education. This topic today, the construction of schools, respected ladies and gentlemen, has, well, you might say, also education and education in general in Serbia falls into order of transition sectors, and under the former DS regime has experienced the biggest disturbances, so from one European prestigious level we have submerged under the former regime in the greatest crisis in the entire history of education and education. And that's what you inherited, Mr. Verbic, is what the predecessors should have said, those who criticized you. The knowledge and training of all Serbian citizens is the assumption of democracy, they strengthen it, and ignorance favors dictatorships, it must be the basis of our work. That is why many governments in Europe have given education and education a significant place in their programmes. And our Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, gave a significant place to raise and educate in the exposé he submitted to us, the MPs, on 27 April of the Lord 2014. He devoted himself to the education and education of four pages of text, which is more than the previous prime minister gave room to the entire exposés. Move your head, Mr. Congratulations, and look at the exposés. And let us not forget, the exposés of Mr. Alexander Vukic's Prime Minister are the most comprehensive, Mr. Congratulations, the greatest, most precise, most concrete and best of all 72 previous exposés, since the time of the first Prime Minister of Prote Mateja Nenadovic, in 1805 until today, or you in Serbia's modern history. This Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia inherited a system of education and education that characterizes, I would like to discuss opposition MPs about this, firstly, etatization, politicisation, red tape, anti-pedagogisation, commercialisation, co-rusing, testomania, inefficientness, poor and expensive textbooks, a broad field of corruption, and not to list any further. This is what Minister Verbic came into these problems when he arrived for the minister. The depth of the jury of education and education of the system in which the former regime has led us to seek mobile and professional teams at the Ministry of Education, especially at the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, in which Mr Verbic has no influence, but neither the current director, because they inherited it from earlier times, as well as from the departments for the teaching of philosophy schools, because they are in charge of a basic vision of education and education, and there is only one discrepancies between one and the other for the past 20 years. We're on our way, Mr. Minister, thanks to your ministry and to you, because if we weren't, we'd be waiting for new wanderings and crashes, waste of time and chance, new losses on the exam, but I believe this time without a correctional one. That is why this bill on the confirmation of contracts and changes and additions of financial contracts or the modernisation programme of schools between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank is extremely important, because it is an integral part of the modernisation of Serbia that has been set up by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, if you have seen in the presentation of the exposé here. The programme will renovate 134 schools and 65 cities in Serbia. Why do I mention this even though my colleagues have mentioned it before? Because the goal of the entire project was to improve quality, what Mr Pavićevic was talking about, in fact, said one thought, the quality and conditions of life and the work of our students in primary and secondary schools. But it's not all the elements, it's one of the elements. It's a good thing the work is going to be done in multiple stages. This will improve the educational function of school and society, leading to greater efficiency in education and education. I have to say clearly and openly here, the last 20 years of the educational function of society has been reduced to zero. Believe it or not, you inherited, Mr. Minister, a project of violence in schools, and my little one reads, I guess I have a habit, every sentence and book that's been presented to us. Violence in Serbia's schools, I particularly point out, I will tell you why, so in the schools where she was presented to us as a project, psychologists worked. Believe it or not, there's no word on 300 pages about education, and that's the problem, that's the problem for the entire education system, because our education system has been dragged into a frenzy by psychologists, I'm not against them, who are dealing with the consequences, not the causes of violence. So it would be good to dedicate a series or series of symposiums related to the educational function of the school and society that has been abandoned for 20 years, to analyse all factors and failures. We can talk about murders every day, but we will in our work, in fact, in the future of people in 20 years what we have done about the system of education, because we are raising those who will feel in 20 years. I'm asking one question here essentially -- from 1990 until, let's say, to this day, so to say, for the last five years, we've had a broken state system in general after the bombing, the destruction of all sectors of life, our parents, this is the problem, Mr. Minister, those who were students of the 1990s, and they've been raised in an untrained society where the factors didn't work. The question arises – how can your parents raise their children? So there's a broader engagement in that direction. So I don't owe much, because there's a lot of problems in education and education that are inherited, but I think in general that you've come a good way, that you've touched some things that no one has touched, that your assistants have felt physically on themselves, because one of your associates has been physically attacked, that we have strongly and openly condemned in this Assembly, and we now condemn it, not only him, but some deans, or professors of the university, as by Mr Pavicevic dean or professor in Kosovo Mitrovica Mr. Kicevic. There is no force to stop us from transforming education and education on new grounds. It is our task, it is the task of Serbian citizens, and it is an alpha and omega of the survival of the state. It is true that education and education is the basis of all modernization. That's why the Prime Minister also said, two days ago, if you heard in the interview, that 2016 will be particularly dedicated to education and education. I call on the Members of Parliament, especially from the opposition benches, to vote in favour of this programme, because in this way, although they are not here, except for a few of them, five, as far as I can see, will at least contribute a little to the modernisation of Serbia for which, let's say, in the earlier period, they are truly guilty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29623	Thank you. On what basis, Mr. Pavicevic? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Based on Article 104, which defines the right to replication. Mr. Pavicevic, nor did he mention you at any time, your dean and your name. It has absolutely nothing to do with you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Can I explain, according to the Rules of Procedure? Don't explain it to me. Wait till I'm done, Mr. Pavievich. I know that you two, as two respected scientific workers, have to solve this problem of disagreement over the education system at the university or some public debate organised by a university group, but we as MPs are not obliged to listen to it. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Education! ) Well, we are on the subject of the agenda, but if you and Mr. Atlagic have different views on education, it is scientific work. So put it where it's supposed to go, and it's a university. We make laws. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Arsic and the honored guests of the Ministry, you have now, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Arsic, violated Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which defines the right to the replica of one of the People's MPs. This article provides that when another MP does not properly interpret or interpret in the wrong way the other MP, that the other MP has the right to reply. Also, when one of the people's messengers mentions another messenger of the people, but it was not appropriate, that this other Messenger of the people should have the right to reply. Mr Arsic, Mr Atlagic mentioned me once, so he mentioned me the second time, so he mentioned me the third time when, and I congratulate Mr Atlagic on the courage of Mr Atlagic, the word "honority" tied me to my actions in the National Assembly for the past year and month, Mr Arsic. Here, Mr. Atlagic now confirms it, but I also see Mr. Linta and the other SNS gentlemen. And, Mr. Arsic, I think this is an obvious example when one MP is entitled to a replica. I have to tell you that I don't understand why you're so restrictive in holding a session of the National Assembly with you, Mr. Arsic, when you've been chairing the National Assembly and chairing sessions mostly more flexiblely interpreting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask you now, Mr. Arsic, to accept that you have made a mistake and to give me the right to the replica, for two minutes, the MP and Professor Atlagic. Is that okay, Mr. Arsic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29625	I don't think so. I'll read about what we're having a debate about right now. So it's about the draft law to confirm the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. I do not experience that Mr Atlagic mentioned you and if he said "honority" that this applies to you. I guess we're here in the National Assembly, and it can apply to any one of us. If one of the MPs is head-on, I can't conclude it's a basis for replication either. The third time he mentioned you by name and last name, but he only mentioned your name and the name of your dean. If you disagree with him, with his view of education in Serbia, as one doctor of science with another doctor of science solve it where it is being solved. We pass a law that is of financial nature. One more thing, if the Committee on Science and Education were competent, you would be right, but the parent board for this law is the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Therefore, please allow us to complete the law of financial nature. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Why didn't you invite me to the board then, Mr Arsic? I don't deal with who gets on the board. All sessions are fully public and members of the defense must be informed by the service of the National Assembly, and anyone who wants to attend and take part in the work is welcome. The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29626	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, Mr Verbic, Mr Antonijevic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am above all pleased to be back on the agenda, and it is my special pleasure, as someone who has worked in education for many years, and today a MP, a representative of the citizens and a member of the Education Committee, which we have just today a great opportunity to talk about our schools, about improving the working conditions in them. Today we're talking about modernising schools, primary and secondary schools, we're talking about pre-university education. Of course, effective educational-experienced work requires a lot of components. One of them is just the working conditions and they mean schools, school buildings, but this project isn't just about them, it's about the equipment of our schools. The goal of all of this is to gain the quality of knowledge of our students, who are subject to educational and probationary work. Today, the financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank is worth 50m euros. He's directed right at modernizing our schools. Dear Ambassador Orlic detailed what the component means. I will take a brief look at this project that consists of three components, where the first component of building certain schools is. There are two high and ten elementary schools. The priority of building and upgrading schools is just to eliminate work in multiple shifts. In this way we will create optimal education in these schools as well. The two component concerns strategic development, strategic planning in the Republic of Serbia. We've already heard the details, so I won't repeat myself. For me, the particularly important component is component three, which refers to the construction, reconstruction or adaptation of primary and secondary schools across the Republic of Serbia. This component is both the most demanding in both technical and financial terms. Its completion is foreseen during this year 2015 and its completion in 2016. It is particularly important that many schools across Serbia are covered here. I have to point out that they're in that program and two high schools from Ivanzica. It is an upgrade to the gymnasium in Ivanjica and adaptation of space in technical school. This is extremely important for both students and educators in these two schools in my municipality. So, we will all agree that and how important investment in our school system and the equipment of schools is, so that we have modern teaching tools and that educational workers are able to realise modern forms of teaching, methods and teaching techniques. I will take advantage of the opportunity to point out, in my opinion, the most important problem at this time in school, which is the growing number of children, the growing number of students in our schools, the schools are being shut down, schools are being shut down, and not only in rural schools, but also in urban schools, that leads to less work and education workers themselves. On this issue which is a national issue, it is important that we have the co-operation of several ministries, of course, headed by the Ministry of Education, but other ministries must be involved, and I would say - it must be a national project, because we all know, the white plague and how it knocks on our door. In the education strategy, however, we have good solutions, and these solutions should be applied and realised. Of course, the economic aspect and current state of affairs in our country and great unemployment are important. I will say that in Serbia now we have fewer children, that the facilities remain empty, abandoned and increasingly collapse. It is also important to renovate these facilities as soon as possible. I'm going to point out two, let's say, ways we can do it, and it's all in the context of this agenda. Let's just say, first of all, I think it's a good example from the Regional Training Centre in Chačka and Moravia County, where we have a project of education centres, educational farms and knowledge parks, where all four local self-governments from this district have agreed and introduced this project into their strategic documents. I think that way we can revive schools where there are fewer or fewer children gone. The second example is, for example, from the Municipality of Ivanjica, an example of the project “University in Nature”. The project was agreed by the University of Belgrade, that the proposal is for students from the university to come to Golia, which is a nature park, a biosphere park, and that they have practical classes there, in those schools that are almost without children today. This is also a good example of modernising schools because we need to continue to develop and develop educational tourism and ambience education. You'll agree, our students have a lot of theoretical knowledge, they have a lot of information, but when these skills need to be applied and knowledge to be better quality, there are already some weaknesses. One school in one village in any village is the center of education, the center of education, education, but also the center of culture and sporting events. So if we shut down the departments, if we shut down the schools, in those places, villages and those places are gradually shut down. That's why we have to be responsible for the generations to come. Of course, I support the complete project of modernising the schools we're talking about today. In order for the realisation of this project to end in all its segments, we need to define the deadline today and that deadline is 31 December 2016. Finally, I would like to say that, with great satisfaction, together with the SNS MPs, in the voting day, of course, for this project, this contract concerning the modernisation of our schools, primary and secondary, throughout Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29627	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29628	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law that only enables education to develop in one segment. It's a prerequisite, but not a sufficient condition. There are now two tendencies in the modern approach to education. Is it one thing for us to have educated experts or people who have a greater culture? These two questions are divergent, not convergent by their nature. If we make a decision to go one way, we always have some negative things. However, it is now assumed that our students, given the rapid development of communicology and the development of the Internet, can quickly develop their own personal culture, and that schools need to be more prepared for the life that awaits them afterwards. On the other hand, maybe something that's even more important, so I'm glad you're here, the strategic approach continues. When we were in school, we were learning. That's why they were called classrooms. But it's an old principle, where we used to come in and factographically learn some knowledge. When was the Kosovo battle? That's not the basis of our education right now. It's very important that the professor is not the center, but that the students are the center around which everything turns. Not only that, imagine we now ask someone - what is Emperor Dushan? What would happen if Emperor Dushan hadn't conquered Greece, and the part that we don't understand or are alike, and that he turned his conquests west, that we had the same language, but different faith? What are the consequences, for example, of this Stefan Dusan IV Uroš, who is his official name, which are the consequences of all this, not – when he died. The other thing is very important in this sense that our students should always control the knowledge of their professors in order to awaken their creativity. That's very important. In this way, the professor in some way only directs students. There's one saying that so much has been lost in classrooms that have only been taught. It is very important for our students to wake up all of this and even be able to be constantly criticizing and thinking whether what the professor is telling them is true, even in explicit sciences. We can say for the famous Pythagorean theorem, which is a2 + b2 = c2, let's say – stop, what does that mean? Does this mean that the equality of the left and the right side is equal to or are the surfaces, and the surfaces are never exactly the same. In this way, we would learn to fish, not just to give them fish. Anyway, let me conclude, this law that's ahead of us is just a prerequisite for development. Mr. Minister, you are very responsible for how our future generations will think and what kind of workforce we will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29629	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Velinka Tosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29630	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister Verbic, Mr. Antonijevic, and the honourable fellow Members of the people, the respected citizens of Serbia, we all declare a better future for young and more perfect education. The school modernisation programme also leads us to confirm in action to show whether children and young people are really a priority in this society, or whether they are just wasted words and empty declarations suitable for easy collection of political points. As an educational worker, I had the opportunity to keep in touch with the children, I could sense their problems, sense their thinking, figure out their perspective. Their view must not be left out; it is understood by every dedicated teacher, educator, and parent. So first of all, I note that children have to recognize school as a pleasant, beautiful and modern environment, and the joy of that recognition will lead them to experience less stressful stay at school and school obligations. Schools with exhausting carpentry and a failed facade are not much of a recommendation for respect for knowledge and are not a good indicator of how much society appreciates education. It's a real attack on student motivation. On the other hand, an attractive ambience will give them the incentive to feel less anxious at school, and thus make it easier to acquire knowledge and skills. We will all agree unanimously that the dry and accumulated theoretical knowledge is not productive. It seems to me in no realm of spirit. We need to find ways to turn knowledge into experience, and experience will eventually create professionalism and art. The first step along the way to that goal is well - equipped cabinets. In particular, St. Sava High School in Loznica, a collective from which I come, is an important educational institution in my region, uniting the direction of chemistry, non-metallic and graphics, food technology, industrial pharmacies, medical professions and personal services. The school is attended by 880 students, and that's a large number. For all the educational profiles mentioned, practical knowledge is valuable. That's why, in addition to my dedicated colleagues and the intellectual powers of our brilliant students, we need cabinets, valid computer equipment, physical halls, and others. You'd be surprised if you had a chance to hear the children responsibly and self-awarely select educational profiles, assessing their own abilities, but also the needs of the labour market. Children with a high average choose vocational schools, especially medical professions, because of the inconceivability of whether they will study. These children need a secure way to love their future job and gain insight into everything their profession carries. Each individual student of such an educated generation will be trained, trained and competitive in the labour market and will be proof that we have made a real effort to help young people acquire knowledge, skills and skills. Would you go to a hairdresser with perfect theoretical knowledge and poor skills? The proposal for modernization of schools provides the possibility of modernising education, creating conditions to develop expertise rather than enriched knowledge. Similar needs include other schools in Loznica, economic and technical school. The famous Loznička high school and elementary school, cradles of young minds. I especially note that the gymnasiums for physical education represent Achilles’s fifth most secondary schools in Loznica. The key to the proper development and health of our children is adequately equipped halls and arranged playgrounds, and should it be noted that health is a prerequisite for a happy and fulfilling life. In order to improve the conditions, large funds are needed, but the objectives of this investment exceed each stake. The funds have so far been defined for schools in Loznica, but I would like to see more in the future of this monetary investment, especially in my high school "Sveta Sava". I am pleased that the Serbian government is proposing a proposal on school modernisation, as this once again shows a mature and concrete drive to invest in education and the future of children and young people. Therefore, there must be no reflection and no doubt but should be firmly supported by this proposal. That is why I call on all my fellow Members of Parliament to support this proposal in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29631	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dalibor Radičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29632	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, Mr Antonijevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us today the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, as regards the Modernisation of Schools Programme. The contract was concluded on 8 June 2010 and was confirmed by the Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, aimed at increasing the supply and quality of pre-university education in the Republic of Serbia. The project covers three components, where the component one includes 10 primary schools, as well as two secondary schools. New construction, expansion, as well as school completion are foreseen, and all with the aim of eliminating the existence of work in more than two shifts. One of the schools covered by this programme is the "Ljupce Nikolic" school in Alexinac. A school attended today by about 1,000 students working with a lack of space. Every school year due to the quality of teaching and teaching staff itself, an increasing number of children are enrolled in this school. In 2012, the second quarter began the work on expanding this school. The works were running with the dynamics, until at some point they stopped. They stopped because the contractor who gave the most favourable offer and the best price, did not financially fail and went bankrupt. From that moment on, there are even bigger problems in this school. Instead of obtaining the necessary space to carry out teaching activities by the end of 2012, because of unfinished work and existing space, it is not possible to use fully without mentioning the fact that there is a construction site in the school yard, which poses a potential risk of harming children. Only thanks to the sacrificed work of teachers and school workers on several occasions was it prevented from harming children. Confirming this financial contract, i.e. changing and supplementing this financial contract, gives rise to conditions for selecting a new job provider and extending the school, specifically this school, and thereby bringing the facility to its purposes. The financial agreement envisioned that the Republic of Serbia, can submit a request to the bank for payment of the tranche of credit up to 15 days before the end date of availability, which was 31 December 2014. By amending and supplementing this financial contract, the implementation period for the primary school "Ljupce Nikolic" would be from the second quarter of 2012 to the fourth quarter of 2015. Given the degree of project realization of the component of this financial contract, this should represent enough time for the facilities and projects to be completed. In view of the progress made by the SNS parliamentary group, as I will personally support this draft law on the confirmation of contracts and amendments to the financial contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. This is the occasion I call upon the other Members to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29633	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29634	I would like to say something concrete about the law that speaks of confirming changes and additions to the financial agreement of the modernisation programme. I would say something that we may not have heard so far, the essence of today's agreement that we are talking about is redefine in fact the date of the completion of a major project that began in 2010 and it is not finished and the practical trust of business to one of the most relevant institutions few Serbian citizens know about, which is so-called. The science ministry project management task force, which is actually called the JUP Research and Development Unit, Belgrade, which has actually started from doing a major project called the "Technological Park of Serbia", but which has essentially shown by its work that it has personnel, that it has capacity, that many of the jobs in this infrastructure can be done in general when modernising schools are also pre-university institutions that it can deal with this, especially when it comes to European Investment Bank methodologies. So that's what needs to be said and it should really be commended, and that's what you as ministers are, and I think you'll stay in writing, and you've really worked with such a reference institution. Of course, there are people and academic citizens who think that maybe this institution should also support in one part to get all possible international certificates and be one institution that will really take over, not only the management of projects of education, education and science, but also infrastructure at all in Serbia, because we do not have such institutions that can deal with infrastructure projects and usually we are told - there are no people with certificates, there are no institutions in Serbia that can go out in international tenders. So I say, we need to support this institution, and what this contract gives, is that this third phase, practically the contract that started in 2010, the first phase ended, practically by 2014, which was related to certain activities from high school, but activities related to information technologies, then certain management and planning in terms of funding, means equipment itself, when it comes to modernising schools that are related to equipment, not buildings, means infrastructure, but the very equipment and the way the methodology, in which the students will work. That is why this third phase is very important and therefore I think it was good that the programme that was set out for the third phase of 16 January 2014 and when the signed co-operation protocol with "Jupol" research and development was practically done and entrusted to these jobs and handovers last year in March was very important. Why am I saying that? Because if you look at the reference list of this institution that deals with these projects in general, it was next to the Technology Park on Starar, which began construction in 1988, the move was almost a year and a half ago, worked also by Nano Center Block 39 in Belgrade, the research site "Petnica", the adaptation of UNESCO space, the scientific and technological park in Nis, apartments for young researchers in Nis, a system for centralized supply of consumer material, capital equipment, public procurement for the need for business in general of all scientific research institutions and the regional problem of housing. What the programme for modernising the current facilities, besides these schools, includes also the restoration of a certain piece of the foundation of the Faculty of Chemistry in Belgrade, the Centre for the Promotion of Science, the Svilajnac Natural Centre, the central building of the University of Novi Sad, the Scientific and Research Park of the second phase in Novi Sad, apartments for young scientists Block 32, apartments for young researchers Kragujevac, Centres of Excellence of the University of Kragujevac. There, it is an institution that will do the modernisation of schools and that all Serbian citizens should know, that Serbia, means it has such potential to deal with projects especially when improving the modernisation of education and science in Serbia. I think that today, in fact, we should send one message from here that no political party can be against modernization, that we are all here on a joint mission and that for this protocol, or I apologize, for confirming the treaty, the agreement needs all parties to vote. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for coming today to propose a law like this and simply show you essentially what this Serbia and this government stand for. Of course, in voting day, we will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29635	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29636	Thank you, I'm giving up the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29637	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29638	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the very end and so a few more sentences, as we usually do. I thank you in front of the SNS parliamentary group, colleagues who took part in today's debate, thank you for the words of support and eliminate just a few more concerns which we seem to have been able to hear today about the comments about whether it was two schools or more of them, so we heard it during the opening session, and this is what counterpart Tomic said once more. Except for two schools that are explicitly named in the accompanying material, the material for today's session, it's a certain failure by just two rows of size. As we have said, the implications of what we are discussing today are dramatically greater with the story of two hundred buildings and Malta not so many schools in Serbia. I think it's good for Serbia to hear when we mentioned 51 schools in the first stage. So 51 schools where there are preparations for the realisation of jobs we're talking about, for expansion, for adaptation, for promotion, for equipment so far away that it can begin as soon as tomorrow and that will happen when we finish our work and declare what is before us in the National Assembly. Fifty-one schools, primary and secondary schools in Serbia include two schools in Valjevo, one school in Šapac, one school in Loznica, four projects of this kind in Ljubovija, one school in Krupanj, one school in Ljig, the school in Zablje, two other schools in Belgrade, the school in Despotovac, two schools in Svilajnac, the school in Kragujevac, two schools in Petrovac in Mlava, three schools in Užica, two schools in Sjenica. My colleague Milosevic mentioned the facilities used by two schools in Ivanjica, two schools in Cačka, two in Novi Pazar, one in Tutin, four projects of this type in Rekovic. School of Economics and Trade in Kralje, school in Knic, school in Smederva Palanca, school in the Municipality of Medjana in Nis, school in Soko Banja, two projects in Alexinac, school in Doljevac, school in Shop, school in Vranja, school in Vladic's Han, three schools in Zajecar, school in Backo Palanca and two schools in Topoli. I'm counting 51 schools, they're going to see great results of what we're dealing with today, and as far as we're going in tomorrow, I repeat once again, in the public procurement process for more than 80 schools. After that, in phase three for 70 schools, we'll do the same job. Black on a white, phenomenal result, something we can be proud of, a result that certainly belongs to local communities that affect this project on their own, give a significant contribution, but first of all, to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry and I think we can only be proud of the fact that behind these results, these results, we compare them with, say, a 2009 average, so from a period just before we entered a project like this when 13 schools were able to equip and edit in this way. So let's compare that number to this number that we're covering right now, with this amount of work, and it's more than clear how important it is and how much of what we're doing today is. So again, the thing for pride is the fact that this result through the Ministry and through the Government is achieved by the support and work that this assembly of the National Assembly has done. When it comes to supporting this project and besides all those projects that lead this society forward, SNS support will be as strong as ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-18-0.u29639	Thank you. On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a unique search of the bill. Since we have carried out a unique search, and since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of procedure in the voting day to decide on a draft law on confirming the Treaty of Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank in general. We're done with today's work and we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
