ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27189	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that a quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists when the agenda is established, if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Branko Ružić, Sinisa Maksimovic, Mirjana Dragas, Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and uniform search on proposals for legislation from the agenda under points 5 and 6. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Interior Minister Milorad Todorovic, Interior Ministry Secretary Tamara Zlatic, legal adviser for normative affairs at the Ministry of the Interior Secretariat, Rade Krunic, Assistant Chief of Police and Natas Ignatovic, Head of Police Administration. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 5 and 6, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that under Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for an Amending Law between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of the Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual recognition of driving licences. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, the interior minister, want a word? The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Private Security adopted the National Assembly in December 2013, which for the first time in 20 years, i.e. since 1993, has established a normative framework for the regulation of the matter of the private security sector. The law was the result of intensive co-operation between the MUP and the professional representatives, primarily gathered around the Private Security Association of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Since the entry into force of the law, the maximum pawnage of all the engaged capacities of the MUP, we have successfully tackled the challenges that its implementation has brought. Sublegislative acts required to fully regulate the system of professional education and training of private security officers to develop a training programme, to prescribe all necessary conditions that legal persons and entrepreneurs must meet in order to be given the authority to carry out training, to prescribe uniforms of members of private security, to use means of coercion, etc. It is clear from the above mentioned areas of regulation of sublegislative acts how complex their work was and was required from different aspects, especially given that the law and sublegislative acts in question set up the legal regulations of the private security sector which had been quite unregulated in the previous 20 years in our country's legal system. When it comes to the application of the law, I would like to point out that, in addition to the adoption of sublaws for full implementation, it was necessary to make other changes in the system that would allow its application, starting with organisational changes within the framework of the MUP, introducing new fees for public administration bodies, education of certain bodies within the competent authorities, such as the Commission for conducting expert examinations and so on. The intensive work since the law came to date created conditions for the application of the law even though various criticisms in this regard could be heard in the previous period. I would like to point out that the application of the Private Security Act does not depend solely on sublaws, there are elements of the law that are absolutely directly applied, as can be applied so far to the acts adopted. On the other hand, we have a situation that, in addition to great pressure to allow full implementation of the law, there is also a certain lack of interest in economic sector entities, which is witnessed by the fact that out of a total of 29 authorised operators to carry out training, only six really carry out training. In a desire to express our understanding of the private sector by respecting objective circumstances that have made it difficult for us to fully comply within the legal deadline that expires on June 5th of this year, and I must stress that there is a technical error in the law of May 5th, I apologize for that. So 18 months of alignment expires on June 5th. They propose to amend and supplement the laws that are before you. Based on the analysis carried out in accordance with the powers conferred so far on the exercise of training and estimated capacity, according to what colleagues provided, so if training is done at this pace, then we could have 32,000 candidates who could pass training by January 2016. I would also like to present a few of the facts that contribute to the fact that this is not just a series of delays in the deadlines for compliance with the law and that the competent authorities are working intensively to ensure its full application. To date, the ministry has brought in six regulations that allow for the full implementation of activities aimed at auctioning private security entities, from conducting training, passing a professional exam to issuing licences. An important issue has been settled, which is often a topic of concern in the private security sector, which is the way of using the means of coercion with the legal provisions that largely regulate this issue. The Regulation surrounds this topic with unambiguously prescribed conditions and means of use of the means of coercion. The issue of the uniform of private security officers with clearly prescribed restrictions in terms of the use of the name and the inscriptions that are being imitated by the state authorities has also been regulated. The MUP has also created conditions within its organisational structure for issuing authorisation to conduct private security training and licensing. Amendments to the Internal Regulation and to the systematization of posts in the MUP have educated new organisational units to deal with monitoring and implementation, supervision of the application of the law. In the coming days, a expert advice will be educated to improve the performance of private security and deactive activities and develop public private partnership in this area, raising existing public and private sector co-operation to a higher level. The amendment of the law on the extension of deadlines has provided an opportunity to improve two segments of the law, which does not require the entry into the already established system in this area, but relates to the improvement and clarification of previous solutions. This does not mean that there is no room for further development of promotions in the establishment of this framework, but it will be subject to further analysis when it begins with full application of the law. The draft law clarifies the provisions of the Private Security Act relating to the definition of the obligation of secure facilities. Anyone who read the above provision could see that the envisaged definition was very broadly set up including all objects of strategic importance, particular importance and importance for the defence of the Republic of Serbia. Such a definition of necessarily provided facilities would not be disputed if it were not contained in the Private Security Act which stipulates that the protection of these facilities is carried out with the involvement of entities carrying out the work of private security or as only a safeguarding activity. This is precisely what created the need to amend the law in that definition to exempt objects whose protection has already been prescribed by specific regulations in the area of defence carried out by the state authorities. Finally, the last proposed addition of the law seems to imply the introduction of a new charge in the form of a taxi to issue a ID for private security officers. So this is not a parafiscal imposition, not a new commitment to the economy. I would like to remind myself that according to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes for Files and Actions, the Republic Administrative Tax is charged to the Authority, but the regulations governing the budgetary system allow the obligation to pay fees to be prescribed by other laws while its height can be determined by sublaw. That's exactly the possibility we've decided to take advantage of by predicting the addition of a member who regulates the issuance of ID for security officers. This will allow for a simpler adjustment of the amount of tax in the new circumstances and real costs incurred through the production and publishing activities of that document that can be changed if the prescribed form, their constituent elements, manufacturers and the like occurs. I remind you that all of this does not affect the very height of the prescribed fee and the methodology to be applied in the future, it is prescribed and is the same for calculating all taxis, subject to the verification of the Ministry of Finance. As for the second draft law before us today, it concerns confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania with mutual recognition of driving licences. Our motive for the conclusion of this agreement was the need for further strengthening, improving police co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Albania. On the other hand, Serbian citizens will be greatly facilitated by resolving technical but important issues, such as allowing them to drive vehicles while staying in the Republic of Albania without additional requirements regarding the submission of a theoretical and practical exam. This is very important, not only because of the time saving and the engagement in order to obtain the right to drive, but also because of significant savings for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which would result in new training and passing tests as well as the document itself. The adoption of this bill creates an effective formal legal mechanism for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who, due to business or living circumstances, remain in the Republic of Albania quickly and efficiently on the basis of their driver's license, already acquired according to the legal order of the Republic of Serbia as well as an Albanian driver's license. The subject-matter agreement has covered through 10 members issues of importance for achieving its objective, i.e. mutual recognition of those documents. It is thus agreed that the right to replace the driver's licence shall be granted by nationals of foreign signatories who have been granted residence and stay on the territory of the other party. It is also an obligation for each person to apply for proof of health, and the age required is determined according to national law of the State on whose territory the recognition of a driving licence is sought. Of course, the component of the agreement is also the accompanying forms that you can see. So, for these reasons, in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and the good and international relations that the state is developing and in order to make it much easier for our citizens to stay in the territory of the Republic of Albania in this way, I urge you to vote for this bill as well as for the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27191	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27192	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues, above all, before the very presentation of the draft laws that are on the agenda today and that we are discussing today, on behalf of the Democratic Party and the SPO, I would like to take this opportunity and to congratulate all citizens who are celebrating Djurdevdan today on the cross. As regards the very proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act, in the previous meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, more precisely on 26 November 2013, the Law on Private Security was adopted and for the first time legally regulated this matter, with an estimated up to 60,000 employees. After adopting such a proposed solution in the previous meeting, and Serbia has stopped being an exception, i.e. it has ceased to be the only country in the region where the sector simply did not have its legal foothold and its legal arrangement. Since 1993, when those regulations that regulated social self - protection were abolished, there have been several almost controversial attempts to regulate this matter, i.e. this area, gave private security which would be placed under the auspices of a legal text. Immediately after the adoption of this law in 2013, we could see that the continuation and sustainability of the private security activity in Serbia, and also in the EU countries and at all in the world, was caused by the growing demand of the private security market. Today, we are discussing amendments to the Private Security Act, which includes five amendments, or five additions. Among them special attention, at least in my view, is worth this Article 5, which, as many times as we have so far, is again in the situation, not only on this bill, but also on many others, that we simply come into a situation where such a single proposed solution provides for a delay in the application of the law. Although it was prescribed that the rules for the enforcement of this law would be adopted within six months of the date of entry into force, it was found that something like this was simply not possible and hence today we are also discussing this, but also the remaining four amendments, of which practically three, which I mentioned, represent the consequence of this addition, of course, of Article 1 of this Bill, which defines the required facilities. The truth is that we were late not only with the adoption of the Private Security Act, but it seems to me that this trend of delay continues today and I mean not only late for lateness in that literal sense, but I mean late for staff training, I mean late for the licensing of private security firms themselves, but it's late for the adoption of sublegal regulations that are large, but the fact is that the law was passed in 2013, and today 2015 and the justification cannot be a fact – we have brought six sublegal acts, we have only one left, since there are seven sublegal acts in the domain of our ministry and our resor. So calling on such a thing simply doesn't have its basis. Private security associations, as they have pointed out themselves, have absolutely nothing against high criteria, have nothing against high standards, training and licensing because otherwise it should not be, but has a concern that simply with such and existing capacities work cannot end within this new deadline that today's changes and additions are forecasting. It is quite correct, they note, that if there are 20,000 interested, and there are more, and by day one commission manages to examine up to 15 people on condition that there are even a sufficient number of committees in question, then they notice that there is a real deadline for completing training and for licensing about October 2018. A year. Of course, training costs are high and they're hard to fund. It is also a fact to be taken into account and to be taken into account. If the fact of a very low position is added to all of this, and it is, a very low position of our country's private security in relation to other EU countries, but not only EU countries, but also countries in our immediate environment, as well as the fact that it is absolutely at the lowest levels in terms of labour prices, which are nothing more than miserable, then hence, it logically results in all of what is actually an attitude that has been achieved by researching the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy, which is that there is a very small interest and motivation for workers to participate in the process itself, and that due to the relatively high cost of training and passing tests by a large number of small companies will not survive such licensing at all. Of course, this should also be taken into account because the result of this could be if something like this is not taken into account that we get some monopolies in the area of the private security sector. If we start from training costing about 200 euros per worker, and if small and medium-sized enterprises are barely surviving anyway, you literally push them into the field of grey business and unfortunately nothing remains for them but simply living there. The lack of interest of workers to train is also present, but this lack of interest is not due to what I mentioned earlier, it is not indifference because workers are not going to do something, but it is primarily very low income, in fact very low wages that I have already mentioned that they are at a rather miserable level and amounting to some twenty thousand dinars per month, and these people have to do too, and these people have to attend hundreds of hours of training, and this will condition that existing companies will simply not engage, will not be able to engage, or educate absolutely all of the labour they would have to, or the question of whether those who are licensed will actually respond to the needs and requirements of the market. What also remains present as a major problem, and it is quite visible, is the issue of the security of cafes, the issue of club security, and what is the worst, and what we can constantly read in black chronicles, is the question of the security of the rafts themselves. I think such an issue requires urgent regulation and as soon as possible. To be honest, these are all present problems of the existing Private Security Act. I expected these changes and additions to be more than just technical character, and actually today, as we have them, they are absolutely technical. I thought we were going to discuss some fundamental changes today, that today's debate would be more quality, but it can't be because these existing changes that we're discussing today simply don't allow. When I mentioned the fundamental changes, I thought, first and foremost, of what is said in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which is actually to regulate the way private security is involved in the protection system, clearly and precisely defining the engagements of more than 200 companies dealing with private security in our country. You can't really, and I don't think that there's supposed to be a situation that we had on accidents like last year's floods, when trained people were assigned to fill bags, instead of doing some much more complex jobs and doing some much more demanding work to help out in a situation like last year, so in an emergency situation. It is good that the addition of Article 4 has been carried out, not only to criticise and the existing, still valid, solution, as well as the changes and additions that we are discussing today. It is good, therefore, that the addition of Article 4 has been carried out, since this current provision still exceeds the domain of the Private Security Act, while fully ignoring the rules in the area of defence governing the matter of protection of certain categories of objects against the importance of defending the country, but also regulations that provide that the protection of certain facilities for the Republic of Serbia is carried out by police. Also, the provision in question failed to exempt objects from the facility which were, of course, defined by such a change from the scope of the Private Security Act. The reasons why it is proposed that the law enter into force before the eighth day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" are as follows: "The deadline for bringing the private sector into line with the provisions of the Private Security Act which is subject to the extension of the proposed amendments to the law expires on 5 May 2015. Where the deadline in question would be extended without a return on the law, it is necessary to take effect by 5 May 2015. For these reasons, it is proposed that the Law enter into force on the first day of its publication in the “Official Messenger”. “ At the very beginning of your presentation, we could hear that it was a technical error and that it was actually not May 5th, it was June 5th. But my question is, would such a technical mistake simply be forgiven if I were to submit some bill or amendment and say, "I'm sorry, I made a mistake, and it's so nice to get into the procedure and nothing at all?" When a bill is sent, this is about the law from your portfolio, it must be taken into account that all technical errors of the I.D. are made. So, according to this stance on May 5th, there was a correction to something like this, and that means that there has just been a feedback of the Private Security Act. As for the analysis of the effects on page 10. The draft law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act, I think they are quite well systematised, so that they aim to achieve what is at all, is a comprehensive regulation of all private security jobs, the protection of certain facilities, but also jobs and work and private and natural persons in the field of private planning, then arrangements for legal and natural persons licensing and the licensing of private individuals to carry out private security, arrangements for the way in which jobs are done, private security of officials, private security of keeping records and supervision of law enforcement. I have already mentioned that the objectives are quite well systemised and I really hope that after the application of this law, they will be seen in practice. Furthermore, as regards the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual recognition of driving licences, of course in the voting day, because we think it is a good thing that we have a draft law on the agenda today, the SPO parliamentary group and the DHSS will vote in favour of this proposed law. I have to look back briefly and say that in 2013, as I said on November 26th, for the first time in the Private Security Act, today, on May 6, 2015, we have a bill on amendments and additions to the Private Security Act, and I fear that the deadline set by this bill will simply not be feasible, and that we will be in a position to make some changes and complements again. What I'm finally saying is that the more changes and additions to one legal text, the more legal uncertainty it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27193	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27194	Thank you first of all for supporting and understanding why some of these provisions we had to introduce, and it really was a complex matter that my colleagues would say, we started with white paper, so there was no earlier frame from which it came. What I want to clarify is two things about a deadline. We've been thinking, we've been doing a projection for those smaller trainers who can train 25 to 40 people, 40 candidates, and that's why we've made a projection like this, but we just got one amendment, I think Mr. Djurisic, to move the deadlines on April. I am prepared as minister to accept this amendment because I think it might add another additional deadline, to make sure, in any case, that we do not have another session of parliament to extend this. The other thing is retroactiveness. I apologized to the National Assembly. I really don't like any technical mistakes that are being stolen, what to do, that's a thing that isn't essential, but it is important for Parliament, it is important for the Ministry, too, because it shows that we have to change these things. However, this cannot be about retroactivity, because it is about the text of the reasoning of the law, and in the very explanation, since the reasoning is not only the text of the law, it can never be about retroactiveness. Anyway, I think we made a mistake. I tried to explain it, what was really an intensity, and I think you understood that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27195	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Vujici has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27196	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Unique Serbia participated as a parliamentary party in the adoption of this law in 2013 as well. Today, after two years, we have shifts, but I would characterize them as technical changes. The essence of the law remains the same, which means we've passed a good law then. What matters most, of the four or five things that are now being changed by this law, are the deadlines for starting to apply. So now they're going on January 1, 2016, and I think there are perfectly logical and explaining reasons. You've hardly been able to make an assessment to train a sufficient number of people, i.e. Interested candidates for the preparation of all the accompanying organisations, both when it comes to the Ministry and when it comes to legal persons who need to work on the training of these people. The law treats a large number of people, at this point, as far as I'm concerned, with a number of 40,000 to 60,000 people currently in these jobs. What's very important is that there are over 40,000 registered weapons in this sector, 40,000 pieces, so some things don't need to be rushed. Still, there are serious licenses being given here, people getting IDs, and tomorrow they'll be more likely to be in some risky situations. Of course, if this preparation is well done, above all, the training that has been told a lot, the chances are that the incident situations will be very little in the future. The extenuating circumstance for your explanation today precisely because of the shift in these deadlines is that period of 20 years. So, from 1993 to 2013, unlike all countries and the environment, we didn't do anything. Then, I feel free to say, in a press release and a desire to even ourselves with countries in the environment, in 2013, and passed this law. So far, as far as I know, you've issued 17 powers to training centres, and we have 27 demands. I see you've been doing some evaluations by the number of interested people compared to the number of classes that each candidate is obliged to pass. If we take the obligation to have five people from the Ministry of the Interior in the commission, I believe you've reached an optimal deadline and in January 2016 we can expect to apply this law. What I've been paying attention to in conversations with people who do this job and in comments that have been made at different forums are the following things. At the time when a tender for a certain number of perpetrators is opened in these sectors, it is usually calculated with a figure that is much less than the minimum personal income. It is entirely illogical to have a trained man who is unbalanced, who is equipped with the means necessary to carry out such a task, and to bring an entrepreneur or a legal person who engages him in the situation that he needs to literally donate certain funds to get the job. What my answer to all of them has been these days, and I believe that you agree with that, is exactly the application of this law, because at that moment everyone will have to have a mandatory uniform. So these are some of the costs that are equal to all of them. Everyone will have to have a registered employee and won't be able to calculate with the number whether the worker is in training or not. He'll have his license this time. There will be one record of all licensed people. So in 2016, I think we're going to introduce this order for the first time in 20 years in one serious dam, which is private security. As for the JS parliamentary group, you will certainly have support in these changes this time too. We also have before us a draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual recognition of driving licences. Of course, we'll support this, too. I just want to draw your attention once again, of course, because of the success that you and your ministry and your associates have so far shown in the performance of extremely responsible jobs, you will continue to enjoy the support of the JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27197	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27198	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, guests from the Ministry, fellow MPs, today we are discussing two laws. The first is the Law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Albania on the validation of driving licences, which our parliamentary group will support. It is good to pass laws that will facilitate the life, work, business of our country's citizens and citizens of neighbouring countries in the region, which should all lead to better co-operation and economic progress. The second law is a real picture of the government's work in the last year or three years. Because in the right way, in our opinion, it reflects how this government works, or does not work, we will not support this law. I would use this time at my disposal to paint that picture of the government that's seen in each of these five members, how many amendments and additions to the Private Security Act there are. This is likely, when it is inserted into statistics, to be another reform law, such as all the laws that the Government is proposing, and the Assembly adopts, which is, behold, wonders, as well as more than 60% of the laws that we have passed over the last year, proposed to adopt by emergency procedure. Why an emergency procedure? Because someone didn't do their job, their job he gave himself a deadline for. The Assembly adopted the Private Security Act on 26 November 2013. The law provides for a sublegal act to be adopted within six months, and for the next 12 months to coordinate the business of legal persons performing the work under this law and to train people to work as private security. That deadline expires in a month. We are today discussing extending the deadline because work has not been done in time. It's natural to ask a question of responsibility. Responsibility, that's one word this government doesn't know. There are various kinds of responsibilities, political, disciplinary, criminal, moral. It's something the ministers in the government don't know, something about moral responsibility, and the minister of defense above all. Then, instead of talking about responsibility, the minister tells us about how hard it has been to make sublegal documents and says – six sublegal documents have been adopted. Six sublegal documents have been written in 17 months. These documents have a total of 75 members. Of which, at the end of each of these six is a member who speaks of entry into force. So it took the ministry and the minister 17 months, instead of six, to write six sublegal documents of 69 members. That's what you write four members a month would write in that period. So once a week you write one article. I don't know how complicated it can be that it takes you a week to write one member of the sublegal document. Was that the reason, this big job in writing these sublegal documents, is that what the minister learned at John Edzvid University, it would be good to know who John Edzvid is in general, that it takes you a week to write it? It's a sentence a day. Now we can go according to these members, five members as many as this reform law has. The first member, they say themselves – when the law was passed, a broad definition of what is being provided in private, which objects and we forgot that there are facilities provided by the military and police under some other laws. We now prescribe these other laws into this law, as some doctorates are prescribed, so there is no need to talk about it afterwards. Article 2, which had one sentence, if this change was adopted, would have three sentences giving the minister the authority to determine the amount of tax. One of the main grudges of all the people who favour this country are the heights and number of taxis they have to pay. The government promised a reduction of taxis and parafiscal charges three years ago. And what's the score? It was 360-2012, 370, now it's 384. With this, we're going to have another new fee - 385. Where's the fight here for better business conditions, for economic development? Nowhere. Where are the results? They're gone. There are more unemployed citizens, there are fewer salaries, there are fewer pensions. That's the result of this government and you can see it in this article. There's talk, it's done differently. Members of the 3rd and 4th of this law shall be engaged in the movement of deadlines. It wasn't enough for the government six months to pass a sublegal act, it was 17, and now it comes to teat and comes to parliament and asks for an additional deadline, to move another seven months after which legal persons will comply with their business with this law, and to train those people who will work in private security. And what has the minister been doing in the past year, how long has he been a minister, that this long delay doesn't happen? Did he find out who was responsible for the victims of last year's floods? Did he find out who attacked the journalist Davor Pasalic? Did he have any interest in who the amateurs who shot Mish Bek were? Or he was saving babies on the highway...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27199	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27200	I'm talking about what the minister's been doing or hasn't been doing in the past year, because because of his work, or because of his unhappiness...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27201	When the minister submits with the prime minister a report on his work, then you will be able to say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27202	I'm talking about why we're discussing this law today, where it is determined that the minister did not do his job, his ministry. I'm talking about it and I'm asking you to let me finish. Or did the Minister deal with the Protector of Citizens? And what happened in his private life 22 years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27203	Mr. Djurishic, I beg you to return to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27204	It's the minister's radio. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Is it forbidden? It's not forbidden. It's not forbidden. But here, Minister, I beg you, three years ago the president of your party then, now the President of the Republic, came out of this building with sacks and said, "Someone was stealing votes! “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ”
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27205	Mr. Djurishic, if you haven't noticed, your microphone is off. I'm asking you to return to the agenda. Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27206	Dear Chairman, I am speaking in principle about how the minister worked and how the results of his work, or work, led to today's debate on this law. I'm asking you to let me finish, I'm talking about how the Ministry didn't do the job in six months, how much this congregation majority, or the same congregation majority, adopted and given a deadline to the minister, was not done in six months, but was done in 17 months. I'm talking about responsibility, and I'm talking about what the minister did or didn't do at the time. Please let me finish. If you have so much free time to explore everything that's happened, I beg you, investigate who stole the votes. The President of the Republic said: “That will be the first thing I will do! “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ”
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27207	Mr. Djurishich, your microphone's not working again, if you haven't noticed. As I said, when the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior and the entire government file a report, please speak of it then, and now it's about the law. It's not the first time this assembly has extended deadlines. They extended the deadlines and the governments that you supported and none of the MPs who then did not support the government discussed this way in this assembly. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27208	You and I, Mr. Arsic, we know what you said at the end of the day isn't true. That's not true. And lies are also something that marked the work of this government. It's not true that it's May 5th deadline. And the minister apologized and said - it was a mistake. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27209	Excuse me, Mr. Djurishich. Mr. Kariæu... (John Karic, from the scene: he cursed my mother. I didn’t hear him do it, but I heard you throw him away, long before there was any discussion between you and him. So I ask you not to throw people's MPs and do not disturb Mr. Djurisic in further work. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27210	Your Honor, the only one who's bothering me today is you, and I don't know who to complain to, because you're the one holding everything in your hands. So, a lie, like a lie when we talk about the Law on "Belgrade on Water", so the prime minister says -- it will all be built in four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27211	Mr. Djurisic, we have a law that regulates "Belgrade on Water". Let me remind you, since you have objections to my work, Article 108. Rules of Procedure, Rule 1. - The work at the National Assembly is being taken care of by the president of the National Assembly. Article 106(1) - The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. So I ask you to imitate your discussion to Article 106(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly brought by your majority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27212	Dear Chairman, I will speak as I think it is appropriate to talk about such a bill that shows all the incompetence of the lying government that has managed Serbia in the last year.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27213	Mr. Djurishic, this is the last time I tell you, I have two choices. Either I begin to give you warnings until you take away your words, which you obviously want, or to set a break until you finally have a discussion that will be in accordance with Article 106(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27214	I ask you to put this time you've taken away from me now in the time for discussion, which I no longer know how much it is, given that you've interrupted me several times in the exhibition. The government said in the light of the law, it started with some kind of mathematics that resembles me in a way that counts for state finances to be able to train all people who need to do private security jobs by the end of the year. Now something's multiplying there, as long as it takes 17 working days times the number of centers. That number of center ministers, currently working, is six, so we heard from your associate yesterday on the board. Seventeen received credentials, but 27 applied. Now I'm asking you. That math you did, that you said you thought it could be done at the time by the end of the year, did you, since I haven't been able to read it several times, to see if you were doing it based on six training centres or 17 or 27? For this reason, we have submitted an amendment to the extension of the deadline so that you do not come here again at the end of the year, and we have explained that from the hard work that you haven't found who the amateurs who shot Beka were, or who was stealing votes, or who were the hooligans who were the beautiful name of Zoran Djindjic Street in Ratko Mladic. You say - we must, we need a new deadline. That's why I invite you to accept our amendment that gives you the year that you predicted when you passed the law as a deadline for this job to be completed by a legal person who deals with security and by natural persons who need to undergo training. All of this, and your anxiety today, I think of the chairman and the parliamentary majority, when it comes to this law, which is the picture and opportunity of your work in these years, tells us that we are on the right track, that changes in Serbia will happen quickly and that all of your stories about how you do, how best, how most you reform, how better life is about to happen, will fall into the water very quickly, Mr. Minister. I remind you of the word responsibility. Share that with your government colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27215	Mr. Minister, did you ask for a word? The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27216	Responsibility is the right thing to do. You know, when you think about 155 months, or how long it's been since 2000 to November 2013, that no member, not a single letter about this matter, shows how responsible the then power that was thinking so much was, holding all the levers in its hands in various formats, which had the President of the Republic at the head of the Supreme Defence Council dealing with the matter of security. They were absolutely responsible for Serbian citizens and wrote zero members, zero sentences, zero laws dealing with this matter. Zero. That's the result of the work, and you'll see in some other areas is far below zero unfortunately. Since here, when we talk about this law, I must first say that by the end of April of the month, the Ministry issued 29 powers to natural and legal persons to carry out professional training to carry out private security work. Until today, that training is only being conducted in six centres, but I have to tell you, this is not necessarily an education, we have issued licences to those who want to do so, who want to conduct training. He wants to do training, he wants to sign up, how many people? That depends on the market. That doesn't depend on the M.O.P., the M.O. did its job. As far as this is concerned, I've been a minister for 12 months that's true, but it's my predecessor who brought it, to say whose proposal this law was passed on, we've actually made an effort to regulate this matter for the first time in 20 years. I have to tell you that, I know that you may imagine, I'm not sure you'll have a chance in the executive bodies of the government at some point, but I'm sure you imagine the minister is passing the law by, or whatever, any sublegal act by not consulting anyone, but by writing and sending them and saying, "That's 660 regulations, it's all passed, we can do this afternoon." We have embarked on a complex procedure in which with civil society organisations, the Chamber of Commerce and, of course, other participants in the adoption of these acts, we have talked seriously about all the consequences and all the possibilities that this law provides. When we passed the sublaws, we consulted the Chamber of Commerce in detail and everything these organizations gave as observations and consent. It's been going on for a long time in legislation and finance, because we've been trying to figure out the solution that we're going to do this together. So, let's not bring it in by liking it to some minister or ministry or anyone, but to just put the biggest number of objections not to harm, let's say, everything that's written in the law and put it into perspective with the financial frameworks. Could that have been faster? It may have been possible, but at this point, we have a situation that we have at least tried for the first time in 155 months of your unhappiness, absolutely not working with zero results in this area, to pass the law. That law was passed, he'll start to apply. As for reform, reform laws, I can think of a few, for example, the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Work from your time, which led to 400,000 people losing their jobs in this country, that many companies that worked in Serbia are no longer working, to be in bankruptcy, to fail and that these people and these families have nothing to live on. These were the results of this serious and enormous work that the government had done at the time. However, I am confident, and what has, of course, been in force since November and October 2013 with the D.A.'s office working together to investigate all cases, let me say, which we can process, but what I can promise you is that we will work hard to discover and who robbed Serbian citizens and who are the nice people who led to our country. Mr. Djurisic asked me a question, so about work, exactly in line with the topic, because the topic is the country's security, so it's a matter that's very important to our country. And we're going to find out who these people who robbed the Vojvodina Development Bank, who led to the fact that the state has to separate huge funds, for all those wonderful people who took credit and never returned them, for all those wonderful people who kidnapped our companies, they never intended to return it. And they were going to keep the big families on the street, not to have one today. That today children distracted in the development that were to play at the Hetherland Castle do not have that castle, and that a million euros for it was given and robbed. We'll determine who did it, and the courts, I hope they'll do their job quickly and efficiently. Fortunately, since I am the Minister of the Ministry of Interior, no person suspected of these crimes has been dismissed against any person, no proceedings have been suspended and an acquittal has been reached, and I believe that this also shows the seriousness of the work of the MUP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27217	Thank you. He has a word, right to the replica, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27218	He acts in a face-to-face way when Marko Djurisic says he has an emergency procedure. And the same emergency procedures were introduced into this parliament because in 2008, 69 proposals, 2009 121 laws, 2010 and 2011, according to 83 legislative proposals, were adopted by Mr Djurisic in parliament and followed an urgent procedure. Why, then, is Mr. Djurisic not and where it was his responsibility not to put such proposals by the urgent procedure he is jumping around the National Assembly here today, for which he is jumping. When Boris Tadic talks about morality, I think all people in Serbia get their hair up on their heads. Where Boris Tadic's morale is and where Boris Tadic's responsibility is for the 200,000 jobs promised. Where Boris Tadic's morale is for the promised 1,000 euros per capita to win the presidential election. Where is morality and where is Boris Tadic's responsibility because in his period and when he ruled Serbia's Saric, Jerkovici was represented as investors, as national investors. Where Boris Tadic's morale is because in 12 years he failed to discover and process those responsible for the murder of Slavko Djuruija. Where is morale and where is Boris Tadic's responsibility running marathons while you Mr. Ministers were running after our children's kidnappers. Where is Boris Tadic's morale, who played more basketball than he did his job. Then when you and such Tadics, basketball players and marathons talk about morality and responsibility, it is at the very least an insult to the National Assembly and an insult to the common sense of Serbia's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27219	Thank you. Right on the line, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27220	Thank you, Your Honor. I would also like to replicate the minister, and in general I do not know how Mr Babic was called, because I did not speak of his party, nor of the president of his party, but well that is how this Assembly is run. You've passed the law, boasting to the Minister, after 20 years, a year and a half after it's been brought in is not applicable. You said yourself, we don't apply it until today, because we couldn't finish the sublegal act, it took us twice as long as we thought. We're so professional and capable that it took us twice as long as we predicted. You didn't do your job. Your job isn't to chase baby kidnappers, it's to run the Ministry, to know who's doing what, and within what deadlines the job needs to be done, and there's your responsibility. That word you in the government don't know. For Mr. Babic, you're using the worst possible argument. When I say, "Why do you bring the law of procedure?" You say, "So are you." Kids in kindergarten argue like that, Mr. Granny, in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27221	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27222	That's the level of discussion, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27223	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27224	How many times has Mr. Babic spoken to me personally? You didn't say a word. Where is the morale when the prime minister says -- three and a half billion euros "Belgrade on Water", and then we hear it's 150 million? Where's the morale here? What's that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27225	Time, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27226	Where's Saric today? Who accused him? Your friends are watching how to free him today. Now, that's the Serbia he's running today...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27227	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27228	So I have to say that in 155 months' time, to repeat because of the citizens of Serbia, no single member of this law has been written. Not a single member. There was no attempt. There was no thinking. There was no television show on which they talked about this law. There was no talking about it. Today these people are trying to teach us lessons for being late. I could accept that the previous authorities were much more effective, that they were better, that they left one regulated security system, one private security system, that they licensed various agencies, various institutions that could carry out security, but they just didn't. It's just a fact. As far as I am a minister in this area, I must say that Darko Saric has been arrested for insisting on the insistence of Aleksandr Vukic, who conducted with the Security and Information Agency action that led to Darko Saric's arrest. By then Darko Saric was someone who was on the loose and that man was not arrested until Aleksandar Vukic took care of it. Alexander Vukic was arrested by Darko Saric. At a time when Aleksandar Vucic became prime minister and before that was the first Deputy Prime Minister, many court proceedings were initiated for people who were prominent citizens of Serbia, investors and moved completely free of Serbia, and we all knew what crimes they had committed and what crimes we suspect of today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27229	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27230	Mr. Chairman, it's bad when you call in the National Assembly for everyone's responsibility, just not yourself. Just don't remind us what we did. You know, it's been a while and don't remind us, because that means we're in kindergarten. No, we are not, Mr. Djurisic in kindergarten, but in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and for everything you and Boris Tadic are responsible for, no matter how many lawsuits you have made, you are responsible, Mr. Djurisic. You are responsible for all emergency procedures, you are responsible for every violation of the Rules of Procedure, for the rape of democracy you have worked in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You're responsible for any merger of agenda points, 93, 67 points each, which I remind you of every day, but it's bad when you call everyone else to account, and only you're not responsible for anything. Yes, you're responsible. You are also responsible for the biggest deficit in history, not Belgrade, but for the history of all metropolises, in the history of all local self-government, and you and your policy have made the city of Belgrade more than 22%. You and your politics and where is the morale of those five and a half, nearly six million euros missing during the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard? Where is morale and where is the responsibility of being in the Special Court... (The National MP Goran Bogdanovic throws out of place. Yes, Mr. Bogdanovic, they're all others, but you're nothing. You're not responsible for the logs either, you're not responsible for the move of the balvana. You're not responsible for anything, and now you're here to read and honor anyone who does a fair and responsible job. I have nothing against the marathon, but I am for doing my job, for the minister to do his job, to run after the kidnappers, not just to run after the kidnappers, but to prosecute them and to arrest them. It's the job of the Home Secretary, not the marathons and basketballs you played just for a marketing campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27231	The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27232	Thank you, Your Honor. Saric is in prison today on an indictment written in 2009, which your friends today are looking at in every way to dispute and get this man out of prison. If you remember the words that the Prime Minister referred to when Mr. Saric was arrested, then I don't think you'll tell us in any way what Darko Saric was doing in the past, because Darko Saric was, first of all, Mr. Rakic, Boris Tadic, then designated as one of the biggest drug traffickers. Nearly three tonnes of drugs have been seized and Serbia has achieved co-operation with the largest security agencies and has won their respect in the world. How'd it go over the last year? One hundred ninety-three laws - 124 by emergency procedure, 69 in regular procedure. I don't know if it exceeded the statistics Mr. Babic is waving and holding here, but it is a manners, such a manner of manners, that the European Commission tells you – you can't pass laws exclusively by emergency procedure. This has taken so long for the European Commission to tell you – don't. We did what we did, we paid the political price, we paid the responsibility in the election. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: It is small. I know there's little for you to want to see us somewhere else, but we're here and we're going to fight politically with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27233	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27234	I just need to explain for the citizens of Serbia. For the first time, Darko Saric was mentioned when the US DEA gave information about him. By then, Darko Saric by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia was not marked anywhere, mentioned, nor seen in any way as a drug dealer. On the contrary, he has huge investments in Serbia. So, the huge property he bought that money. The money was invested in buying numerous houses, buildings and everything else that was going on in Serbia. Only the pressure of the United States began an investigation that was so skillfully conducted that it fully stopped until Vucic became the security coordinator, and then arrested him in less than a year. You know, if Vucic did it in less than a year, I know he's far more capable than Boris Tadic, I can't compare him to Boris Tadic, but it also shows a relationship to the citizens of Serbia and to crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27235	Mr. Djurishich, on what grounds? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Mr. Minister spoke about Boris Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27236	I can understand and see from this law, from your work, Mr. Minister, that you don't know anything about your work when you explain in this way how investigations and results were launched. So let's start with the basic fact. You said – Vukić arrested Saric in less than a year. It's not true. Defence Minister Vukic is still head of the Security Service Co-ordination Bureau in August 2012. Darko Saric was arrested in March 2014. The simple mathematics that children learn in the first grade of primary school will also tell you that it is 18 months, a year and a half, not less than a year. So no wonder we have a law like this today, where you say, we'll bring something within six months, and then you come after 17, and you say, "We haven't arrived yet." If you can't count, get a calendar on it has 12 months, every month numbered, so start counting manually. So you don't know that you don't know how long it took Mr. Vukic, who, if, arrested Saric. I don't know. Was he on that plane that went to Montenegro to get Saric? So don't disrespect the work of people who have done hard and responsible work years ago, expose their lives and lives to the risk of this country being better.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27237	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27238	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104 and Article 107. Rules of Procedure, but first of all, I rely on article 104 of the law on replication. So the previous speaker was given the right to reply to the name and last name of the current president of the SDS. So, a party nobody's been talking about. Boris Tadic was mentioned in connotation because he was the president of the Republic, and then he was president of one other party. So, not this one, he wasn't president, then he became president of two other parties, as far as I know, so I wouldn't be surprised to see three parties showing up looking for a replica based on the mention of Boris Tadic's name and name. That doesn't even stand in the Rules of Procedure. This position two, it is your right to assess who you will give the replica to, it is the right of the chairman, but on the basis of previous parameters, which are roughly – if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the President of the Parliamentary Group has the right to reply. If, in the first instance, the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and function, or misreading his presentation by the MP to whom the presentation relates, he shall have the right to replication. There is nowhere in the Rules of Procedure that any mention of Boris Tadic is automatically entitled to replication, a team before Boris Tadic was mentioned as the president of the Republic of Serbia who was unable to bring justice to a party friend Saric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27239	Mr. Risticevic, as you said in attitude 3. The chairman decides. I let Mr. Djurisic mention the name of the president of his party, because his behaviour in the National Assembly is increasingly like the behaviour of a parliamentary group that is not now in the Assembly, and because of such behaviour I am in 2008, I left that political party and political group. I am absolutely sure if they continue to behave like this, they will go the same way as this political party and the parliamentary group. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Marian Risticevic, from the city: No. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27240	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe that, like a few times before, this happened in the debate with me, you injured Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, President of the National Assembly, when chaired by the National Assembly if he wishes to participate in the search, leaves the presidency to one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. So, you've lauded with me more than once today, not as the chairman, but as a member of the SNS parliamentary group. Now you've given yourself the right to tell us a story from your biography and to conclude the fate of the political party that I belong to. I ask you not to violate this Rules of Procedure. I can understand that there's no one to replace you, because there's no other vice president in the O.R. right now, and neither does the President of the Assembly, I don't know where everyone is, so you can't act on Article 100, but then I'm asking you to refrain. Also, please don't worry about the fate of the party that I belong to today, its perspective is great, and you'll make sure that everything in political life is variable, and that there are a150 of you here today, and 12 of us, will change. Quickly. You'll be less, we'll be more. It's the inevitability of political life. On the first day you come to power that day you start to fall, it teaches us history, and you can't change it, not even the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27241	Two minutes. Mr. Djurisic, I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Risticevic advertised Article 104th position first and second, and I replied in accordance with Article 103(4), explained why you received the right to replication. Based on that same member and attitude, I am now giving you this same explanation. Of course I have nothing against your political party, as you would like to present it, nor am I concerned about the fate of your political party, since my colleague Babic is now head of a commission or working body for reforming the political system, perhaps some of your MPs should become a constitutional category because we in the Assembly would be very bored without them. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27242	Article 106, Mr. Arsic, the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. In the absence of arguments against the bill represented by Mr Stefanovic, Mr Marko Djurisic presented a whole series of falses and insults at the expense of the minister, at the expense of the government of the Republic of Serbia, at the expense of the SNS. As for the question of who stole the election in 2012, I will tell you, or people say – yellow. Whoever stole all the election since 2000, then yellow, there's no big philosophy. As for Darko Saric, you, Mr. Djurisic, forgot that the money of Darko Saric was recapitalised by the "Metals Bank" and that the money of Darko Saric's "Metals Bank" over the night was converted by political decision by Bojan Pajtic to the Vojvodina Development Bank, which you have robbed to the point that there is no state in the world that can set an example of a government that so thoroughly robs banks that it itself forms. As far as other people's private lives are concerned, I can see that the fashion in Serbia is now narrating over Sasha Jankovic's fate. Sasa Jankovic became a "holy cow", no one should mention how someone was killed in his apartment, or that a violent death occurred. But that's why, for example. Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, put as a target and hit to the will of Nebojsa Stefanovic, as an incompetent minister, about Nebojsa Stefanovic as a man who allegedly prescribed his doctorate, which you invented. I don't understand those double standards. How is it that the private life is sacred when it comes to Sasa Jankovic, but there is no private life when it comes to the interior minister? We can lie about the Minister of the Interior till we're willing, about Sasha Jankovic we can't even tell what's true. As for unfulfilled promises, to remind you ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Serbian citizens, Boris Tadic said in the 2004 presidential campaign -- we are entering the EU in 2007. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: In the 2008 election campaign, says – we are entering the EU in 2012. [[Disabled microphone.]] We didn't enter in 2007, we didn't enter in 2012. So, if anyone needs to wonder where his responsibility is, you who have ruined Serbia since 2000, which day you are ruining the AP Vojvodina. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27243	I thank Mr. Martinovic. On the basis of Article 112, Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a ten-minute break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. I'm asking if anyone else... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Djurishic, you have no right to a replica. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I am right. How come I don't have the right to a replica? You've already talked about it after that. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: He addressed me directly. No, no, you don't have the right to a replica. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27245	The Honorable Chairman, several members were injured before the break. First of all, Article 103 of the Rules of Procedure which refers to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and is practically the whole position, i.e. Article 103, i.e. the first four attitudes, are injured - about how it refers to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as it can be said, how long it can last, how you, as chairman of the abuses, respond. So all of this member's views were hurt, because the previous speaker said - the injured member of 106, and he was going to rephrase to me for two minutes and twenty seconds before you turned off his microphone, he was talking to me about my exposure that happened 20 minutes before that. So all the views of members 103 are injured. Finally, a member of 109 was injured when the speaker continued to speak after his microphone was turned off, and you did not give him any disciplinary measure to what this Rules of Procedure obliges you to do. I've been declared rude here and I've been punished with two warnings from the president of the Assembly for the situation when she gave me warnings for a completely unknown reason, and you've directly now amnested your party colleague just because he's replicated to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27246	Time. Mr. Djurishic, first of all, I know that you want me to apply Article 109. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly so that I may be the wicked chairman, and you fine, smooth MPs who are being harassed by someone. Using the same standards to Mr. Martinovic and you, I could make warnings both. When you didn't get it, I don't see why you're asking Mr. Martinovic to get it, or do you want me to make a note to each other right now? Are you raised or rude and what anyone called you? I'm not responsible for that. As I didn't know that Mr. Martinovic was going to talk when he asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I also didn't know that you would call you a liar in your statement on the law. So I also apply the same standards to MPs who support the government and MPs who do not support the government. Every presidency story for itself. Maybe my tolerance threshold is a little bit higher, because I know you have a little MPs, a little time, you want to send a political message, and that's why I'm so intolerant of you. Maybe more than I should, but now it's my business and I'll be like that as long as this Parliament wants me to be vice president of the National Assembly. The word has an authorised representative of Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27247	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues from the ministry, we have today proposed two laws that I can say are the result of the work of the Ministry of Interior in previous years. When it comes to private security, I would refer to the importance of this law. There have been words that for decades the private security sector has been developed in Serbia, but not arranged and the interior ministry has been preparing for years, not only this law, but the Law on Detective Action. In 2013, we adopted both of these laws as roof laws in the area of private security. One of the key objectives of the law was to further develop the concept of public-private partnership, which was why the adoption of these two laws also caused public interest. When it comes to amending the Private Security Act, the SPS parliamentary group agrees with all amendments to the law. The reasons for extending the deadline to comply with the provisions of the law are clear. This makes it possible, as you said, to adapt to the obligations for all participants in the process, particularly for private entities. Otherwise, the ministry would be obliged to supervise the application of the law and impose sanctions in accordance with the law without merely creating conditions for bringing the private sector in line with the new legal framework. You were talking about the proposed addition of Article 4 which defines mandatory security facilities, concerns the very formulations in such a way that from the definition of necessarily provided facilities that are protected under the Private Security Act, the facilities whose protection is carried out by the state authorities, whose protection is governed by the regulations in the area of defence. This amendment allows the adoption of a sublegal act, since the sublaw does not exclude these objects in question. When we passed the law in 2013 we missed the provision that prescribed the obligation to pay the fees for the issue of the legislation, which would compensate for the costs and its production and the issue itself. According to the regulations governing the RS budget system, it is possible to prescribe the tax only by law, and the amount of the sublegal act and we also agree that the minister should be the one to prescribe the amount of the tax. For the state in this case, it is important for the ministry to provide a legal basis for the collection of appropriate fees for services and there is nothing disputed. In any case, any amendments to the law aimed at more effective application, improvement and capacity assurance are acceptable for us. There is no perfect system, so there is no perfect law. Every promotion and change speaks of the law being applied. For the state in this sense, it is important, as I said at the beginning, to improve the public-private partnership because the growing responsibility for internal security policy is also given to private security entities. When it comes to the second law confirming the agreement, an agreement on mutual recognition of driving licences has been signed in order to improve bilateral co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Albania. The deal was signed in December of last year and another one is in a series of bilateral agreements regulating the area. I will remind you that the precondition for the creation of these types of agreements that regulate mutual recognition of new documents in line with EU regulations and standards that the MUP began to apply in 2008. Parliament has so far ratified bilateral agreements on the recognition and replacement of driving licences with Spain, Italy and Macedonia and thus allowed our citizens to pass through those countries without special procedures. At the same time, I would like to point out that the citizens of the states of the signatories also exercise the same right, allowing for easier stay and reduction of unnecessary bureaucracy. The fact that there are still no interstate agreements with most European countries so that Serbian driving licences are recognised in these countries, this is a major problem for our citizens, not only for natural persons working abroad, but also for consumers, i.e. economic operators, especially those dealing with car transport and road transport. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order to manage a car, truck or bus in Germany or France, you need to own an international driver's license along with a Serbian driver's license, which requires costs. For these very reasons, there are initiatives to sign similar agreements with Sweden, the Netherlands, even Australia, and I hope that in the next period we will have the opportunity to ratify these agreements. In the end, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the MUP on the number of documents issued for all these years, not only driving and traffic permits, but all personal documents, especially the Administration of Administrative Affairs, which brought most of the work and practically laid the foundation for these and similar agreements. I also want to point out the fact that our personal documents and documents issued by the MUP are getting back into importance and I believe that in the next period they will get the same importance that the former SFRY document once has, but this time it is only possible to get our personal document through legal means, since it has not been recorded for all these years by any forgeries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27248	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27249	Thank you for this, and you gave the painting very carefully. I just want to look back on the last thing you said, which is not only about this subject, but it's very important for this too, because it's just a growing number of agreements that we sign with other countries that bear witness to our country's reputation. When we are able to finish, and it is in preparation, and at one of the next Committee sessions, we may talk about it, there are a number of strategic agreements on inter-police co-operation that will not be just a matter of paper, I insist on and talk a lot about it with our colleagues, I talk to my and people on the operational level with my, we want concrete results and what is visible to the co-operation between the two police, between the two ministries, especially in the field of European integration. As you said, I think the world recognizes both the government and the ministry's reform activities and the reputation of our country is growing and I hope, as you said, that our passport will have the kind of demand that the SFJR passport once had and we're going towards it, and certainly it's the exact data, because of good protection and good document making so far, it seems to me, over three and a half million just passports, almost four million witnesses about good protection, without counterfeits, but that our country is actually making one serious progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27250	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27251	Mr President, I really appreciate your efforts to keep all MPs on the agenda and respect the Rules of Procedure and to discuss the proposed laws in the next session today. Mr. Minister, you have said several times, it is indeed a fact that this area has long been unsolved and on November 26, 2013 was finally the day when the previous assembly adopted the Private Security Act. At that time, the debate on this law has repeatedly said that a number of abuses of authority are present when private security services are being provided. The idea was also to regulate this area in a modern way and to remove a number of irregularities observed in the work of the subjects involved in this activity. The reasons for the adoption of this law were more than obvious because there is an increase of persons employed in this area, and it stands at up to 60,000, as a colleague from the JS said, in the account that about 47,000 pieces of arms are being handled, and there are around 180m euros, i.e. an estimated financial turnover in the private security sector annually, although it is only part of the total profits of the companies involved in this activity. It's still a big part of the illegal, gray zone, and that's why the sublegal acts that govern this law are very important, among other things, and that's why. Today it is concluded that the deadline for the adoption of all necessary sub-legislative acts is too short and given the complexity and diversity of the issues which these regulations deal with, I understand fully the competent authorities that this deadline has been extended and it has really not been logical to expect all this to be completed within this deadline. It's not the first time, it's not even unusual, and I have a complete understanding of the bill's motion to extend the deadline for another eight months, because what else would be the purpose of the law if there was no quality shift in the provision of private security services. In order to achieve this shift, it is necessary that all members of the private security companies undergo adequate training. As for the other two proposed amendments, the Ministry was likely to notice shortcomings in Article 4.62 during its work on sublaws. The law and proposed those adjustments. I think this is a fairly good way to get to the best possible solutions in the law, regardless of which area is being arranged. It is necessary for each institution or competent authority to take a pro-active position in any way and to adequately respond as soon as it notices certain shortcomings or illogicalities in the text of the law to be applied, thereby no doubt contributing to improving the quality of legal regulation in general. As for confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual recognition of driving licences, I would indeed agree with your finding, Mr Minister, that these are not paper agreements, that they are very important for stability in the region. The New Serbia parliamentary group will also support the draft law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act and a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, for two reasons above all. The first is that for any reason, our citizens who have been staying in Albania for a long time are allowed to obtain an Albanian driver's license without additional costs based on the driver's license issued by the country of origin. The second reason for ratifying this agreement is certainly the fact that an agreement with the nearest neighbours and countries in the region has a special, specific weight, and I would also consider the complexity of relations at certain times between the state of Serbia and Albania. I cannot mention the case of "drona" and incendiary statements by some Albanian officials on this occasion, but certainly such agreements, but also important announced joint infrastructure projects, such as the Nis-Tirana highway or railway communications with Albanian ports in the Adriatic, with the necessary financial support of the international community, will certainly represent through the necessary balance contributing to stability in the region. At the end of my presentation, I just want to let you know that the NS MP group in the voting day will support both of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27252	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27253	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues. We have amendments and additions to the Private Security Act. It is always a great pleasure to see Dr Stefanovic here, the minister of police, who comes to the Assembly and seems in the mood to answer the questions of MPs, of course related to the topic and the law. What's certain is that for a year and a half you haven't been able to apply the law you've passed, these are the facts of number one. The deadline for alignment of 18 months from the date of entry into force of the Private Security Act expires on 5 May 2015. According to the promoter, the extension of the deadline until 1 January 2016 will also have an impact on the Ministry to prepare itself, etc., for the full implementation of this law. I don't think it's possible for this law to fulfill what the law itself provides, because the competent authorities haven't created a prerequisite for that. The question arises – how do the authorities think they create all the necessary conditions for just a few more months, when they have failed in the previous 18 months? So I think that's one logical question and hopefully a logical and precise answer. We are also unclear on this mathematics that you, ministers, have served in calculating the time needed to complete the adjustment, when in the very reason of the law, you state that the exact number of people employed in private security or the number of active entities involved in this business is unknown. So you don't have one of the essential segments of the equation to bring any calculation. You know that representatives of the private sector on the last round table, held in early April of this year, have requested that deadlines for compliance with the provisions of the law be extended until 2018. We believe that this is a much more realistic deadline, knowing how the whole process will take place, knowing how many companies are involved, knowing how much de facto they are dealing with, which are in the process of accreditation, which have submitted applications, knowing what capacity they are, how narrowed and knowing your commissions, knowing square meters and oxygen operations how many students they need to take. By all possible segments, it's absolutely impossible to fill in what you're bringing today. As you couldn't have done a year and a half ago, you're re-administering a law that has no way of applying it within the specified time limit. We think it's realistic to do this by 2018. Of course, I'll try to explain why. We also believe that there is a lack of hearing for recommendations made by the private sector itself and will lead to higher financial costs for private security companies themselves. The application of the law in this way will increase the number of unemployed, as a large number of employees in this branch will not be able to pay for training and licensing, respected colleagues. This is one of the reasons why the deadline should be extended until 1 January 2018. Otherwise, right away, it's good to pass a law like this, and it's good that this segment of our society is finally regulated legally. It's very good that it's done at last and it's a shame that it hasn't been done before, but I remind you it's necessary... That doesn't prove anything, I don't know what you're laughing at. So you have to do this as a world, normally, segmentally, precisely, and with clearly measured dates and deadlines, not like this. Such a proposal for amending and supplementing the law will lead to a detachment of business. I have to say, look out, you have the base, the volume and the area of training for the companies that applied for accreditation. It is not mentioned that only six centres work, that only 2,000 people can dress in reasonable groups of 25 people with this dynamic until the end of the extended period. It's math. So, just 2,000 people. Also, there is no season of vacations planned, nor are the number of commissions the MUP should train and prepare to interrogate all these people. I think they take vacations a year in these companies, as well as in the MUP itself. We've actually done a detailed examination here and we've established a few things. The main reason for these changes, respected citizens and respected fellow Members, is seen in the trombone of the adoption of sublegal regulations and follow-up deadlines for the application of the law. Since the adoption of the law in November 2013, the sublaws were to be adopted by May 2014, and the process of training and licensing of employees was to be completed by May 2015. Of which, of course, there's nothing. Like any of your pre-election promises you haven't fulfilled, you can't keep what you do every day. That's why I'm going to propose to my colleague Babić that, as part of the constitutional changes, this is interesting to you, too, Mr. Chairman, a category of effort and zero-success. So, that you have as a constitutional category that you are allowed to try and advocate, and that you have no results and that it is protected by the Constitution of Serbia, where, of course, one name that cannot be mentioned is our supremacy that should rule forever in this country. This is dyspression. I think in this way the deadlines, which are private security companies and their employees were supposed to respect, are essentially, at the end when they draw the line, on an unreal deadline of just a month to complete all these works. So, when you look at everything, and sublegal acts, and surfaces, and licensing, and space, and the number of registered, and fees, and how many months you have, and how many estimates there are people in this branch, respected colleagues, will remain for 30 days to finish. That's impossible. It is my duty as MP, not only as a member of the opposition in this assembly, to well-intentionedly suggest that it is not good for you to come back to this assembly with new deadlines, because you will not be able to do this, people. There's nothing evil or negative about what I'm telling you. You are starting from the assumption that the law will be amended and new deadlines established, and you, as proposings, claim that training centres with these capacities will be able to fully train as many as 74,850 students in the full range of 10 training cycles. Guys, that's impossible. The scheduled deadlines are in existing conditions unrealistic, as I said. Of the 17 accredited centres, it only works six. Since six hours is a daily working fund, it is possible to train on the shifts of two groups of participants depending on the available number of lecturers and spatial capacities. 25 participants were selected for the size of the group, which is an optimum for quality teaching. The estimate with these parameters was made for four to six operational centres, 17 accredited and 27 that submitted the request. The table display that we have, which I can deliver to you, shows that in ideal conditions it is not possible to train 40,000 security officers within the scheduled deadlines. In the best version, where all the centers got permission to work, let's imagine, in this period and with these capacities, it's possible to train a third of the security officers. With current capacity, only 5% of employees will be trained. That's the facts. I wish I was wrong. You know that you've passed a bill that you're going to speed up, drift away and try to do something overnight, knowing that there's going to be some kind of training falinka or that there's going to be a smaller number of people who need to apply, because they simply don't have the money or they don't have the opportunity to do something like that. So, however you turn, you don't put the system on healthy feet again and set deadlines that you know you won't be able to meet. Therefore, I believe that the conclusion and consequence of the law's application will not achieve its effect if the quality of training is taken into account. In such short deadlines, it is not possible to complete the training of security officers, under one. Two, it's not possible in a quality way. Furthermore, there are several possibilities for intervention. Here, I'm offering certain suggestions, which I hope you won't automatically reject. Increase the number of parallel groups in training centres, requiring all available material resources of these centres to be used and to engage more lecturers. It's, as you know, restricted by the space and the lecturers that the centers possess. The second option is to increase groups of participants, which is also limited by available space, and has an impact on the decline in the quality of teaching. Or take the Arena and train them there. Distance learning, as you know, Mr. Minister, which is proposed by certain segments of the expert public, is also possible, because the theoretical part of the teaching, which is about 70%, could at least get rid of it that way. Of course, while it is necessary for a practical part of training to come to training. The third option is to increase the number of centres, but this depends on the willingness of market players to engage in the business, as you yourself have noted in your presentation. As soon as we clash with the market, first of all, there's no way we're going to win either as a nation or as a citizen, and secondly, we're going to be absolutely in a subordinate position where we'll never be able to do anything, because my God, it's a golden calf called the market and we're not going to have any progress in this country because your government is blindly serving the market. Here, this is just one example for you, kid, that something like that absolutely kills and the spirit of the law that you have proposed and its effective implementation and the possibility of that actually happening. I must say, this all requires time and serious examination of all segments of this process. The MAP needs to educate a large enough number of commissions, as you know, to examine all security officers in a consistent manner. Under the existing conditions, under this bill, the expected results will not be obtained, in a better case, a significant part of the security members will not complete training within the legal time limit and will be subject to the sanctions policy of the supervisory authority. In the worse case, the participants in the study will lower the criteria in order to reach the deadline for them to achieve certain results that the law imposes. He's afraid there's going to be a breakout of work, like I said, in order to achieve the goals set. That would leave the Serbian society, i.e. our society, in suspense because the next cycle of renewal of licenses is only five years from now, respected citizens, respected MPs. This is the part I had to tell you about this bill in 12 minutes. I hope that, Minister, you accept that it was content to see that we have made an effort, that we have consulted people, that we want qualitative changes, to point you to the real aspect of this problem, to give you some suggestions. It's not easy to carry this out. This part of our society, if you want our market, even though I despise that word for a long time, has long been unregulated. When there's something to be done from the beginning, it's always hard. But to be successful in this venture, as a state, we must have good preparation, we must have logistics, we must have good judgments. We can't do things halfway and casually. I'm afraid, I have a chill, as it is said, both opposition and civil, that it won't be possible to meet the forecasts, deadlines, the content of the Amendments and the addition of the Private Security Act. I wanted to point that out to you. I would ask you, as Minister, and your esteemed associates, to answer these questions, if there is room for an answer, to try to put this matter together, long unregulated, finally regulate it in an adequate way, that you, as Minister of the Interior, in whose domain this is, and whose part of the job, really try not to come back to the Assembly with new deadlines and that you can devote yourself to your work, which I believe is part of your job. I also agree with my colleague Djurisic that many of the things you do are not part of your work, but these are already political reasons that I do not want to enter at the moment. I think you've got a lot of problems with the I.P.D., that there's a new law to be passed on to the police. You prepared him, there was a public debate, we participated. There are many shortcomings, there are many inconsistencies, new, brave solutions are being avoided again, things simply don't go according to your declared policy, your promises, yours, as you say – the future I believe in. The steps you take, and in law itself, are too much in the process of stagnation. You talk too much, and you talk too much. Stop talking, start working less and talk less and argue with the opposition. Think of it as an appeal, I'm not really fighting. Really. Here, who was listening to this exposure, could hear that the thorns of the argument were gone. I appeal to your consciousness to approach legal proposals from this side. Your size will always be in it if you accept your mistakes and will be in it if you say you respect a different opinion, which we have never heard in this congregation before. Perhaps you, Dr Stefanovic, will be the first to say it here. You may have this power in you to avoid dealing with non-insects, even when they bring you concrete suggestions and point to obvious, factually subdued shortcomings, let's not be rude. So that's before you and you're the Home Secretary. Please respond to these comments, remarks, suggestions, whatever. Knowing that you have a very professional team of people around you who know they're doing their job, and I really thank them in that part because they made an effort to finally bring an unregulated area into what a state. What I believe and thus conclude, is that this bill, i.e. supplementing and amending the law will not lead to improvement, nor problem solving, nor will many of the laws you bring to the Assembly. He just opens Pandora's box, doesn't close it. We're still a state of start and unfinished projects. I'm afraid we'll stay that way as long as you're in power, we won't do anything alive, in your case, not even start, let alone finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27254	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27255	I think I can say, we're all fully aware of your good intentions for the government when you say that, it comes out of every sentence of yours, and you can clearly see that. I want to tell you, when we talk about the Police Act, I'm going to remind you that on 29 November 2005, the last police law was passed. Unfortunately, even though he had serious shortcomings back then, not that there were no bold moves to change anything, there was no television show in which you discussed a possible new law on police. In no way did the government then, which was all and everyone in Serbia and held absolutely all the levers of the system in its hands, from the Supreme Defence Council and beyond, make no effort to facilitate and improve the position of police, made no effort to define in a more courageous and serious way anything in this sector and the resolution, and this job was left to us. So we may have our shortcomings, as we have them, and we may not be fast enough, but we are light speed compared to the reforms carried out by the then government. The then government, its reforms did not return to Serbia. I really think they were so harmful, that Serbia's citizens will not recover from such a policy that has been conducted for a long time, even in this very important system. As for the remarks you made, I must say that there are no things you said, I will give you a concrete explanation. First of all, we don't have a record, which is not exactly the interior ministry's jurisdiction, to count every member of private companies that deal with private security until this law, to say, to define everything this law has predicted. So we have a projection because, of course, these companies' portfolios are different. We have a projection that moves between 50,000 and 60,000 employees, which doesn't necessarily mean that, of course, all these employees will apply for training and does not necessarily mean that all these companies will participate in the follow-up process. However, of course, we have to estimate that it will be just like that. We predicted that if the deadline was, as I said I was willing to accept the deadline Mr. Djurisic offered on April 1, 2016, about this moment I must tell you, you are wrong, 29 institutions are accredited. Of that, 19 in Belgrade, four in Novi Sad, two in Zrenjanin, one in Kragujevac, Nis, Sremska Mitrovica and Sapac. So 29 is already accredited, ten is in the process of obtaining permission. So 39 we can say that we will certainly have an institution, and maybe more and that is a process that will run by interest, including several colleges that have serious capacities that several hundred students can take into the process. It shows that the interest in this will grow bigger and bigger. So, according to a relatively easy calculation where you would use 40 institutions times a hundred candidates, which is one normal number in a year, can be in some institutions and far greater, when multiplied by the time it takes, it's actually obtained that by April 2016, 44,000 candidates can go through this training, which is a relatively decent number that we can count on. Of course, the MUP has already formed 45 interrogators through ten committees under investigation. Of course, we haven't worked a number for reasons we don't have the need at this point, according to the number of reported. When the number increases, the interior ministry will meet and as far as it is concerned, there will be no problem across all lines of work to find a sufficient number of people to participate in these expert commissions. I have to say that until now, a completely unsettled system has been such that the economic operators had no expense, absolutely no expense and had no obligation to arrange this in one different way than it has been completely unsettled so far. They mainly set a minimum labour price for all these employees, and these people were not in an orderly system that guaranteed them any serious future. We're doing this for the first time in a responsible and serious way. For the first time, we introduce what regulations are, what is it that they have to meet in order to be able to wear uniforms and weapons and deal with the business where they are applied, to say, certain means of coercion. And I also have to tell you that they were first brought in why I think that time is enough of these few months ahead of us, because we were first working on making regulations that allow training because it's a process that lasts. Later acts do not require such a period of adjustment or are almost immediately applied. For example, the regulation of uniforms where it is necessary to replace the old uniforms with new or, for example, the Regulation on the means of duress applied immediately and does not require adaptation. That's why these rules won't take that long. At the same time, as you said yourself, and the request of the private sector is to extend the deadlines. And they're not ready to go out completely and complete what they have to do to comply with the law, but, of course, that's just one reason. We also have to take care of the fact that, in the future, you, I say, the speed of the regulation being higher and we're going to supplement all the rules that should exist in the next few months. What was also very important, I was talking about earlier, we had a lot of work to do with the Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance and our legislation. Simply, a process in which you want to be responsible and seriously committed to passing a law through a long and serious public debate. It simply requires a long-term alignment, a alignment with a number of entities that everyone sometimes has completely mixed interests and interests to see things the way they want them to. We tried to get most of us to meet without harming the spirit of the law and the way the law was written. At the same time, I would like to remind you that in this House we have been in a period of time since I passed the new Law on Arms and Ammunition, the new Fire Protection Act, before us in the parliamentary procedure of the new Law on Protection against the City, we will soon have a new, after the final public debate, the Emergency Act. Also, today it was adopted by the Government of the Law on flammable and fuel liquids. Of course, we will have a very soon, long-term procedure since almost 180 members of the new Transport Safety Act, i.e. amendments and additions to the Transport Safety Act, are being amended because it is less than half of the members of the law. So the results of our ministry and drug confiscation, and the security of traffic, that we have over 100 people less killed on the streets than in previous periods and over three tons of drug confiscation more than we had in previous years and more significant crime control on the streets, although it's still not enough and we will continue to do it, but the results of this ministry's work are extremely good, can be better worked on. But I really can't agree that these people's work was evaluated so they didn't do anything. All these people who are in the MUP are making huge efforts to make Serbian citizens as safe as possible, because our three basic actions are certainly the provision of public services, including what MP Stefana Miladanovic said in issuing personal documents and everything else. Security of public order and peace and, of course, the provision of respect for the law, i.e. the implementation of the law. These are things I'm proud of that people, the largest number of people in the MUP really work very hard to get serious results in this country. The results achieved by this government in terms of the budget deficit, which is the main generator of external debt and which will provide more funding of course for the MUP, and even better conditions for law enforcement, certainly shows that the government is serious and gives serious and much more serious results than our predecessors did.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27256	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: From what now, Babic. ) To the presentation of yours. You mentioned to Mr. Stefanovic about the Constitution. That's why I thought that was the basic reason. I'll see if I'm right or wrong. Here you go, Grandma.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27257	You'll count me in 20 seconds, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27258	Please re-apply, for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27259	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. There were few moments here of flat-rate political evaluations on unfulfilled promises, so I would remind those who only promised Serbian citizens instability in the election campaign, promised the Ukrainian script, what promises meant and what the promises made meant. We promised to lift our farm to its feet. A contract with Teniz was signed. The promised, the largest meat producer, one of the largest in the EU and the largest in Germany, was brought in. We promised a solution to "Fap". Here, you see these end the privatisation process "Fapa" "SISU" has come to our country. A nice neighborhood of our country has been stabilized in this way. Promise, done. April 8. Ginsi Krupanj, 200 new jobs, 700 000 euros in investment. Promise, done. On 8 December 2014, Fresenius Vrsac, 429 new investment jobs, 16m euros. Promise, done. KVS Vienna, 250 new jobs, 30m euros in investments. Promise, done. Henkle Kruševac, 220 new jobs, at the end of 2014 an investment of 21m euros. Promise, done. Japan Tobacco, Senta, 40 new jobs, an investment of 1.6 million. Tiger-Tiers, 9 October 2014 in Pirote, 500 jobs open, 215m euros in investment. Johnson Electric Nis, 1,000 new jobs, 15m euros worth of investment. Promise, done. And, the greatest promise that has also been made, it's a little two minutes, I'm going to say more, it's a little time, it's the stability of our society. Today, instead of broken windows, half-towns, Ukrainian scenarios in Serbia, unfortunately some broken heads in Serbia who have been called and predicted, Serbia is a stable country with all the challenges this Serbian government is addressing in stable frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27260	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, you signed up for the minister's statement, but I really don't see the basis. The minister was just answering those questions about problems, and I figured out what basic training problem, nothing special. I'm sure you can't convince the minister or the MPs that you're right. (Borko Stefanovic, from the post: Replica does not serve to convince them. Please, I don't see the basis for the replica. (Borko Stefanovic, from the scene: Because we talked about certain things. Come on, if it's that important these two minutes, we're not going up or down. Here you go, though I still don't think you have a basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27261	Believe me, I'm really embarrassed when I have to use the right of MPs, I mean, that's how much we've come into this situation. You know, just before a colleague on the other side lists the companies that still brought in the frozen DS and presents them as their result, so you don't object, but that doesn't matter at all. They should tell the citizens how many "Ginsi" worked hours after Vukic left Krupanj. How many hours did that sewing machine work when the wolf retreated? When you list the promise, it is unpromised and not fulfilled what you have done in Serbia. I only called the minister for one reason. His answer was on the lines of my questions, that's right. But at one point it's unnecessary, it seems to me, slipped into that old mantra of theirs that doesn't serve anything, and that's what it was compared to the previous period. Well, then, Minister, you tell me, since you know there's a police law coming up soon, and you know that right now our police are getting new uniforms and new shoes, tell me if it's true that you bought clothes and shoes at a price that's twice as expensive as what another supplier offered and you know something about it. That's what the police are telling you on the street. That combat shoes were only at the cost of two pairs from another bidder. Promise, done. Growth is not employment. Promise, done. Production down. Promise, done. The strangulation of human rights and the media. Promise, done. That, fighting and beating up political opponents. Promise, done. That's what you promised Mr. Babic, 100 billion euros in investment, a channel to Thessaloniki, an office for quick answers, I could count by tomorrow what you didn't do, but that's not the point. The point is that workers in these factories, Mr. Babić, 200 employees, 150, 300 okay, let people get a job, ask them how much they pay. How many thousands of dinars do they get in those factories of yours?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27262	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27263	I'm a little moved by what Mr. Stefanovic said in the end. Much bigger than they had until yesterday. In no matter how many thousands of dinars, so many thousands of dinars more than they had in their previous years. That's when they had zero. Unfortunately, they lived on statistics mostly with their parents, supported by pensioners, grandparents, had no money of their own. They're starting to work today, they've got a future. After all, all the people who start working are fighting for themselves, fighting for their lives, and of course we're going to watch us increase those wages in time. This will depend on the market, depending on the conditions that the state is also implementing, and which private sector it is implementing. As far as this is concerned, I can't, it's an unserious argument – it's the police on the street. So every tender at the Ministry of the Interior is public. It's a huge number of bidders. They're complaining to the competitiveness committees of everyone who thinks. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that I have a suspicion that in the previous period, one of the same number of bidders often won and won at the Ministry of the Interior. I'm not sure the quality of the equipment that was bought was the best. I think there's a nervousness in a number of bidders when they break down those monopolies and it can't anymore, I'm not going to say the names of these companies, one, two or three companies to win. Now companies from all over the country and abroad are reporting, and it's not always... Of course the price is one of the most important elements in the tender. I don't know about this one. I can deliver all the data to you is no problem, but of course quality is important. What's it worth to buy a cheaper shoe that's missed in a month, then in that case the money's completely thrown away. I say again, there are a lot of new laws that this majority of public procurement has passed and have made it possible for a sharp and thorough control of every public procurement. It is simply impossible for other bidders today to implement anything in a way that is twice as expensive and that no one complains, especially in the MUP. All have very fundamental opportunities to appeal to the Commission for the protection of the rights of tenderers and other commissions and, ultimately, to the MUP itself. Otherwise, I couldn't agree more, if there's any kind of leak somewhere, to investigate it all. It will be another newspaper in the new Police Act, where the Internal Affairs Sector will extend its powers to the rest of the ministry as well. The internal control sector will be able to verify the legality of work, including commissions dealing with public procurement. In any case, if any respected law, it depends primarily on that person. So we can't make someone obey the law, but we can harshly sanction it if that law violates it. Of course I'm always ready to talk to people who say there are some problems in anything that's done at the MUP. It's just that, mostly, everything I've been checking... We've had a lot of objections so far, like any minister. But what you see when you check, is that it's mostly either a deal with someone who's supposed to win, so he didn't win, because he was worse or it's to say political bargaining with someone who doesn't like him. In a number of cases, there were also legitimate objections, which we solved. Anyway, I think we'll have a lot of work to do next. That's why I'm asking for Parliament's support, and I've also talked to my colleagues on the Defence and Security Committee. Parliament's support is needed, because the interior ministry's security sector is doing a very important job which is a prerequisite for stable investment, which is a prerequisite for one to say better climate in Serbia in which investors would rather come, especially in an environment that, as you all have witnessed, is very turbulent. I hope that as the Republic of Serbia, we will make great efforts to maintain one stability and security for all our citizens, to show you that Serbia is a country where people should come freely, invest their money or just come to visit it touristically.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27264	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27265	I think that, as a society and as a parliament, we would advance that a colleague, speaking of beating up political inexperiences, here on behalf of the Jesic brothers, as the Dalton brothers, would apologize to Milan Cacic and SNS for beating up those brothers in God's justice, in public place, on the street and could see all of Serbia. He'd rather have made an apology than made charges. On the other hand, I am very grateful for the creamworth for continuing the list of promised and fulfilled. We promised construction permits that were no longer issued in Serbia for several months, or more years, so the investor would sit down and retire, rather than get a building permit. Now the building permit, under the new Law on Planning and Construction, is being issued in 28 days. Promise, done. Now for that building permit you do not go to a hundred counters, 100 seats, and then on that last or last counter is a mandatory answer – you lack another paper. Now you're going to one place. It's a quick answer office, for those things that were most braked in the construction industry and in the creation of new jobs. Promise, done. Since various appeals have been made here, I have only one appeal addressed to Bojana Pajtić – stop robbing Vojvodina more, stop robbing the Vojvodina funds, stop robbing the banks of Vojvodina, start doing your job for which you are paid, not dragging your hand into the pockets of the citizens of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27266	Mr. Stefanovic, you're looking for a replica. The replica goes the other way, we're witnessing it. The replica no longer speaks of a proposal to amend and supplement the law. I don't want us to go that way, because she'll escalate if we keep going. Please, we're done with the replicas and we're moving on. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Why? You're the one who caused it. I respect your need and desire... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene: Now said the man that we robbed. I know, but let me tell you... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I can give you the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27267	Articles 106 and 107. Mr. Babic used the replica here to make completely unfounded accusations for people who are not present. On my question, fully based on the facts, and the things I exchanged with the minister, which were within the scope of the bill, you first allowed, and then you forgot, the head of the parliamentary group of majority to present here a list of ghosts. In Krupnje, 30 people work in training, and he read that he works 200 people. When I say, it is not true, then he says, you have robbed, you are thieves. So, man doesn't know anymore... Do you understand me? That's what you've allowed, Mr. President-in-Office, to burst in the unwanted direction of this debate. We had a nice talk about the bill. You have to agree with me and suddenly Mr. promoter of the government's non-existent successes, told someone to lie and steal, you didn't respond, here's the police sitting in front of him, let them arrest all the Daltons in Serbia, let them say who beat Vladimir Jesic, let the people say. How do you allow that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27268	Please, I've been following your statements closely, and I want to admit that 99% of you have spoken about the law in your presentation, but we haven't seen anything either. You're in a skillful way... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the site: Do you see them at Babic's? Please, clearly. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Then say you see them at Babic's. Listen to me. I have no evil intentions towards anyone, I really don't, but you're in a good way, I'm just commenting on the situation that's been going on, you've caused the opposite side, and she has otherwise responded to you, and if I let it go, she'll escalate. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Their way was not skillful, he was ignorant. Do you understand? Easier then you could see. I have a principle that whoever caused the replica can't have the last line. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: So I caused the replica. You're the one who caused the replica. That's how I saw it. There's really no reason to discuss it. My intentions are sincere and well-intentioned. I don't have any evil intentions towards you or Babic, or anyone here, I just want this session to run... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: But you are somehow warmer towards Babic. According to Babic, you emit more heat. That's not right, Mr. Chairman. ) Please, just to comment, since you have responded to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I consider that there has been no violation of the Rules of Procedure for the simple reason, I am not even here to determine the truth, I am not an investigative judge, according to the Rules of Procedure and the Law, allowed to speak the truth. So I don't see that there were any reasons, and I don't think there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. It is your right to plead in voting day. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: I am not looking. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27269	Just to give, for Mr. Stefanovic, I've now been sent from the Ministry, so the information. Purchase of combat shoes, uniforms are obtained from cheetah, Krunik and Jugotekst. So from three different companies, it depends on which piece she got which firm. In all tenders, those companies that offered the lowest price and no foreign companies are all domestic from Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27270	The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go. I'm sorry, Maria. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Marijan Rističević has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27271	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, I'm advocating Article 103 regarding Article 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In this bickering, the dignity of the National Assembly has been brutally violated because the lies that strike, especially my fellow citizens, have been made known. Here is mentioned, a colleague of the government, I mean the government of Vojvodina, mentioned here the case of the beating up of Vladimir Jesic. Injured dignity of the National Assembly, for it is simply not true. It's the other way around. That gentleman hurt and broke his head to a man who was going to eat, he drank a beating, a man named Milan Cacic. It is indisputable that Vladimir Jesic,
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27272	Mr. Risticevic, I apologize. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27273	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27274	So, what's Jesic got to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27275	Mr. Chairman, you've heard the fact that he's been told here that he's been beaten, and it's quite the opposite. And that's why I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because it's a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27276	Mr. Rističevic I beg you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27277	Here, I apologize to you if you haven't heard that part, I've heard, here are the other fellow MPs, I've heard that part have completely replaced thesis. The man who beat the crap out of him, he's listed here as beating the shit out of him. I simply cannot agree with that because the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. I'm supposed to come to India, and my voters are gonna say why you kept your mouth shut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27278	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. I'll just answer you, please. I think I've said here more than once that it's not mine to determine whether someone's telling the truth or not. It's not mine. Therefore, it is allowed. He's not responsible for the untrue. If the truth is offensive, then it bears sanctions, or if the word is offensive, I have not come to such a conclusion. So I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27279	The Honorable Chairman, Rules of Procedure 103 and 108 were injured. A moment ago, in fact, it took three minutes and 30 seconds to indicate an injury to the Rules of Procedure of Parliament of the People's Parliament of Borislav Stefanovic. Although according to the Rules of Procedure, pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure may take up to two minutes. It lasted three minutes and 30 seconds. That way, I could only conclude that this heat was still heading for Mr. Stefanovic's side. I have no problem, but I ask you to just stick to the Rules of Procedure in the future and respect the Rules of Procedure and that the right to indicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure lasts for two minutes. On the other hand, there was also a skill here, and it's a member of the 108st Injury of the Rules of Procedure, a skill. So someone else doesn't bid whether I'm skilled or not, I admit it. I'm not skilled at calling, organizing, real, wishing for a Ukrainian scenario. I'm not even good at wearing Prada's shoes. I'm not even as skilled as many people have done, to empty the budget of various development funds. For those things, so that someone else wouldn't bid here, I'm just admitting, for Prada, for the Ukrainian script, I'm not skilled for the crime scene. As for the speech and manner of interpretation in the National Assembly, however, it will judge and assess the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27280	Mr. Babico, I don't think you're right about the time to advertise the injury. No, you're wrong. I gave you the same thing, you exceeded 20 seconds. You didn't see that, and Borko seemed to be overrun for 15 seconds. Only if I missed two minutes. I don't think so. I just can't believe I missed it so much, but I know you and I know it well, I've allowed 20 seconds, Borko's about 15 seconds. On condition and I'm sorry, if I've really permuted a two for a three. That wasn't the intention. Do you want to make a statement about the injury? No, I don't. ) (Borislav Stefanović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27281	Article 107 because Mr. Babic hurt his dignity in the lack of arguments in his infirmity. He started well, I'll take his suggestion for a second, you've explained it nicely. Then it's gathered to the man and he can't stand it, he goes to the cobblers. He's not skilled,
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27282	Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27283	Please, let me explain. So, the injury is that in the absence of arguments to label a political opponent, it crosses not some of the things you've allowed to spell here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27284	I won't let you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27285	And why won't you let me? Let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27286	No, we'd better get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27287	Let me explain. He claims he's not skilled, and I say he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27288	I'm really asking you to listen to me. I won't allow a replica through the institution of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27289	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seems to be hard to fix if we continue this way of communication in parliament and this way of discussing new laws and amendments to existing laws. In the last three hours, just 15 minutes, not counting the Minister's presentation, we could hear about the importance of the law, the effects that we will have on the lives of citizens in our country who will have an impact on the economy, on the private sector. Personally, I don't think it's right and it's necessary that at least in the course of the day we go back to the effects of the law, to the essence and try to make sure that citizens, other than the negative things that can be seen today in parliament, are some day-to-day politicians conflicts, that there are some good things in this law. So in my presentation, I am about to turn to an analysis of the effects of these laws and how there are positive and largely. Because it's impossible that only 15 minutes past 20 speakers had anything to say about this law, if we're talking about arguments. This means that they either did not prepare carefully or did not want to prepare carefully or wanted to abuse this session as in previous cases. It's not only up to the chairman, and neither can you, unless the team wants to cooperate with you, and everyone is constructive about these laws. So once again, I urge you to talk specifically about the law, if possible. The largest number of obstacles, which has been heard today and which has been used as a clagworth for the subsequent use of time in this House, have been referred to by an untimely sublegal act. I will remind you that this law provides for the sublegal act to fully regulate the system of vocational education and training of private security officers on the basis of an educational need analysis of training programmes, to prescribe all necessary conditions for legal persons and entrepreneurs to meet in order to obtain the authority to carry out such training, to prescribe uniforms to members of private security, the means of use of coercion, the way technical protection is carried out, the appearance and the legitimateisation of private security officers, and to lay down the criteria for the determination of mandatory security facilities and minimum technical conditions in the mandatory installation of the technical protection system in banks and other financial institutions. It is clear from these areas of regulation of sublegal acts how complex the process of making these sublegislative acts is. What I can resent to colleagues who have not spoken sufficiently about this law, according to my assessment, so personally and building myself, is that they have not done what the ministry did in the previous period, and have not consulted themselves, for example, with professional NGOs, with people from the civil sector, with, say, citizens, because all members of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, I am not sure about the other MPs, have received their e-mail and comments, observations and suggestions on how to correct this Law, some of which will be implemented through amendments, will be adopted, or as we have discussed, we will be able to reach an agreement on the adoption of some amendments to the opposition on the move of deadlines, as the minister said. But that's exactly what the Ministry of the Interior was doing, it was conducting broad consultations, within the MUP, professional services, the Police Administration, the Secretariat as responsible for draft regulations, the Education Administration, the IT sector for technical protection affairs. In addition, the necessary consultations with other authorities of the state administration, with the Republic Secretariat for Law. There have been consultations with representatives of the private sector and all of this has created new versions of the acts that needed to be agreed on and made some compromise and the best solution. And these are the reasons why no sublegal act was brought in hastily. What is being warned today was that much faster work was needed, that some simple mathematics was written by one member of the regulations a week, I can only assess the unserious, because such mathematics does not stand in the adoption and correction of the law. At the end of the observation that it is wrong to amend this Law, the work of the Assembly is to bring new ones, but to change, or to amend and supplement existing laws, and it does so on the basis of its control role. So we follow whether a certain legal solution is necessary to correct, whether daily life has forced us to make that change. I see nothing strange about it, but what is within the affairs and competences of the MPs and of the Serbian parliament. When we talk about sublaws, I want to read to you what rules have been made, what has been done so far, what will be done very soon. Therefore, the sub-legislative acts adopted are the Regulation on conditions for the granting of training powers, the Regulation on training programmes, the Regulation on the method of conducting an expert examination, the Regulation on the use of means of duress, the Regulation on the performance of technical protection, the Regulation on uniforms. So, no matter what this sounds like, only six, when someone says and only a few members, I don't think that's how we talk when we pass laws. We don't collect products at the agricultural market. Very complex, very serious work. It is necessary to adopt a regulation on the obligation of secured facilities, which will allow for the amendment of this law, and then the regulation to minimum measures on the protection of banks and financial institutions and the rule on the formal form of the licence. But here are the things that are almost at the outset and almost finished – expert advice, the proposal for a solution on the education of this council has been made and is in the cabinet of the Minister, the examination committee, the proposal for a solution has been drawn up, the last appointments and will be delivered to the signature, the regulation on systemization, has been amended on 24 April, a new organisational unit has been educated at the Police Administration for monitoring and supervision of the application of the law, and it is only necessary to make it operational, the Commission has been educated to resolve legal persons' complaints on first-degree decisions on the granting of authorisation decisions, proposals for Republic administrative fees have been built up, the Ministry of Finance working on the draft law amending the law on the Republic administrative fees, continued co-operation with the private sector agreed on co-operation with the Public Chamber of Serbia through the Commission for Public Relations and Public Relations in the Conference of Serbia. All of what I'm reading is possible that you find it dry, perhaps it's not so interesting for the kind of viewers of the direct transfer of the Serbian parliament, who don't really want to create a good legal framework in our country, and that's our only job, us who are here, and not to entertain the public like different realitys. I think the professional public, especially thanks to the civil sector who have helped me a lot as chairman of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the Committee members who wanted to deal with this with their suggestions, but this is not the first time, and not to be misunderstood, since Minister Stefanovic is at the head of this ministry, is much more transparent, much more active legislative activity, much lively legislative activity, I apologize, and there is a much more transparent way of preparing the bill. The law on police currently being prepared and a public debate that has just been concluded or is near the end is something we can be proud of. And this is a new kind of practice where it is indeed for the professional public, but also for the first time presented to the MPs the bill before it goes before the government, before it comes to parliament, so that we can have as much effect as possible on the moment when the bill and comes to parliament as a result of the compromise and possible solution offered. I think it's the only way to work that should be in the Serbian parliament. I'd like to read some more information to you, which may interest the professional public. According to estimates, when we talk about an analysis of the effects of this law, the private security sector in Serbia employs between 25,000 and 60,000 people. We don't include management, administrative staff. So that number of people has 47,000 pieces of guns. According to the European Private Security Service, continued work in the security sector is recorded every year, but every year we have a growth of 10 to 20% of the private security sector, which means that legal acts that regulated the area of private security, which means that it is very necessary to regulate legislation in the way that is now proposed. Legal acts that had previously regulated the area of private security, such as the Social Self-Protection Act, ceased to exist in 1993 and what we could hear, for the past twenty years this area has not been regulated and only at the end of 2013, a special and comprehensive legal act has been adopted in Serbia that regulates the area of private security. So, for such a long period of 20 years and in addition to these notes, which I have spoken of, about broad consultations and serious preparations and a large number of sublegal acts, really require serious and dedicated work. Why is the adoption of this law the best solution to problems for a private security area so far unregulated? Given that of all countries in the environment of the former SFRY republics, only the Republic of Serbia has had discontinuity in this area for 20 years, other options for resolving the problem have been considered when the law was passed. It was concluded that only by passing laws that would fully regulate this area could we regulate this security sector. And due to the lack of roof law that we can accurately and comprehensively regulate the entire private security sector, the business of private companies in this sector has been regulated in part by several laws governing the rights and obligations of employment, arms and ammunition, business of companies, fire protection, prevention of inappropriate behaviour in sports events, criminal acts, etc. It is precisely the adoption of this Private Security Act, i.e. changes and additions, that regulates the private security sector in the territory of the Republic of Serbia as an integral part of the national security system. Here's another interesting aspect, does this law stimulate the emergence of new operators on the market and market competition? That may also be an interesting aspect we haven't talked about today. The private security law regulates the conduct of private security operations in Serbia's territory, stimulates the emergence of new business entities and competition, as unfair competition is suppressed. For example, the analysis of the unusually low price conducted by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, published in April 2013, suggests that the price of labour in providing security services on the Serbian market is the lowest compared with 34 European countries. Prices are offered 1.5 euros per person, i.e. per hour of work, and the average in 34 European countries is 8.9 euros per person, i.e. an hour of work, resulting in the risk of the employer's bankruptcy in the area of private security, of course not the motivation of security workers, poor quality of services, thereby increasing the vulnerability of protected objects, all under the conditions of increasing the rate of all forms of criminality and the economic policy declared to introduce order on the market and combat the grey zone of business. So, legal solutions, more importantly, effective government supervision will reduce these risks, improve the work and business of operators on the market, stimulate the emergence of new businesses. This law, i.e. the effects of the law, could still be talked about a lot. It's been 15 minutes since I've spoken with those last fifteen minutes, not counting the minister's statement, which is half an hour during today's serious dealing with the effects of this law. I also call on other fellow MPs to get involved by the end of the day, when they will speak individually, to really talk about the effects of this law, to see where the mistakes are, and they are the simplest mathematics2+2 are four and one member of the law is written a week, these are really inconclusive comments and it is not the way that academic citizens of Serbia talk. Thank you again, and the ministers of the SNS parliamentary group will vote in the voting day for this bill, as well as for the ratification of the agreement with the Republic of Albania on the recognition of driving licences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27290	Mrs. Obradovic, I need a little intervention. Besides you, there were other MPs who had a serious debate about the law, just for the sake of correctness. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. ) On what basis? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I was misread. No, no. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Don't lead the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27291	The Honorable Chairman, I believe that the previous debater has injured Article 107. A Rules of Procedure that says that MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. My discussion was evaluated by unworthy academics. I've been discussing the law, how the law is written, about the bad and good consequences of that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27292	Mr. Djurishic, don't lead the line now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27293	I'm explaining to you how dignity has been injured. At no point did I begin to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27294	I totally understand what you're trying to say, and you don't need to lead the line any further now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27295	Let me explain to you in two minutes where I consider it to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27296	I will, if you'll explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27297	Here's what I'm talking about is hurting the Rules of Procedure. Discussions from other MPs have been discussed that the work of this parliament has been unworthy. I was just talking about the fact that these changes to the laws of the government, the work and the work of the government, were looking for responsibility, and I don't know what's unworthy and what's not worthy of academic level of debate. We can't hear anywhere why the job that the billmaker himself predicted would end in six months had to be done 17 months and so many of those rules, how complicated they were to write. I could read to you now what those rules look like, so you could see what was written for 17 months and why it couldn't have been written shorter, but I didn't go that way. I ask you not to qualify this way for the discussion of the Members of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27298	Mr. Djurishic, you're witnessing that I intervened immediately. So I think that this is how I removed all other doubts about the debates of the MPs and I really don't see the basis, and I think that's the kind of injury that you've advertised. You have the right to make a statement in the voting day on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: By Law. Yeah. ) Mr Pavicevic, on what basis? It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr Arsenovic, respected ministers Stefanovic and respected guests from the ministry, were injured by three members of Mr Arsenovic, members 96, 98 and 108. Rules of Procedure. A short time ago I received a order of MPs according to applications for the word again, who knows which time violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenovic. Since we are now going to the discussion in order of the MPs, I ask you to change the order of the application to this list, because in Article 108, Mr Arsenovic, he writes about the session of the National Assembly the president of the National Assembly is taking care of, therefore, the chairman in this case. In Article 98, paragraph 2, reads – if the debate is attended by MPs from several parliamentary groups, the President of the National Assembly gives them a word in turn, so that the MP who is a member of the least-numbered parliamentary group speaks first to the greatest, Mr Arsenovic. We have a case here that after Mr. Zivkovic, who put in the application for a word neither for nor against, instead of speaking to him according to the Rules of Procedure, a member of the parliamentary group who is next by number, which is Mr. Dejan Nikolic from DS, says someone from SNS, Mr. Arsenovic. If you do not intervene, you will contribute to favouring the MPs of the SNS, which is why all of us, MPs of other parties in this National Assembly, will be discriminated against, Your Honor, Mr Arsenovic, in an unequal position. I insist that this order be changed and we stick to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27300	Mr Pavicevic, you are partly right, with the fact that you have not just added that the order applies to MPs who clearly declare themselves whether they are for or against, and that in the end the MPs who have not spoken, are undetermined. That's as much as I can see. Respected. If Branka Karavidic needed me, I apologize to Mrs Karavidic, if she spoke to someone else, I would not really go into that detail right now. I don't see that that's so important, this debate is being conducted professionally. I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I will do this and ask the professional service to keep an eye on the future and to strictly respect the segment provided for by the Rules of Procedure. We move to a debate in order of the MPs declared by word. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27301	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of my fellow Members, I must take advantage of the first thirty seconds of my time I have to fully agree with a colleague who spoke earlier, who is otherwise well run by the Security Committee. I would also like to address you personally, Mr. Chairman, because I highly respect and respect you as perhaps the most valuable and most important vice president in our House, so as not to allow your good nature and your good will to be used to the maximum benefit of demagogy and populism that has killed us so far, as we have been killed and calls for responsibility, and of responsibility, at least when we are alone, no sign of a voice. Of course, I'm going to use this time to get back on the subject as quickly as possible, because I don't think today is the time for demagogy or populism, but it's time for this job that we have done as soon as possible. Besides, the citizens who chose us, that's why they chose us here, not to watch the circus that individuals are trying to make. Today we are talking about complex matter that is first put into serious legal frameworks. This law will reduce business in the so-called grey area of business by introducing financial discipline and applying to compulsory social security of employed labour, thus reducing the ability to work on black or entering into a professional training contract, as the law stipulates that only persons licensed by the Ministry of these jobs, as well as the obligation of legal persons and entrepreneurs to have a certain number of employees on these jobs can do so. The draft law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act does not create new obligations for citizens and businesses, as this was the case. It should be made clear that this is also the case on the board and that, after the argument, everyone voted unanimously for the bill. So, some of the misunderstandings are resolved on the board, and then it comes back to the session to talk about it. I find that rather unserious. The prescribed fee would certainly be charged through a system of republican administrative taxis, so that its forecast does not create a new non-existent obligation for the private security sector so far, and that should be made clear. The private security law regulates the conduct of private security business in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, stimulates the emergence of new business entities and competition suppresses unfair competition. Mr. Minister, I would still be here, when we talk about unfair competition, I would have to point out that the business of transporting money does not go to public tenders, but only certain companies have done so far. They made a lot of money, and then they were able to offer unreally low prices that were often below and thus threw out easy competition. I hope, however, that this substance will be regulated in sublegal acts or through regulations. We heard here and some, of course, good suggestions when it came to the subject that came from the opposition. As far as I was able to see, these proposals were literally copied from word to word when it came to the expert public who pleaded in public debates and I believe that it is good and I have no doubt that the expert teams that exist at the Ministry will seriously consider it. It is good that the Ministry of the Interior has prepared a proposal for a regulation to regulate the provision of objects of importance to the Republic of Serbia, to prescribe the appearance and content of a form of legitimacy of official private security, as well as the level of the fee for its issue by applying the methodology for the calculation of fees, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act and by obtaining a positive opinion from the Ministry of Finance. I'd add here - with an examination requires the market, because I think it's necessary to have a real picture and an idea of what it requires of us. The effectiveness of the examination committees should be unquestionable and this has been assessed by the expert public, because they represent the control body issuing certificates on quality security officers. Serious questioning is a guarantee of quality, but it takes time, and the MUP needs to educate a large enough number of commissions to examine all security officers in a consistent manner. I think it is extremely important, because one of the solutions that is being imposed is reduced time for questioning to improve the efficiency of these commissions' work. Plus, I'd like to add something that I also find extremely important, which is constant control. It's very important, because we've had opportunities in the past to see what's been going on in all sorts of rafts and nightclubs, where it's often been the peaks of dark events. That is why a high-quality security assessment of persons from this sector is necessary, as well as persons from the MUP who have worked so far and who will work as security. A particularly significant problem is that so far there has been no security checks on the owners and responsible persons of the private security company, which in my opinion is one of the main causes of the tragedies and murders that occurred in the past. I especially note again when it comes to nightclubs and rafts, which have been kind of common when it comes to events like this. This has constantly led us to deal with the consequences, not preventative, which, unfortunately, was often the case when some of the chances of the past are missed. As far as I was able to see from the debate itself, there are no big concerns about the amendments to this law, except when we want to take this opportunity to move on to some other topics that are not the subject of today's debate. I see it's good that there's an agreement at the Ministry of Time extension, which I'm guessing will go through the amendments. I find that, of course, more than useful. It's also good, when we talk about market research, that there are possible problems that are raised on fees, because I don't think that the amount of these taxis should be passed by sublegal acts. There is the possibility of some poor assessment, but it is therefore extremely important that we have a good market examination. These changes to the law, I suppose, will bring something good. What we can appeal for, it's just constant control of how he's being executed. I must finally say that the Ministry has shown seriousness, and not only when it comes to regulating this matter, and our parliamentary group in the Voting Day will give full support to the adoption of the amendment of this law, but also give full support to the Ministry on the unquestionably reformed path this ministry and the minister himself has shown over the past year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27302	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Branka Karavidic, and let the MP Borisav Kovacevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27303	I'd like the minister to be present. Can I speak later when the minister returns?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27304	The minister's only out for a minute, but if you insist, we can set a break. You want a break? Yeah. I'm setting a break until the minister returns. [[after breaks]] We'll continue with further work. As you can see, we are far more democratic than we present ourselves, especially if there are certain DS ministers in America and there was no one in the Assembly to defend their laws, such as Bozidar Djelic. Here you go. Ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27306	Mr. Chairman, what you said earlier is very disputable. I can only at the beginning of my discussion to find that Minister Stefanovic has no capacity as prime minister and cannot be from 8 to 14 hours in the hall uninterrupted. I respect that, of course, and I don't mind the break that was given. Let me get to the agenda, if you'll allow me. This is another proposal to amend and supplement the law delaying its application. This time, the application of the Private Security Act is delayed. The law was passed in November 2013. The ministry was obliged to adopt sub-legislative acts within six months of the date of entry into force, and legal persons, private security entrepreneurs and natural persons, to comply with the law within 18 months of the date of entry into force of this law. In the light of the proposed amendments, you say: "The first objective that will be achieved by amending this law is to enable the private security sector of the adequate time period to comply with the provisions of the law, since the original deadline of the prescribed law cannot be met because the Republic of Serbia has not created the preconditions for this. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” This sentence is the essence of this bill. In other words, the ministry was irresponsible and it did not bring all sublaws until today after 18 months, and was obliged to bring them in within six months. Perhaps the private security sector would show more preparedness for its obligation to bring this work into line with the law, while the ministry responsiblely did its part of the job in time. Mr. Minister, the law was supposed to start to apply on 6 May 2015, and we're still at the very beginning. And of course, there are always bad excuses for bad work, such as. - turns out to be too short a deadline to meet those obligations. It's thought, of course, of making sublegal acts. I quote this part of the argument. Or, let's say, it's clear how complex their work has been and required from different aspects, etc. There are still many pointless excuses, without a single sentence and without a single one – responsibility for not fulfilling the obligation lies with the MUP. That would be fair to all those who are interested in working this law on time. I know what your answer will be, Mr. Minister. That it's not your fault, that you've only been at the head of the ministry for a year. That is a fact, but the fact is that this government has been going on for three years. Who didn't do their job properly? The previous minister seems to have taken more care of his music repertoire for his term than of the making of sublegal acts essential to the application of this law. I'm sure we'll agree on one thing, I hope. This time you won't be able to blame, as you all like to say, the previous regime. The current regime is guilty of being delayed by the irresponsible and irresponsible work of the application of this law by 1 January 2016, and Serbian citizens should know. It's your constant repetition -- they're the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the This is the moment for citizens to be told – the current regime has drawn up a bill, referred it to the Assembly for adoption, with deadlines that it could not meet and now, with these changes, it proposes to postpone its application for January 2016. How can we change this practice? I have two suggestions. The first is – or you will send to the assembly procedure draft laws with pre-made sublaws or you will need to introduce a practice of setting realistic deadlines for the production of sublaws, as a basic condition for the start of law enforcement, so that they do not remain a dead letter on paper, and, of course, also a criminal policy should be considered, aimed at competent state authorities that violate those deadlines. We don't have a third. You say that since 2007, the private security sector has been seeing growth in continuity, and each year this growth is compared to the previous year, say, 10% in 2007 compared to 2006 and, say, 20% in 2010 compared to 2009. You're saying the data suggests that the annual financial turnover in the security sector is about 180m euros. You say there are no accurate numbers of registered companies, that between 25,000 and 60,000 people are employed in the sector. The figure of around 180m euros is only part of the earnings reported in official financial reports that are attached to the APR. So only part of the total profit of private security companies is subject to taxation by the Republic of Serbia. Due to the functioning of this sector in the gray area of business, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is estimated to be losing several tens of millions of euros annually. That money is there and it just needs to make an effort in time, make sublaws, make it possible for the law to live, and there will be no loss in the state register. For these reasons, Mr. Minister, we should have done our best to get this law started on June 5th 2015. A whole very important area would be arranged, and no small funds would be added to the Serbian budget. I'd be downplaying my ability to work in black. At the same time, security workers would be protected at work, with paid contributions. You say further that full implementation of the law, other than the adoption of sublegal acts, requires other changes in the system of the Republic of Serbia, starting with organisational changes within the Ministry of the Interior. Is there a commission in place to conduct an expert exam? The extension of the deadline will allow the MUP to be organised for full implementation of the law. Isn't that what she should have done in the last 18 months? With this irresponsible behavior, you have shown that your sole goal is to pass a law without intent to enforce it. In your analysis, in which you claim that it is possible to carry out training 74,850 persons by the end of 2015 if they start training in April 2015. You estimate that the number of people who can be trained by 74,850 is double the number of people currently working in this sector. Did training begin in April as it is in your description of these laws? I am interested in how you comment on the private sector assessments in the security area, which took place on a roundtable held in April of the month, claimed that the deadline for implementation of the law proposed by the ministry was short, where they proposed a deadline by 2018. What were their arguments? Did they have a number-supported analysis, too? I think the deadline you suggested is too short. If the ministry needed 18 months, I think the minimum time limit for the private sector that should comply with the law but according to all the sublaws adopted should be 1 April 2016. Which, of course, is our proposal through the amendments. Parliament group Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party – Together for Serbia – Green Serbia, has submitted amendments, and some of them are precisely related to these deadlines. For the above reasons, our parliamentary group cannot support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27307	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27308	We have to start from the beginning, and that's from the arrangements of this area. I'm absolutely sure that you've prepared yourself in detail, that you've entered all the regulations, such as the regulations on training, we can talk about how many pages there are, how many members you'll see. It's a very serious rule, very large to be worked on by a group of experts. We should calculate in fact how much we lost from 2000, as you said, that led me to this, until 2013, to the adoption of this law on the disorder of areas of those years. All those governments that were irresponsible, absolutely irresponsible, brutally irresponsible to Serbian citizens, who made the state, citizens and employees of these companies and these companies lose profits from 2000 to 26 November 2011. So, how much profit was lost, how suffered by workers who had no legal protection, how suffered by workers who did not have the right to minimum income during that period, how suffered by those people who did not have the right to a minimum of human dignity during this period because they worked in an unregulated area in which previous authorities had not qualified, not to pass the laws, absolutely in 155 months did not bring one member of the law, not a rule far away, did not bring an absolutely one point of this law. So much for setting it up and doing it. My predecessor to the MUP and I were working to get this bill passed, to get the rules, but not by sitting down, bringing, writing what the minister might do, sending to the National Assembly if he has a majority, most of us adopting it and moving on. No, we consulted with the Chamber of Commerce, we consulted with the Ministry of Finance, with civil society, we consulted with representatives of the company that worked and, of course, the Ministry of Finance, with our legislation that had to bring all of this into line. The businessmen complained the same at the pace, and they needed more time. We have issued 29 training powers, 29 companies are authorized to carry out training, in the process another ten, so 40 companies will be very soon in the full system and able to carry out training, fully capable of conducting training for the security sector, or for the private security that this is intended to provide. Of course, it's not possible to pass sublegal acts before the law is passed, because you never know what the final form of the law will be, what will be all the changes, so writing sublegal acts in advance doesn't make a lot of legal sense. However, of course, what should come when sublegal acts are written you have to look at the whole frame of society, in which this area is located. Since she was a mess, we had, like I said today, an empty paper. Nothing, zero, minus. Absolutely a mess. The existence of the security sector, but without the arrangements, absolutely and the desire to settle it. Well, then we've arranged it, we've passed the law, and now it's critical of it -- sorry, our irresponsibility, we haven't joked for 13 years to do it properly, but now this six-month delay, it's terrible, it's the worst thing in the world and it's better if we didn't pass the law, it's better if we left it unsettled, it's better than that, now imagine it's six months delaying, and at the request of the people who need to go through training and at the request of those who found that we need more time to do it in a quality way. What? We were supposed to hurry up, do what we did when we ran out of 400,000 jobs, when companies went bankrupt. When they promised us we'd still profit from the crisis. Well, we remember how we profited from the 2008 crisis. Is that how the Ministry of Interior and this government should have done it? That's not how we're gonna do it. We're not going to work to promise 1,000-euro action to win the election, we're thinking of. We are the government that has come to the conclusion that from the budget deficit that was enormous, recorded in this part of Europe, it is now 40% smaller, almost half smaller than what the IMF predicted, optimistic forecasts for this year. So we've come to the IMF changing its assessment that today we're going to change by minus 0.5 GDP growth to zero. I expect by the end of the year to predict growth. This government has shown it can run the country economically. The government has shown that it can take care of Serbian citizens as well. Unfortunately, there was not enough hearing in the security sector during the previous period. There was not enough hearing and that this law was passed, just no one cared about it. We did our best. This ruling majority, I was then President of Parliament, this ruling majority made an effort to see this law see the light of day, to begin to edit. Is all of Serbia ideal and is everything going at the speed we would love? I'm sure you don't. I'm absolutely sure not, but it's much better. You know, it's much better when you have a law that regulates something. It's much better when you have people who've saved 45 interrogators through 10 commissions. It's much better when you're in constant contact with these people from the economy who can hire people, who can provide minimum earnings and labour protection than for all those years when the result was zero. Absolute zeroes even when those people had nothing to hope for. That was the result back then, and this is the result now. Now, that was irresponsible, and it was a top-notch, brutal irresponsibility of the government both to the citizens and to the security sector and to all those people who didn't have any working legal protection, no minimum mode of work, no quality training, and exposed to risks, because they were carrying weapons and participating in doing a job that was extremely difficult. I mean, these people are people, and I'm sorry that people are underestimating it here, some people who pointed out words like that, people from the MUP work hard. It doesn't matter who the minister is. These people are really working really hard and trying to do their job professionally, to make the crime rate in Serbia smaller, to commit to the state. I read it a little while ago and I don't find it hard again, all the laws we've passed in the last year alone, which will help protect lives, provide a better and safer framework for all Serbian citizens. I am convinced that people will see, and these will say men and women in uniform and those who do it outside the uniform of the MUP, dedicated to this job and think about the citizens of Serbia every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27309	Thank you. Mrs. Karavidic, on what grounds? Branka Karavidić, from the place: Replica. Explanation because he didn't understand. He didn't understand you? All right, let's go, straight to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27310	Thank you. What do you say? The manner of this government is that it always answers questions that are not asked without answering the questions that are being asked. I almost knew what kind of answer I was going to get. I'd like to remind you of something. I have a stenogram from a session held in 2013 when Interior Minister Ivica Dacic was. In a debate with distinguished counterpart Borko Stefanovic, Mr. Ivica Dacic says about the law we are talking about today that the law was in the procedure in 2011, that she adopted it as he says "your government and our government" and was in the assembly procedure here. He was returned for remarks. I said I came back because there were objections to the text of the law and he was returned. It was a similar text back then. Anyone who doesn't believe should check in the congregation archives. One more thing, then, doesn't start with you. I would just like to remind you that the previous government has brought the National Security Strategy on the basis of which this law was also on the agenda. I really don't understand why you're answering a question I'm not asking you. I am interested – who is responsible for being late 18 months with the making of sublaws? Nothing else. Simple question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27311	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27312	First, the National Security Strategy, which you are referring to, was brought first and foremost for the area of defence. Do you know how many members of the National Security Strategy? You don't know. No, no, I can see you don't know. I can see you don't know. I want the citizens of Serbia to see that they are mostly, as always, casually expressed objections without any substance. What was the National Security Strategy and what were the results? We had one Kumet, Cosmajec and Saric who were prominent citizens and who invested in this country. It was the policy of this National Security Strategy. It was this policy and it was the way you looked at Serbia and its citizens. Secondly, I can always know, as you say, what kind of questions you're going to ask, since they're always the same. They're always the same. Do you know how many MPs have invited me since last year, in the last year, to ask me how far we've come with the Private Security Act? Zero. None of them are interested, none of them. No one asked me to ask, no one asked me, nobody asked me. How many went to other companies to check it out? So, interest is only on the day it's found on the agenda for daily political reasons. It is the same right of MPs, but at least to show the citizens who are really interested and for what reasons. We're talking today. I've given you a thousand arguments. We've accredited 29 and there are ten other institutions in the process that can train these people. If you think it was an easy process, come and speak freely with these people who were professionally involved in this and explain to you how it was done and what were all the preconditions and assumptions to go from the absolute zero that you left us. From an absolute zero, because you started it all, but you can't finish it. It was a sincere desire for something to end, only it couldn't end. Secondly, the Ivica Dacic you mention is part of this government. What's done is done together. This government can work together. We're not giving up any good projects, but this wasn't a project that you started, none of you, and the support you were giving, shows results from 2012 to 2013, could not be found on the agenda. In a year's time, after the government's decision, it couldn't be found on the Assembly's agenda. It was so important to you, the Law on this area, absolutely. We're trying to get good sublegals. Six sublegal acts have been adopted in the last few months. These sublegal acts will allow normal functioning and better functioning of this sector. We will bring the rest when we are together with our partners from the economy, civil society, legislation, finance, we estimate that this is best for the citizens of Serbia and for the development of this sector. I am fully convinced that we will need less time, as I have explained to one of your colleagues, and regarding sublegal acts for which it does not take so long, such as sublegal acts relating to the application of means to replace uniforms. This does not require coordination, but is directly applied. So that's why we're going to need less time. Could it have been faster? Our economy isn't ready for that. It's the first time we've met a matter that's never been edited, and now it's being arranged. At this point I am convinced that, I was ready to accept an amendment that would be moved until April 2016, so that we would have the certainty that we would have more people to train. I hope people check in. That no longer depends on the Ministry of the Interior. It depends on the market, on the competition, on those people who conduct training, on the conditions, on the wishes of people who work in the security sector to be accredited and to undergo certain training. The training will be rigorous, the regulations will be rigorous. It is necessary for people working in this sector to go through this kind of education, training, so that people who carry guns on the streets are fully prepared to perform such difficult tasks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27313	The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27314	Mr. Chairman, respected ministers Stefanovic, respected co-workers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, the Law on Private Security, as has been said and repeated here many times, for the first time regulates one decade of unregulated matter, i.e. the sector of social, state, as you will, the work in this country. This carries difficulties, according to the minister on several occasions, because there is no level and degree of experience in determining such action in society and the application of the law. I think that, regardless of what is said here and from which motives, it doesn't matter, the proposed amendments and additions of this law are entirely justified and in accordance with what we expect, through experience, the application of the law matures in this society. As for the deadline for the application of the law, I agree, and we are likely to do so through the proposed amendments, the minister has already indicated a willingness to accept such amendments, and in terms of extending the time limit for the application of the law. No matter how we do it or what deadline we define ourselves, it seems to me that we haven't clearly defined what law enforcement means. Is this a time limit to which we should be prepared in every sense, and institutions, and legal persons involved, and private security users for full application of the law, or is it a time limit when absolutely full law enforcement really needs to be carried out, if the application of the law can be absolutely absolute? I will say only one thing, we can now take and not April 1st, we can take the end of 2016, but many things will depend on whether we will be and then apply the law. Let's just say, I'm going to say one thing, which may be one of the more ephemeral things, will also depend on how many private security users so far are going to define themselves as so-called. autonomous private security, i.e. how many companies in this country will be identified as their own security. Let's say that it will also condition many things and so on, and so on. Therefore, we must be flexible about this. Secondly, I want to give my attention to the criticisms here that are about breaking deadlines in the definitive regulation through the accompanying acts of this law and so on, until the beginning of application and so forth. You know, I'm currently in charge of a professional association that's been in the business of private security for 47 years, including 24 years, I've been in this expert association. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about when you have that experience and when you're in that area, then you see the other side. He can't and won't be guilty of law enforcement, respecting deadlines, or being able to be, can only be institutions, and it's not just up to them, depending on those who apply private security, who deal with private security, but also on the users of that private security. So let's not be exclusive and say it's exclusively the Ministry's fault. It's not just the Ministry's fault. I'm not defending anyone, nor can it be the only guilty minister. I think we're going to be in a situation, since I say this is a new substance, I expect, and there will be no surprise at all, if we have new amendments and additions to this law in the beginning of the next year or half of the year. Because the application of the law will dispel in practice many things and problems that we will have to build on. To me, it's no wonder, one law that's brand-new that has to be upgraded through conflicting changes and supplementing that matter. I'm just going to say a few things that basically made me come to the phone. Just before I took my word, it's here about the National Security Strategy. The minister said one thing along the way, which, and it is the reason, which requires, but has many more elements changed than the period when this current strategy was adopted. Simply, the political, social, security environment has changed and it requires innovation of the National Security Strategy. Given that one social resort runs which is one of the most significant segments of national security, and I also think, I will run it through the Committee on Security and Home Affairs, and officially that through the Committee we are going to do so, I think we should approach, of course, nothing over our knees, well organized, for change, or for a new National Security Strategy. Why did I mention this? Because we now have a private security segment for the first time regulated legally. It is not possible in the National Security Strategy to now be seen as a segment of national security by the media, and not to be considered a segment of national security of the private security sector, which has swimming, now an aproxative still data, that you have an entire army of 40,000, 50,000 people, with 60 to even, are being processed and 90,000 pipes. It must be very precise and clearly integrated into the national security system. And by that I will now say one lack of the great law that we now have. I was talking about him, if anyone remembers and when we adopted him. We have a private security law in which we have nothing regulated and prescribed regarding the Agency or the private security company, in an emergency situation, in direct military danger, not to speak in a war situation. Why does that get more delicate? Because in this private security system there was a very present and very relevant and significant security system present ino factor, through a large number of foreign security companies working here. How are we going to establish a rule tomorrow and how the owner of a security company like that will behave, which has several thousand employees with several thousand pipes, etc. How will he behave and what are his obligations in these situations that I have listed? Finally, and in a regular situation. Who commands these men with thousands of pipes in such conditions? His country or the stranger who gives him the job? I just threw in one problem that's being put up like that. That's why I think I'm initiating such a thing as it seems to me, a very significant general state issue that needs to be settled. In the end, I'd just like to say, let's say that when we approach a debate about these things, about the amendments and the additions of any law, to make it clear to us how we approach it, because today there's a lot of talk here about the fact that changes and additions to this law have not been initiated in general. In some not moments, but in all the part of the debate we discussed as if we had sat down, I was under the impression that this assembly was to be discussed whether a certain law should be changed and on what plan, in which direction should it be changed? And it could be a debate. That could be initiated by the board of directors. It's not illegal, but I think we sit here when we talk about changes and additions when we talk about proposed changes and additions, not everything possible. We can suggest that changes and additions be made in some new approach. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27315	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27316	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. Fully grateful for the constructive remarks you have made, I really think it contributes, and we will have in the next period when the full application of the law begins, an opportunity, of course, I am sure, it seems to me that Slovenia has changed this law five times. Simply, when something is completely new, there is always a better quality, better solution that needs to be improved and applied. What I'm saying is, we've started preparing, I haven't dated that in a while, but you mentioned it, a new internal security strategy. Such a strategy has never been adopted in Serbia so far. It will be the first time that the Republic of Serbia has adopted an internal security strategy and I will certainly consult both parliamentary groups and people like you with great experience in this area when we bring this strategy, because I think it is very important for our country. I understand your concern and I've been thinking about it myself. We have, however, through the Defence Act and the Emergency Act, a regulated way for the Ministry of Defence, who, in certain situations, takes over, so to speak, layman's command over everything and does not recognize where anyone works, but, of course, has the right to mobilize and to, say, direct a number of people to solve such a situation and, of course, the Emergency Act that provides for the possibility of using extra employees, but is not precise enough and not good enough and leaves many questions, as you said, about some sensitive situations - what happens to people who are really armed and who can be an element, they can't be, but they are an element in seeing internal security. It will certainly be one of the topics in our internal security strategy and I will invite you very much to discuss it together. Thank you anyway for the suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27317	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. He's not here. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27318	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today, I will discuss today's presentation on the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual recognition of driving licences. The agreement was signed in Belgrade on 17 December 2014 with the aim of strengthening and improving police co-operation between our two countries. At the same time, this agreement is one step forward in the relations between our two countries, which in particular have been very complex over the last 50 years. This is particularly expressed through the desire to help Serbian citizens staying in Albania to obtain an Albanian driver's license, they will exercise this right on the basis of the possession of a Serbian driver's license, which will be sufficient to obtain an Albanian driver's license without additional costs and additional laying. In particular, the agreement provides for Article 1 to mutual recognition by contracting parties of valid driving licences other than temporary, test and similar driving licences issued by the competent authorities of the other Contracting Party. In accordance with their national legislation, when used in traffic in their territory and agreed to allow their replacement to drivers who have been granted residence or stay on their territory. It is provided that the driving licence issued by the competent authority of one Contracting Party cannot be used in traffic on the territory of the other Contracting Party after the expiry of the period of stay established by the national legislation of each of the Contracting Parties. Article 4 provides that the procedure for replacing the driver’s licence issued by the competent authorities requires the contracting parties to apply also a health certificate confirming that the applicant is able to manage a motor vehicle, i.e. a vehicle set of appropriate categories, to replace the driver’s licence. In the process of replacing the driver’s licence, the parties contracted shall recognise the relevant categories of driving licences on the basis of technical tables equivalent to those contained in the Annex to the Agreement. Article 8 provides that, during the process of replacing the driver’s license, the competent authorities of the contracted parties shall withdraw the replacement driver’s licenses and return them to the competent authority of the other Contracting Party via the diplomatic consular office, together with the list of replacement driver’s licenses and notifications. The agreement also concludes an indefinite period of time. In addition to this, Serbia and Albania signed a series of agreements between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania to encourage and protect investments, the Agreement between Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Albania on the avoidance of double taxation against income and property taxes, the Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism between Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Albania, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens. Dear fellow MPs, we are witnessing that political co-operation, which has been intensified since 2010, has been strengthened in 2013 by talks by then-Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and Albanian President Bujar Anisani, extended by last year's meeting in Belgrade of Prime Ministers Vukic and Rama. All of this has led to a slight improvement in overall relations, and this is particularly highlighted in the area of the economy. Namely, our mutual relations at the upcoming level also show the economic data according to which the exchange of goods is the basis for economic co-operation and characterises a prominent surplus on Serbia's side. In January-December 2013, exports amounted to 87.9m euros and imports of 12.1m euros. In 2012, Serbia's exports amounted to 68.2m euros and imports of 10.8m euros. These indicators further encourage and point to the need for further normalisation of relations, which is needed in Serbia and Albania. By supporting this agreement, we believe that overall relations will improve, but at the same time it should be pointed out what the current situation of Serbs in Albania, in which all areas need to be harmonised, the position that minorities achieve both in Serbia and at the European level. That is why it is necessary to address some of the burning issues concerning the position of Serbs in Albania. According to estimates, about 30,000 Serbs live in Albania. According to our people in Albania, they find it extremely difficult to survive and preserve their own identity. Many new Albanian laws remain contrary to European conventions and prevent minorities from exercising their rights to national identity. Some schools in Serbian. The declaration of nationality is prohibited, as well as the use of traditional names and last name on – ić. The right to education and information in Serbian, keeping in touch with the country of origin is difficult, as is the right to freedom of religion. Problems include, in addition to the difficult economic situation, huge administrative and financial obstacles to the return of violently Albanians' names and last names. Serbia's nationality and defined as Albanian has been erased in the parent books. Also, Serbs are not represented in Albania's parliament. Although we support the agreement that we are discussing today, we feel it is necessary in future talks and co-operation between our two countries that the problem of the Serb community and its representation should be a priority and a regulated issue. Desiring to further improve our relations in the future, which will help solve the problems and difficulties that Serbs face in achieving their minority rights in Albania, the SPS parliamentary group will support the Agreement on mutual recognition of driving licences in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27319	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27320	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to work a little further with the minister on why we are discussing this law today and whether the fact that 155 months, as he said, were not done, the reason why we today 17 months, since the law was passed, we are discussing and we are realizing that what this parliamentary majority has committed to adopt within six months, has failed to do in 17 months and is now looking for a new time and extension of the law. The minister might know that it's not true that this government wrote this law from the beginning on white paper, as it is someone. So, on October 22, 2010, the State Secretary, Mr Todorovic, or the secretary of the ministry, who is here today, at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, as the Assembly Committee was then called, said the private security bill had been completed. Why hasn't that law been passed? So ask your coalition partner. Mr. Dacic was Minister of the Interior at the time. Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic was the president of parliament. Why wasn't that on the Assembly agenda, ask your coalition partners, not to say 155 months that nothing was done, and then you came and did something. You didn't do anything, or how did you do it? The rules on programmes and how to conduct private security training, one of the regulations that should have been adopted. It was adopted on 29 October 2014, 11 months after the adoption of the law, not six months as scheduled. He has 10 members, so you wrote one member a month. How long did it take you to write this article, Article 1: “This Regulation prescribes a program and way of conducting professional training of security officers – to carry out private security tasks (hereinafter referred to as professional training)”. It took you a month, so for the next month, let’s say you write a member of the regulation: “The training is planned and organized according to the requirements of legal persons and entrepreneurs, or individuals who perform the work of private security, with which evidence of compliance with the conditions for attending training is provided. Professional training is carried out through lectures, exercises, courses, workshops and other forms of learning and education according to established programmes, and is carried out theoretically, practically, consulting-instructive work and in other appropriate ways both according to the plans and in the terms established by the trainers. The training of security officers is conducted in a way that takes 45 minutes of training, and the number of training classes should not exceed six hours a day. Classes can be connected in two hours, with a two-hour break of at least ten minutes. Candidates who have confidence in an expert fire protection test shall not be required to attend part of training from the training programme and from the subject of fire protection.” So, a month for this complicated text. I believe, of course, I'm a cartoon, and this isn't true, and that people at the ministry were doing their job, but there wasn't anyone to push them a little bit, to tell them -- let's adopt it within six months, why 11 months, why 13, why 17 months. We're talking about this responsibility here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27321	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27322	I have to say what's a complete fact, I know it hurts, but the result and the brutal irresponsibility of the government that ruled Serbia at that time and who in 155 months brought in zero members, none of them were adopted during that period, you can imagine how slow they were working, you simply couldn't read a single article. No member for so many years could sit down and write, not a single member. At least they wrote one. I understand, not all of them are the same, but one that they wrote, one rule, so to say, we stopped at one rule, we couldn't anymore, of course they didn't pass the law or care, especially since they were standing in the congregation procedure. He could stand as far as they were concerned, that he was acidifying himself for another ten years, absolute indifference, absolute irresponsibility. The word became completely unknown in the dictionary of those people who had 650 government sessions, of which 500 telephones. They hated coming to the government's meetings. It speaks of responsibility, how difficult it was, and much professional thought was at that time, and results were brought that led to half of Serbia being out of work. But what's not said here, which is that the components, for example, are components. These rules were training programs. Training programs are components of the rulebook. The rule has 10 members, but each one was followed by training programs that were done on the basis of people who were serious, professional, sitting, writing, that led to people who are training tomorrow having a way to get dressed, to have a place to dress, and a way to properly define this is followed by this rule. Of course, it also takes knowledge to know that, in order to be professional, you need to have a way to discuss something that is not a matter that can't be said that many people in this Parliament know very well. So, it's been seriously done on this. I'm sorry we didn't work even faster, but unlike zero results in 155 months, I know it doesn't fit to be heard, but the result was really one big zero, from that zero we came to the point that the area was finally arranged, that we had a new law, that we had a regulated rule and that we would end this job and next year we would have a full application of the law, and of course, I'm convinced, and to change this law in the future when everything that is shown in practice as a lack or deficiency is being eliminated, I hope as little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27323	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Momir Stojanovic, and let MP Miletic Mihajlovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27324	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, from the discussion of my predecessors on the amendment and addition of the Private Security Act, imposes one basic remark, which is that the MUP did not implement this law within the scheduled time limit. I would say that the key observation is that the key advantage of the minister and his ministry and I congratulate them, as many laws have been passed in this House from 2000 to 2012, for the past two and a half years, but I have not noticed that, as in this case, the course of implementation has been followed in the practice of the laws passed. It is precisely because the MUP requires an extension of the deadline for all key provisions of this Private Security Act to be implemented in practice that the ministry is responsible for accessing the realisation of the already adopted Private Security Act. Criticism comes precisely from those who in the past 12 years, say, have not dared to pass any law on private security. What is required by the amendments to this law? Objects of particular importance for the defence and security of the country, whose physical security is regulated by some other laws governing the work of the Ministry of Defence, are required to exempt from the mandatory physical security provided for in this law. It's logical and normal. I am grateful to colleagues Kovacevic for raising many questions as a professional man who knows it well, because if we leave security to companies dealing with physical and technical security, I am afraid that many would not meet the basic security conditions so that they could protect such facilities from special importance for the defence and security of the country. The second remark refers to mandatory fees. What steams the eyes of opposition MPs is a provision on proposed changes that regulates that the minister will determine the amount of tax for obtaining a permit for persons engaged in physical security. This fear is unwarranted because the regulation on how to determine taxis accurately regulates the way taxis are determined, so that the fear that the MIP will collect additional revenues, that it will be a new force on the villa and on the citizens is unwarranted. I would take this opportunity when I'm talking about private security to distract the minister and his associates, to try to improve this area in some way. I would ask the competent authorities of the criminal police department to check, first of all, with larger public enterprises, whether the legal provision is respected that every year tenders for the physical technical security of these companies are being investigated? I'll tell you right away, let's say, EPS, some other firm, Telecom, is not respected by this legal provision, but by automation, companies that already carry out physical technical security lasts for a year, and it's been going on for ten years. If we continue to scratch behind what is hidden, we might find some corruption related to the managers of these public enterprises and company managers involved in physical technical security. I would ask, and I would take this opportunity to get to know the public, to check and see that many large public enterprises do not respect the legal provision to open a tender for physical technical security every year. I would ask the MUP to try to develop the criteria of hiring companies for physical technical security, as well as to establish institutions, companies that cannot be provided, other than objects that are governed by the regulation on the physical technical and counterintelligence of facilities of particular importance for the security and defence of the country, to provide for some other economic operators which cannot be provided with private physical technical security. Why? If you were to exchange information with security services and with all institutions in the security sector, you could find that behind certain powerful companies working on our market are powerful intelligence and security systems of some countries. I don't say that for no reason. Is it acceptable to hire such companies for physical and technical security from the aspect of preserving business policy, protecting licenses, protecting business policy? And, by the way, this isn't just about physical-technical security, it's about hygiene, office business, monter work. The activity of these companies is expanded, which are essentially physical and technical security, and the expansion of these activities, and how in a safe sense endangers some of our vital systems, such as Telecom, EPS, and that I do not speak some important systems that are important for the functioning of the state. It is therefore necessary to request an opinion from the security sector’s professional services on the issue of a license to hire such undertakings to provide such systems. This is where opposition MPs talked about everything and everything. It was there and wisdom, from when you came to power you realized that your ratings were falling slowly and that one day you would be an opposition. According to the number of MPs gathering the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, it will have to take a long time to lose so much citizens' trust that some opposition parties will have a majority in this parliament. There were also estimates and threats that the public would soon learn about the power and strength of some opposition parties and that they would one day exercise power, and that the Serbian Progressive Party would be in opposition. Well, I'd tell the citizens -- if we do bad things, if one day they decide to replace us with someone else, don't do it with those who made their lives worse from 2000 to 2012, let them opt for even a better solution. One letter said it didn't start all of us. Right, but surely with the power of the Serbian Progressive Party, the fight for reforms begins, the fight against a link with crime, the fight for a better life for citizens, and the fight for their own people not to lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27325	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Miletic Mihajlovic, and let the MP Milija Miletic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27326	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Associates of the Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us the Private Security Act again, in fact its amendments and additions. As we already know, this law was first adopted in 2013, more precisely at the end of 2013, and was prescribed to give deadlines of six months from the date of entry into force for the execution and application of this task, which meant the adoption of certain sublegal acts. On the other hand, legal entities, private security entrepreneurs, as well as private security individuals, must comply with the provisions of the law and sublaws and in accordance with sublegal acts within 18 months. When this law was passed, and then we may have been aware that this might be too short, but given the fact that two decades were not working on this plan, there may have been a legitimate ambition that could be completed within this prescribed deadline, as the law then passed, all these jobs that were foreseen for the adoption of sublegal acts and as regards the fact that legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons had to comply with their work and to illustrate the provisions of the law. It could be assumed there might be a breakthrough. And it's been too long, and no one has ever dealt with this matter. Of course, one wish and one will existed to be done within that time limit, but perhaps it was not a good enough estimate, which is not terrible. It can't be a stumbling block now compared to what we're supposed to do today to change it, to compare it and make all the jobs end in the future prescribed deadline that we're going to bring here. These deadlines are in the law, and that's January 1, 2016, but I would also agree with that, the minister has already mentioned here, that maybe we should think about moving that deadline over a few months to make it more realistic, to actually live in practice. We have to say that the issue of private security is one sector and one area that actually experienced one expansion in real life and in practice, without it being regulated in an adequate way, legally and with regulations here in our country. On the other hand, that this area of private security has indeed experienced expansion, but in an adequate way it is arranged in a wider environment, in other countries around us, and in the EU, of course. Of course this should be taken into account, because this area of private security is actually part of our country's security system and it is, together with what is the public security sector, that is, the state, as you would call it, a unique system. These are not things to play with, and that involves really detailed regulation of all segments of this very complex area, because there cannot and must not be any improvisation, taking into account the complexity and weight of this area and these affairs being done. There is indeed a great deal to be done through the sublegal act, and some of it has already been done in a good way. It is a system of vocational education and training, the adoption of training programmes and training norms. The uniforms of private security personnel should be prescribed, the means of use of coercion, the way in which technical protection, the appearance and content of the legitimateisation of private security officers, the criteria for the provision of mandatory security facilities, as well as the minimum technical conditions for the mandatory installation of a technical protection system in certain facilities such as banks, financial institutions, etc. Most of this is still over, but it should leave a decent deadline for those who will deal with these affairs tomorrow to comply with the law and with all those regulations that are given here in sublaws. I would also refer to this politicisation of this issue and it is no big deal if the opposition criticises the current government and the current coalition, it is also her job, etc., but in doing so, or at least should, say, remain dignified and do so in an argumentable, polite and correct way. Otherwise, we only have some statements and findings that serve day-to-day policy and that really have no political weight at all. I would say, to the conclusion that you should ask your coalition partner, I'm about to quote, which means former former Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, why this law was not passed before, when there was a draft law on private security, at a time when the SPS was in a coalition with the DS in power. I don't believe that we of the SPS were able to oppose then the political power and the political will of the DS, on any matter. And if it had been for that political will, then surely this law would have been on the agenda even then, and it would have been brought. This political will was created only later, when we from the SPS entered the coalition with the SNS and that is why the law was passed at the end of 2013, and today we are actually going to be able to make this law right, to supplement and amend it. I would agree with fellow MP Kovacevic of the PUPS that we might be able to put this law back on the agenda by next year. Besides, that's the rule. The law isn't passed once and for all. He must endure and experience a certain check in practice, to detect shortcomings, and then to change and supplement the things of the document, in order to be fully applicable in an objective and realistic way in life and in practice. Of course, here this law also provides for a question of how to charge fees for the issue of the ID of officials, since the Budgetary System Act provides and prescribes that it can only be done by law and not by regulation. Here, through the amendments and additions of this law, and that question is properly solved, and through the sublegal act, it will be determined what is the height that will be for this tax. It must, of course, be respected that, given that it is a new law, a new area which is very, very complex, it involves a different organisation of the MUP with its respective services, with its respective commissions, etc. which should meet all the requirements prescribed by this law and, of course, it takes time. So it's easy to give some flat-rates, it's easy to criticise, but it's much harder to stick to work, to face real difficulties, to deal with the weight of the task, and to deal with it. I think actually this coalition of SNS and SPS is actually doing this job, and for that reason, our parliamentary group will vote for this law. When it comes to the proposal for a bill to confirm an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual recognition of driving licences, of course, we can conclude that this act actually improves police co-operation, that this is an agreement concluded by our country and other countries in the environment and most importantly, it is important that, through the adoption of this law and through the confirmation of this agreement, we, on our part, indicate that we have agreed to cooperate with the Republic of Albania, no matter how much animosity or some distance or reluctance in what is co-operation with the Republic of Albania on our part, or on their part, when it comes to their co-operation with us. By adopting this agreement and some others, we are in fact relaxing these relations and trying, of course, to get close to what is the future of life in both the Balkans and Europe, the European Union, that we must work together on all issues and that we can solve all the issues through political dialogue and through communication, and that is, one of the beginnings and on this plan. Finally, I would like to conclude that both laws will be supported, as the SPS, or as a parliamentary group. We fully support what the presentations were and Mr. Minister on this plan, and we will always be on that course to improve all the laws that, of course, require certain changes and additions over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27327	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. You gave up. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic, and let the MP Alexander Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27328	Thank you. I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality, Svrljig, in Serbia, and I represent the United Peasant Party of the SNS in the Assembly. I want to talk today about the draft law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act. But before I begin to tell you about this law, I would remind all our MPs that today is the great Christian holiday of Djurdjevdan and that we all have to forgive today, to be in the spirit of tolerance, because indeed a great number of our people in Serbia are celebrating. This private security law was passed in 2013, at the end of the year, and for the first time it was placed in a legal framework the possibility that people dealing with the private security of companies doing so can also have obligations and rights in a formal and legal sense, and also in a way that it should be done in order to protect all citizens in Serbia. For the first time, special training has been provided for members of private security, so that persons who want to do this job are trained in specialist training centres, centres that are normally given by the Ministry of the Interior to agree. The training for members of private security may be carried out by persons who meet specific criteria, have working experience, have certain qualifications, that is, all within the framework of the rules adopted by the Ministry of Interior, or the competent services of the Ministry. A private security officer who successfully completes his training and passes a professional exam in order to carry out the job must pass the security check carried out by the MUP. This was not done at all by 2013 and the members of these private security guards were working in these services, a lot of those people who had some bad past, not to say criminal past. After this law, it changes, everything checks out. People who work in these private security guards now have the obligation to do a psychophysical test on whether they're healthy, real, whether they can do security checks and that man is ready to come out at any time tomorrow and work for what he's got a job, and on the other hand, and the conditions that companies do those private security, the conditions are very different and now they know how many people work and how it works. The law on private security for the first time regulates the powers of members of private security. Thus, a private security guard must wear an appropriate uniform whose appearance and markings are prescribed by the Ministry of the Interior by a special regulation. He can wear official weapons, handcuffs and use official dogs in a security facility. These are all things that were not at all until 2013 and were done to say the case to the case. In this way, the Law that was passed in 2013 has brought order to the private security services, but now this law that we are supplementing our Law to make all of this easier for the period of 1 January 2016, will have the opportunity to have the service and police and the Ministry of the Interior prepare all these regulations, because we all know the situation in which our Serbia is, I can also say that I am a son, my father was a police officer and a special accent put on police officers, on people who work in uniform, that these are people who are really working for us, for our Serbia and they have worked and will work even better than before. With this law passed in 2014 and which we now do not sort of complement to put it into operation with complete things by the end of 2015 until the beginning of 2016. They will be able to work in nightclubs, bookshops, games, people who work in these services in private security services, and to live from their work. What's most important about this law and what Mr. PUPS said just before, and General Moma was talking about that most people who have now passed all these psychophysical checks, who have passed security checks, all those people who work in these security companies have a chance tomorrow if we get into a situation, we were in early May last year, when we had an emergency situation, when there were big floods, when there were big fires. I come from the Srlig municipality where we've had a large number of such situations. These people can help tomorrow, normally with suggestions, with the supervision of the MUP and the people who are designated to do so. I think it's a big deal that this way with this law and finally with all those rules that need to be passed, we're gonna sort it out. I think it will contribute to the security of all our citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Also, what else did I want to say about all these people who are working, who are going to work, who can do their work and live, and not to be, as we just heard from our chairman of the Security Committee, a colleague of Maria, that these people were receiving a very small fee, which was in the previous period when we didn't have a private security law. What else does it matter? I just said that all these things that these people provide, these are games, companies and other things that are in Belgrade, I just said, bookies, rafts. We don't have that in small municipalities. I hope, and as a representative of the United Peasant Party, I will also advocate with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, we will argue that in small municipalities, as I am coming, that there is a chance that people can earn more money and that in our villages our people can live better than their work and that in such villages, as in my village where I am from or some villages from Baja Basta, that people there are processing their property, that they have tomorrow the opportunity to provide a company that will work and preserve their property. These were sometimes people who were paid for by local communities in our small communities. Now we already have a law that will sort of help. What else did I want to say as a man and as a real Serb host? I'd like to go back to what nature has given us. A wedding of flowers, of plants, of a crown that is shared today by our families to be born and noble in the coming period, for our people to be alive and healthy, and we all know that St. Georgia, a saint who has managed to win badly and to conquer what is evil. I, as a folk MP in front of the United Peasants' Party, am sure that our government, led by our prime minister, will have the opportunity and strength to defeat everything that is bad, and precisely because of the future of our children and children. Finally, I would take the opportunity, and I don't think you will blame me as chairman, nor fellow MPs, nor citizens of Serbia, and I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate all citizens who are celebrating Djurdevdan today, and to congratulate everyone and to wish that the year should be born and noble both in the field and at home. Once again, as an MP for the United Peasants' Party, I will vote in favour of all the bills submitted by the Government, because I am sure we will have the opportunity to provide a better future for our family, for our villages and for our citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27329	Nine minutes used by the MP's group. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic, and let the MP Aleksandra Djurovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27330	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief in my presentation, and I will stick strictly to what is the agenda point, unlike some MPs, by the mahma of the former regime's parties who, by the way, are not in the O.R., as far as I can tell. So today, two important draft laws are on the agenda, a draft law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act, as well as a proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual recognition of driving licences. It is good that we have this debate today and it is good that today we have a debate on these proposals because they are very good at editing this area and contributing to further improving this sensitive but significant area. When I say sensitive areas, I primarily think of the private security sector as well as the fact that in the past, as highlighted by the speech of our colleagues this sphere was not fully regulated in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, because only at the end of 2013 was the Law that fully regulates this area after almost two decades. The importance of this sector is also reflected in the fact that, according to all relevant estimates in this sector, the private security sector works between 25,000 and 60,000 people in Serbia with a tendency to continue to grow. All these facts point to the need to approach, in an extremely careful and responsible manner, all issues related to the regulation of this area that I repeat, for many years have been absolutely neglected and unregulated, and as you yourself, Mr. Minister, pointed out on several occasions today. Today we hear some MPs criticising these proposals. The same MPs who had all the time in this world to adopt what they're proposing today. Who were 13 years old to apply all the smart solutions they're proposing today. To show us how smart and capable they are, but they never showed it to us. That's when they didn't think of it. They weren't interested at the time. I'm asking, who was stopping them? What was stopping them? What's the matter with them? These are the questions I'm afraid we won't get answers to today. Yes, we passed this law in 2013. We started solving that problem. We're starting to bring order into this area. Finally, we legally regulate this matter and today we bring amendments and additions to this law in the part in which it is necessary to enable full implementation of the law. There was also a word of responsibility on several occasions from the same MPs. Here, I join the question of responsibility. Come on, let's see where is the responsibility of these MPs not to deal with this subject and this matter in any way for years. To ignore all open issues from the private security sector for years. Where's the responsibility? What is the view of this responsibility? These are the questions we need to get an answer to today. This law best regulates security and protection of facilities, businesses and the work of legal and natural persons in the area of private security, the conditions for their licensing, the way in which they work, as well as the supervision of their work. For all these reasons, I want to point out that I will support these legislative proposals and that I will vote in favour of them in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27331	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Djurovic, and let MP Zoran Zivkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27332	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Private Security Act, which regulates the private security sector, as an integral part of the national security system, was adopted at the end of 2013. Although colleagues and colleagues have repeated this many times, I would like to point out that there has been as much as 20 years of discontinuity in this area. Since 1993, when the Social Security Act was in force, the area has not been regulated legally and Serbia has been the country, the only country in the region that has not had a regulated area of private security. The private security law provides for four groups of jobs: security of persons, property and business with physical protection; money transport, valuables and other shipments; maintenance of order at public meetings, sports events and other places of gathering of citizens and areas of technical protection. According to estimates, Serbia's private security sector employs between 25,000 and 60,000 people, who have as many as 47,000 weapons. When we consider that, unless there is an adequate legal framework that will keep this area under control, it can even be a threat to the security of our citizens. The data also show that Serbia's private security sector is experiencing continued growth. The private security law, adopted in the 2013 Assembly, envisioned that sublaws should be prescribed within six months, as well as private security personnel must agree to their work within 18 months. Sublaws were mostly passed. It is quite logical that the six-month deadline was too short to address all the issues that were unregulated in this sector. Now that all sublegal acts have been passed or are in the final stage of production, this creates conditions for private security workers to adapt their work to the legal framework. It has been estimated that it is quite sufficient by the end of the year to bring this work into line, but we were able to see from the minister's announcement that an amendment is to be adopted which provides for the deadline to be extended by April, giving sufficient opportunity to all private security personnel to agree their work with the legal framework in Serbia. The paper is also an addition to the law that prescribes that the ICJ issues the IDs of private security officers and it is perfectly normal to provide for a tax that would cover the cost of making, issuing those IDs. I think it's very important that there is control by the state who it is that deals with private security, who has a license for it, because the question is, what is the structure of the people who do these jobs? I have to say, the education structure of people has proved to be very bad. There are people with elementary school, with two or three classes of high school. Most often they're hired as temporary and occasional jobs. They're people who couldn't find an adequate job in their profession or lost their jobs at some point, so they find a way to do some work that they might be able to do before they retire. We see that they belong to lower social layers. On the other hand, they are assigned to do very important things, to protect the most valuable things, and these are the lives of citizens and property. I think you should think about prescribing a minimum labour price, given that we have statistics that show that the salaries of people who deal with this job are the lowest. They range from 1.5 euros per hour of work per person. Compared to other European countries, where the price is 8.9 euros per hour, we see that these are really small incomes and I think it is clear that the economic situation in the country is very difficult and it would be good to prescribe minimum labour prices for this sector, because most often at their expense are rich employers, owners of these agencies, who avoid paying contributions and taxes to the state. The aim of this law is to ensure a higher level of control by the competent state authorities, the business of the agencies involved in private security. The aim is to professionalise and legalise this service activity, which most often, unfortunately, largely, operates in the gray area of business, does not reconcile its obligations to the state in terms of taxes and contributions, so that employees working in the sector usually work on black, without contracts, without taxes and contributions paid. The addition of Article 4 is also proposed. A law that defines mandatory security facilities. The existing formulation sets a very broad definition of necessarily provided facilities and no exceptions are made to defence facilities, as well as those that are relevant to national security provided by the police, and these amendments to the laws are more precisely defined and precise. I think it's a very important step already taken when this law was passed in 2013. Of course, practice shows that it should be complemented and completed, and it is we MPs in this congregation who have this task that everything that is shown in practice should be completed, so that it can be properly implemented. We're here to declare it. I will gladly support the amendments and additions of this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27333	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27334	Thank you very much. First, to congratulate Mrs Gordani Comic on the opportunity to hold a parliamentary session after a year of office and I think it is a great day in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism. As far as this law is concerned, it is a logical continuation of many other laws that have come before this assembly of parliament in the last year. What's going on? It happens that in the application of the law, deadlines for the adoption of certain acts for some processes were too short. I'm sure it wasn't a proposal from the Ministry's experts, but it was political pressure to do it as soon as possible. Of course, that's impossible. How seriously was that done? In an impact analysis, Serbia's private security sector estimates employ between 25,000 and 60,000 people. Such a precise assessment is truly fascinating. It's like saying -- maybe it is, and maybe it isn't, maybe it's going to rain, and maybe it won't. You know exactly the number of guns 47,000. Therefore, at least on this basis there was to be precise data on how many people work in this sector. It would also be perfectly logical for some rules to be respected in this country, not only in the last government, but also before, that through some serious service, we know how many people are employed in these private security matters. But you don't know the number of employees around here. It is, as we have seen in recent weeks, the most protected state secret and no one can say what the total number of employees in Serbia are. Of course, it has a lot to do with what's on the agenda today, because here is the question – how many people are covered by this job, what should they do to do this job enough, whether they are enough private security force for the jobs that are intended for them or not, who is controlling them, etc., etc.? If it had been seriously done then it would not have looked like an assessment of how much it would have been invested in "Belgrade on Water", or when a chip factory would be opened, or aircraft parts, and when the beautiful, young, assassin of a businessman from Dedinj will be caught. But my questions related to this law is how much control of Serbia's MUP has carried out in the last year when this law applies? The control of the work of private security, is it done, how much control has been done, where have these controls been done in what parts of Serbia and what are the effects of these controls, because it is foreseen by this law? How many applications were filed by the MUP for infringements under Article 72 of this Act, where penalties for work without contract, work without license, work contrary to the Law, work which is unprofessional, work which is inefficient and so on. How many gun licenses were distributed to companies under this law because Article 24 says the company cannot own firearms in the number of more than one half of its employees. If it's 47,000, based on an analysis of the effects of registered weapons, then it's logical that it's possible that out of all 100,000 people work in this sector, not 25 thousand. If there are 25,000, such as the beginning of an estimate of the number of people working in this sector, then they are illegally longer by two weapons than two employed by one weapon. These are issues that are very much related to this bill, which are directly related, and I am sure, if I am not a member of the government, who is present here, then people who sit with him can give him that information, and it is certain that the Serbian public has both the rights and the interest to hear that information. So how much control has been carried out, where and what the results are. Whether applications under Article 72 have been filed and how many weapons are recorded under Article 24 of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27335	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27336	As regards control only the Ministry did not exercise control, since the Law provided for a period of adjustment, just in fact until the entry into force of these provisions, it is not possible to begin the control process. As far as weapons are concerned, no weapon has been issued in accordance with this Act. So this law did not allow the release of new weapons. One piece of the weapon has been returned. I don't know exactly how much now, but I'm going to deliver to you how many weapons were taken over by companies that didn't have the basis to keep it, and only after the full application of the Law will the issue of weapons be started under this Act, in that sense. But I'll deliver it to you, I don't have the exact number of pieces now, we'll deliver it, hopefully within the shortest time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27337	On what basis, Mr. Zivkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27338	Just one more question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27339	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27340	Whether or not it's competent and without the application of this law to control the work of those agencies. So it's impossible that nobody's in charge. If no one's in control, it's a very dangerous fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27341	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27342	It depends, of course, what is the field of work for which we are inspecting, if it is work, if it is an inspection of work, inspection of protection at work, sanitary inspection, therefore, different types of inspections. As far as the work is concerned, we will, after the entry into force of these provisions, control that part of the work that is in our jurisdiction. That's where I agree. We'll have more rigorous control. That was also said by MP Momir Stojanovic today. And he's right, if that happens, so we have to control whether or not the provisions of that law are strictly applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27343	The People's Messenger, Marijan Risticevic, has the word, and let the MP Vladimir Pavicevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also want to congratulate all those who celebrate Djurjevdan, to wish them and their guests all the best, above all a lot of health. I also want to tell them and us that we should remember those famous songs "Djurdjevdan" that were sung in 1942 by 3,000 young Serbs who were taken by train to Jasenovac. In such difficult circumstances when they had nothing, when they were sure they were going to die, they sang one of the most beautiful songs "Djurđevdan" that is now sung in dozens of languages around the world. It is our sacred obligation to remember these victims too, given I am not Colinda, but since the heavy accusations and the heavy stories come from our neighbouring country, we are obliged to remember these victims and remember this Djurđevdan, which many Serbs celebrate today. They should celebrate, but we should also remember how it was celebrated by Serbs who were sure that out of them 3,000 almost no one would return, and in these circumstances they had the strength to celebrate Djurdjevdan with one song, which is why in cattle wagons, the cymbers were closed, and out of them 3,000 of them, only 2,000 came alive to Jasenovac, and few only survived and left us a witness to one of the most beautiful songs. As far as these two laws are concerned, I support the special mutual recognition of driving licenses with Albania, and I will commend the one who wrote the agreement. Therefore, we have come in a position for Albania to recognise the driving licences issued by the Republic of Serbia and for the territory of KIM because this agreement applies to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, that is to say, all driving licences issued by the Serbian authorities. Therefore, this agreement, i.e. the law confirming this agreement, requires all praise. It's a wonder the former regime's members didn't think of that before. As far as private security is concerned, that's where the problems are inherited. There was no law, no arrangements. Of course, some first law requires necessary and changes over time. That neither this Government nor this Assembly, I am counting on both the government and the opposition, could have done in the first place the basic law and amendments in a perfect way or to predict certain things and the possibility of the sublaw being passed within a certain period of time. I was particularly interested in training, and I think it is necessary and that these agencies and companies that deal with the security of objects and people, especially sports facilities, that we need to be extremely perfect here. What we're looking at in some big games, big under question, just by the number of viewers, is more like a battlefield than a serious sports event, and we're talking about no matter what authority, who the opposition, this inherited problem, we need to pay special attention to. As far as I can see, pyrotechnics and gunpowder are spent on one derby than in both Serbian uprisings. I think that's why a very necessary dress is necessary, and that training should be like training for special units, because these people who provide sports resorts, sports events should be extremely bold, brave, but also well-trained, since I also attended Serbia-Albania's games, when some security guards did not give me security. He thinks some of them and the marker who wrote security were too heavy. This training must be fundamental, especially for people who will be involved in the security of sports events. Also, I would like to commend this member in which the changes are required to provide facilities. With that in mind, I am asking the Minister of Police as a National MP to have a special, mandatory security facility, I don't know from whom, which is called the hotel in Andrevlje, to examine that he was by whose authority required a secure facility and which security provided that facility recently when this resulted in Mr. Cacic's beating up the vice-president of Beocin Municipality, the deputy, just because he decided to eat he had been beaten. So, for him, there's a reasonable suspicion that he was doing security in a way that beat up a man who came to lunch and I'm interested in whether he went through some kind of training? Was he as a physical person licensed for that kind of work? Did he have any ID and did he show? With that in mind, we insist, those of us who live in Srem, we who live in India, insist that this case be investigated until the end, which was before, which even Mr. Vladimir Jesic's folder was secured while the former regime's party in the entire territory was ruled because only because of the injury of reputation and honor was protected by the folder, which was evaluated and which suffered damage to the court's verdict during the rule of the party's former regime of a million-and-a-half dinar, which was four times the value of the one paid for being killed at KIM... If, during the rule of the former regime, one folder could be provided, to such an amount, I ask for a justifiable reason that the case at Andrevlja should be investigated to the end and for no reason could be avoided by anyone who took part in this merciless event, before I think Mr. Cacic's head is worth more than one folder, and this case must be prosecuted to the end since the same gentleman found it appropriate to accuse some other people of violence without any violence against him. This caused a very big public disturbance, caused very great political damage even to the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, and regardless of what the gentleman did rejected the polygraph, I claim that the internal affairs and the prosecution authorities must, or I demand, banish the matter to the end, to know exactly what happened in that facility, whether it was necessarily a secure facility, from whom, whether the persons who provided it, including the said one, had the appropriate license, whether they were hired by the agency or by the company involved in the security of the facilities. I will, of course, support these amendments and additions to the law. I'm very moved because some former interior ministers are asking if there have been certain controls with private security companies. I can rightly join my fellow winemaker that this control of these agencies and these companies must be done in an adequate way, that it must be as often as possible, that there must be no cases of what happened in Andrevlje, but I find it a little touching when the former interior minister says so. So I'm going to ask the Minister of the Interior -- what kind of control was done at BIA official services, say the Federal Police, the Federal Ministry, the Republic Ministry of the Interior, from 2000 to 2004, when it was allowed for the vice president of one party and future Deputy Prime Minister to visit the Zemuna clan, to visit a single street, I think it's called Schillerov in Zemun, and that it was later found that those persons were involved in the murder of a prime minister whose place was later the federal interior minister? So I'm interested -- was it during that period that control was carried out, not by these private security agencies, but by who controlled the security authorities that were official and who were supposed to be under control so that people with whom the former vice president of the former regime hung out would kill the prime minister? So there's no excuse, there's no way someone can get in a pool with murderers, and later on, he stays completely unpunished, and he's adventing the vice president of the government. When you're already asking a variety of questions about private security agencies, I'm right to ask that question, of course. Since the interior minister came to the minister much later, I believe he knows some of the facts about it. I can take all the objections, but they're very unfounded. I think the poverty we have touched, for which the party of the former regime is responsible, which still holds power in more than a quarter of the territory of Vojvodina, in order to make it easier for our people to endure poverty and misery, in which they pushed it rather than pride, indifference, and indifference of members of the party of the former regime, who shared good and evil with the people by taking good and leaving evil for the people. At the time, I even suggested, while they ruled to change the anthem, not to be “the God of justice, ” but to“ God preserve. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27345	The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Alexander Jovicic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister Stefanovic and the Honorable Guests of the MUP, prepared four notes, two previous and two regular on this Bill proposal and one question to Minister Stefanovic at the very end. First of all, Minister Stefanovic, you were a National MP, and you were president of the National Assembly. I don't think it's appropriate for a minister to read the word in the National Assembly, not even in the opening statement. For example, Mr. Martinovic can confirm this here, we had a 1922 Rules of Procedure where in one article 43. The Rules of Procedure have been written – it is forbidden in the Assembly to read the words, and I have also said to Mrs Vulina and Loncar, and they have changed their approach, and I expect that you, too, when coming to the National Assembly, do not read the words, but to read, gentlemen, before the session, and at the session, to discuss what the subject is. _Other Organiser
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27347	Mr. Pavicevic, this isn't your university, so you're asking for a grade.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27348	I'm talking about today's subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27349	And the Minister's statement certainly can't be called a word or you can tell me the definition of a word, because you like to wear a dictionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27350	That was the word, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Stefanovic, did you have a word? Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27351	The word can also be read and spoken.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27352	I said - it is not appropriate to read in the congregation. Minister Stefanovic can say he does not agree, Mr Arsic. Let Minister Stefanovic speak for himself and his opinion. Don't pass the Rules of Procedure now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27353	I don't comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27354	And you're wasting my time again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27355	I'm not wasting your time. Just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27356	I've only got five minutes, and now it's being denied. Second note, Minister Stefanovic, many, I think, spoke of the past today. For example, I think it is always for one minister to come to the National Assembly that opportunity to give one assessment of the situation, therefore, of the present and the indication of what is planned for Mr Stefanovic to talk about the future, and others can talk about both the past and what, but you, I think, when you come to the Assembly, first of all, what is the situation and what is being prepared, what is predicted and planned as some future. These are previous remarks, Mr Arsic and Mr Stefanovic. I'm going to the first regular now. I think we had a general agreement here today, gentlemen, that the reason for today's debate on this bill is the trombone of the adoption of sublegal regulation and follow-up deadlines for the application of the law. All the MPs and ministers said – yes, what was planned to be done was not done. I believe there's no dilemma about it. It's a deadline. The deadline is not respected and what the team is now doing and there is a difference, gentlemen. The SNS gentlemen, for example, I have recorded here, Stojanović, Toskovic, Markovic, they say – well, here's Jovicic will speak, he says – he's given a deadline, he's not respected, and we, gentlemen, so I understand Mr Đurisic and Mr Zivkovic, we say – well, he can't do anything, if he's given a deadline, if that deadline is not respected and it's really important, I think we also agree that responsibility, respected gentlemen, is an important category in politics. The responsibility is to fulfil the duty of the second on the basis of the trust indicated, and what would be appropriate, Mr Stefanovic? I think it would be appropriate for you in your opening statement, although Mr. Arsic does not like this term because of something – the word that you in the first sentence told all of us MPs – we were wrong. We did not observe the deadlines, and then we MPs saw what to do with it, shall we say, "Come on, here's another chance to give or to say." I think it was an appropriate approach to the recorded problem by all the MPs here. That brings me to another note, Mr. Stefanovic. When we mention responsibility, the important principle is the ethics of responsibility and, above all, to hear and the MPs of the SNS, politics, respected gentlemen, is measured by the numbers and the number of votes in the elections, but not only, respected gentlemen, politics is measured and the results are measured and if there are no results somewhere, then we must measure that policy based on it. It's the ethics of responsibility. One question to Minister Stefanovic, so you can tell us here. You were an MP, President of the National Assembly, if we were to imagine that you are today a National MP, please answer, first of all, for the Members of the SNS - would you vote in this Assembly for the adoption of the principles of academic integrity, yes or no? That's all I'm interested in today as one question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27357	There you go, Mr. Pavicevic. I didn't take your time. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27358	For the truth's sake, I have to say that our deadline hasn't expired yet, he expires in June. So we could do this a few regulations that exist, maybe even if we could get to the end of the deadline, but would we be able to apply it, would the companies be ready, would that be arranged in a quality way, that's the question now. To fulfill something written as a letter on paper, just to fulfill it, I will be against such a policy. I'm going to be a politician who's going to get some results, and until now, the MUP has produced serious results in its work, and we're going to keep doing even better and more serious results. We don't want anything that casts a shadow on these people's work that's really working really hard. If we are strictly legally speaking, we will see whether the Assembly will determine whether the deadline will be extended or not, not extended by the ministry, but by the MPs, as far as we are concerned if the Assembly rejects it, we may have a deadline in June that we will have to meet. If the Assembly extends it, then everything has been done to the legion of artis, we, on the basis of the approval of the National Assembly as the highest legislative body in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, must act in such a way as to apply the new deadlines and in the best possible way, respected Mr Pavicevic, do the work for which the Assembly has tasked us. As for the answer to the question, I'm not addressed in detail to the matter you're talking about, but I can tell you that I am specifically referred to a matter of criminal and legal integrity, and I wish that we could also talk about this matter, because all those nice people who destroyed and robbed this country, and they didn't answer for it, would be much better if they did, if they were more concerned about it, it would be better for the Republic of Serbia and for all its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27359	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandar Jovicic has the word, and let the MP Milan Petrovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27360	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard today about a technical law, a law that will allow us to establish a system in this area, the accusations of many who have done nothing in the past to reach some solutions. Mr. Stefanovic did not adopt this law, he was adopted in 2013, and Mr. Stefanovic became Minister in 2014 and acted immediately to make certain changes in order to systemically resolve for private security to be in the system, to know who controls, who does what, and to train those people in order to have better work on the ground, and to make it easier to control it. Absurd exists from those, from where the criticisms come from. You know, Mr. Chairman, there's a party with two members in Serbia, I don't know what it's called, but one member from that party calls for responsibility in one technical law that will bring some innovations to establish as much control as possible, and that in that domain we operate, calls for responsibility, and never calls for responsibility or ever asks for another member of the same party who, while he was a minister in the federal government of internal affairs, was killed by the president of his party, or the prime minister of Serbia, then you come to the situation to say – who you deceive, who you deceive and talk about words, you bring out some completely unargumented facts here, you don't essentially deal with problems? In no single sentence in the past year and a half from both members, and especially from this last one who spoke, we have not heard – the citizens of Serbia or the people of Serbia and what they would do for them and what they represent in this assembly. That doesn't surprise me, because you don't care about the people. You care about entering this congregation through those who have destroyed our country and that you can deal with whether someone has read something from the paper or has not read it. If you're already saying everything in your head, since you're such a gifted and brilliant rhetoricist, then why don't you tell the citizens of Serbia, and I'll remind them, what's only in a year, in the last year's work at the MUP. You should have known, if you know you speak well, you certainly know how to read it, so you could read it in the papers, and you could read the report of the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Defense. 20% more narcotics have been seized, which is really important for young generations living in our country, the number of serious murders is down 40%, you haven't tried to say at any time, 16% is more revealing corruption and corruption is no longer flourishing in Serbia than it was during the second or first term, let's say first, since the president of that party of two members, who was booming at the time, is not only corruption but also crime. When we talk about the rate of crime, in Serbia it was reduced by 10%, in the AP Vojvodina it was reduced by 9%, and in Novi Sad by 14%, you should have said that. If you know how to talk so well, you certainly know how to read well. The percentage of all cases has been increased, and when we talk about drug confiscation and serious murder, and most importantly, the perpetrators of these difficult cases have been found that have been first and foremost hit by minors in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's why, Minister, thank you, and it's an honor, because it's really important. When we talk about narcotics, billions of dinars have been seized in our country. While the mafia and corruption flourished, the overall crime in our country during those coming out of the O.R. when crime is mentioned, because in some ways, at least indirectly, they are found, there is no more in Serbia today. I am full of heart that as a folk MP in the Serbian Parliament, who talks for example. and with the citizens of Karaburma, which is in the territory of Palilula, and who say – we need a police station here in order to lie down for decades that has turned into something that is bad for our young world and our generations, it is a lot of my heart to know that Minister Stefanovic has already formed a certain team in such parts of both Belgrade and Serbia to establish a facility, that we can control who is poisoning our children, who is leading them astray, who is denying them the chance to live normally and become really a healthy nation. Thank you for fighting to establish that. Those who, in every way possible, have tried to bring about one hopelessness, complete anarchy, crime, corruption, when it comes to these issues, then find it appropriate to get out of the O.R. We do not surrender and support the amendments and additions of this law, but this law is not essential to everything you've done in the previous period. I am convinced that with the support of both the SNS and the MPs of the SNS, as well as the MPs of the coalition, you will do really good results, and then I don't think the opposite party, which is in opposition, but we should call them the real name, and these are the MPs of the former regimes who did everything against what they said, in fact they didn't meet anything they promised, that we wouldn't stop with these results and that we're going to watch that we're always going one step further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27361	Because of the identification that it belongs to a political party that has only two members, Pavicevic has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Arsic, Minister Stefanovic, and guests and guests from the MUP, I do not understand what is the problem for Mr. Jovičić and the other SNS gentlemen when words are mentioned, gentlemen. It's enough to read in the dictionary what the word is, to explain it if there are people's MPs here who are unclear, so they think it might be something offensive, etc. The word is good and good, gentlemen. Here, in the dictionary - the word is a speech in front of a larger set of people on solemn and other occasions. Maintain your word, gentlemen, give a speech. Every time I get a word in here, I say, gentlemen. I'm preparing and giving my speech. I suppose that is what is expected of the MPs in our National Assembly. Next, gentlemen, it is said here - a party with two members. It was meant for the New Party. I am the deputy president of the New Party and the People's MP of the New Party at the National Assembly. The new party has signed four draft laws in the last year, gentlemen. We have submitted 1200 amendments, of which 60 are adopted, which is 5%, gentlemen. Mr. Arsic, 5% of the election is much more than two people, I think. To do some of that kind of calculations. Or, here we have prepared and directed the procedure and resolution on the recognition and condemnation of genocide committed against the Armenians 100 years ago, which we thought should be adopted in our National Assembly on the centenary of the beginning of genocide. Dear gentlemen, let me tell Mr. Jovičić, I am the most active MP in the last year in this assembly, the most valuable and diligent. I have 603 speeches, two more than the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Babic. Well, that deserves a card, gentlemen, not objections and objections. Give it up, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27363	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. No one's arguing with you how many amendments you've made. You are on a good path to reach me by the number of amendments in a decade, but on condition that it does not read in the amendments, it is "expunged". The People's MP, Alexander Jovicic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27364	Thank you, Your Honor. Just by provoking the replica, and I didn't say which party I mean, I think one member of that party, which has two members, has just admitted to having two members. But so much for which party we're talking about. On the other hand, when you talk about the word, we don't mind that word. It's an extremely beautiful word that can paint rhetoric, vocabulary, etc. I think that you should keep your word first of all to the first member of your party, not to act arrogantly, not to call people cattle, not to call people offensive expressions, because it is not in the spirit of parliamentaryism, which you stand for as the MP who has the most talk, with the view that the number of speeches does not mean what is smart in these speeches. Maybe there should be a third less speech, but when you say something not to be as empty a floscule as we've heard in the last 10 minutes on your side. On the other side of the word. Yes, it is a nice word, but I don't know why you're affected by the words of crime, corruption, killing the prime minister, the same responsibility you never knew you were carrying and fighting it, and that's why it was evaluated as it is, and that's why you had to go to the list of parties that worked, and it was established by the number of votes, and by what you had in the prosecution and certain institutions that they worked against Serbian citizens. It's not for pride at all for your party of two members. But your political experience or the skills you've used, it's an honor you've managed to convince the Democratic Party that you're making a coalition with them. I just want to remind the citizens here. Here, there's an MP who boasts that he's the fastest and that 603 times he's answered for a word or talked, whatever he's been doing. I believe that citizens are much more important today that we have a lower crime rate, which is more drug confiscation today, which is 6% less traffic accidents on our streets, which is in preparation for a police law that will finally establish a system...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27365	Time, colleague Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27366	I agree, I'm done. ... and that will finally introduce career progress, which is really important for the police, and we have seen what some who were police ministers are offering, which is the murder of the prime minister of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27367	Right to replication for mentioning a party of two members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President, Mr Arsic, Minister Stefanovic and respected guests from the Ministry, I agree with Mr Jovicic that the MPs of the New Party have been very convincing in this National Assembly in the past year. Well, we and Minister Stefanovic persuaded him to accept some of our amendments when we discussed the arms and ammunition laws here. Here, Mr. Stefanovic nods his head and confirms, Mr. Jovic. We also convinced Minister Mihajlovic to adopt some of our amendments, as well as Minister Udovic and Minister Vujovic, etc., respected gentlemen. That means in words, gentlemen, we've always used the power of arguments. Mr. Arsic, I have to tell you right now. You said here a little while ago – so just don't delete the amendments. We must sometimes also delete the amendments, Mr. Arsic, when we estimate that some bill is not worth the whole. Look out, Mr. Arsic, we and the governor of the National Bank, who is also the deputy president of the Serbian Progressive Party, in the status of rest, convinced in our debate to accept our two amendments, which, Mr. Arsic, you imagine, read: "is deleted". Well, at least in your party, you can look around and find confirmation that the amendments "be deleted", gentlemen, can also be as meaningful. And, gentlemen, Mr. Zivkovic also spoke here today. He prepared the word, announced his speech, asked two questions here, respected gentlemen, and Minister Stefanovic answered the questions. So, what's the problem? There's no problem. We're here to discuss. We must not bring our congregation into any one-mindedness. The assembly is for discussion, for dialogue and, respected gentlemen of progress, for words, and for good words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27369	Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. Djurisic, Mr. Veseinovic, Mrs. Dragutinovic, Mr. Risticevic, Mr. Babić, Mr. Pavicevic, has the right to the replica, with MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27370	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Stefanovic has the right to speak. The word is a speech in front of a great crowd. Mr. Stefanovic is used to the wording of his Serbian Progressive Party, not with the greatest confidence. Not only with the highest confidence among citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not only with the largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not only by the number of members, but 498,000 are or almost half a million active members of the Serbian Progressive Party and Mr Stefanovic is right and is used to saying the words. However, as Honorable counterpart Jovicic says, between two members and between two men there is no word, it is a conversation, a simple conversation that is held daily, or dialogue. I agree with the 5%, as Mr Pavicevic said earlier. I agree that 5% of the amendments have been adopted and that this can be reflected in trust with citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but 5% of the support for the same list Mr Pavicevic was on. That with such work and advocacy in parliament with 6.09% spectacular, here at 5%, it is possible that, as time goes by, the percentage of amendments adopted and the support of Serbian citizens will be lower. But what is most important, since most of these amendments have been "expunged", is that Serbia's citizens' response to the policy, which is devastating for Serbia, will be lost for Serbian citizens, is deleted, Mr Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27371	The word has the People's MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President, Mr Arsic, the respected Minister Stefanovic, the distinguished guest from the Ministry and guests of the Ministry, Mr Babic, also used a good word earlier -- trust. He says – citizens have shown confidence in the elections. That is why it is very important, dear Mr. Arsic, to listen to the echo of the words that Mr. Marko Djurisic used during our debate today, which is a term of responsibility in politics, respected gentlemen, because terms are the responsibility and trust associated categories. Then the question arises, gentlemen, what happens when you disrespect what is said? When is there a deadline that you don't respect? When does it start to lose the trust of respected gentlemen? When trust is lost, it means that responsibility is lost, and political responsibility, I think, must be recorded in this National Assembly as well. That is why I felt it was appropriate for Minister Stefanovic to say first in his first sentence this morning – we did not respect the deadlines, we were wrong, we suggest an extension. Now, that would suggest a sense of responsibility to Minister Stefanovic and Mr Arsic. The other thing is, only the New Party has tabled 1200 amendments. As a result, gentlemen, it means that today, only the New Party has five percent success per amendment, and if we turn that into some result in the election of only the New Party five percent, but I hope that at this rate we reach respected gentlemen in the next three years and up to 25%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27373	It's a long way, and it takes a long time. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27374	I just have to say, since we just did that part, I wasn't going to answer, but since we just discussed that part, I can't say in the first sentence that the deadlines were over when they really didn't pass. We still have time for those deadlines. So will the National Assembly decide to give us more time depends on the National Assembly. This is not decided by the MUP, but by the majority of MPs who elected citizens in the elections. What you said rightly is one more word, and that's checking when it comes to a trust check. In the life of one government, one parliamentary majority, any majority there are occasional, extraordinary elections at different levels where trust is tested. To see what citizens think of this policy, what they think of the people who run those policies run by certain institutions. We had a recent election in Mionica. In those elections in Mionica, almost 70% of the people who have the right to vote there came out. In those elections, SNS received 60% of the votes. Significantly more than in the elections, the 2014 parliamentary elections. So, citizens' trust in politics represented by Aleksandar Vucic, SNS, our coalition partners are growing. And that trust is clearly recognised by the citizens as the result of one good work of the government, and I hope that after the next cycle. We'll have, I hope, at last once elections in Vojvodina. I sincerely hope, no, I'm not sure whether the election in Vojvodina will ever be anymore, because somehow I don't think there should be any elections here, but I guess there will be some. I guess we'll meet them in our lives sometime. Well, we'll see what the citizens of Vojvodina say, what our results were in 2012 when we had them last, what will be the results today. Did the citizens realize that the government that led them in Vojvodina was great, wonderful, wonderful, fantastic, that they lived wonderfully and excellently in Vojvodina, that everything was built, that everything was great, that they were flourishing and that they were simply busy, that it was simply fantastic to them as well or not so. And we will see, of course, in other Serbia environments in the local elections. We'll see how citizens judge the work of these local self-governments as well as the work of the entire government and all others who are not part of the government is part of the government in Vojvodina. So, since we really can't say we have many parties in the opposition today. Most of them are in some government. Are the authorities in Vojvodina, whether they are in government in the Republic, whether they are in power in some municipalities. We in Belgrade have a very colorful picture in municipal authorities, let's say, the SNS government in fewer municipalities in Belgrade than there are in total, so we rule in eight of the 17 Belgrade municipalities. It's not always very clear who the government is, who the opposition is. Most of them took part in government in some way. In power in the province of the Democratic Party, for example, in power there for 15 years, and that is, to say, a complete fact in which the province's government has been running since 2004. But we're going to have choices and that word of trust and verification I think they're very important. When citizens say in some of the next elections what they think of all of us, the way we run this policy, we'll know if these words we've spoken were right here. Whether those policies we represented were in the citizens' interest and whether they experienced it that way. I am convinced that this policy, led by this government, led by Prime Minister Vukic, will experience the absolute support of the citizens of Serbia, that the election result that we achieve by the next elections will be even more convincing, even more convincing than the one we achieved in 2014 and that it will give us a mandate to continue with reforms, to strengthen work, because what Mr Vucic himself is, and what I think we all believe in in this hall, if we do not, if we do not use that power for reforms, if the power that citizens are not giving us to do something good, then it is wasted time and spent energy. I am convinced that people have seen in these past year that this government has not wasted time or energy, that we have managed to achieve results by drastically reducing the budget deficit. Er Serbia is today a positive company that is paying money into Serbia's budget, not spending 35m euros annually on it. We have received a large number of companies, not to list all of them now, which I have been very happy to list in this Assembly, not to repeat myself, simply which they have hired, and perhaps this is an insufficient number of people, but today less than 17% of people in Serbia are unemployed by all statistics showing 26.8% in August 2012. So, a lot of results. This law that we're talking about today, so hopefully, since I'm not going to answer anymore, that this is my final address, a lot of results are behind us and in the Ministry. This is an area for which I will be grateful to you all who are involved essentially to regulate it in the best possible way and that in the next period of application of the Private Security Act is complete and that we can get the right answers to the right questions. That people who work in that system are protected enough to have enough training and know what they're doing, especially because they're dealing with people who carry firearms, but of course we're watching the application of this law. Of course, I always accept criticism from the National Assembly. It is our job because we are chosen by the National Assembly, I was the President of Parliament, and I know what that means. We accept the words of criticism. I hope that we will also be able to discuss through the committee in charge, as we have repeatedly, and I am grateful to the chairman of the committee and this opportunity, on the occasions that we have talked several times over the previous years and in the building of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also outside of it about important issues affecting matters concerning the MUP. Thank you again to all the MPs who took part in the debate today. I'm really grateful for what we could do today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27375	Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: E, this is the word of counterpart Pavicevic. Mr. Pavicevic, on what basis. Mr Pavicevic, apart from your desire to increase the number of discussions as the MP most discussed in this House, I see no reason to report. You have no right to a replica. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27376	The respected chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues, is very important that the area of private security is finally governed by the 2013 law. This important area certainly shouldn't have left so long aside and out of legal normation with one system law. Since it is the fact that a large number of employees have the right to carry and use weapons, it is also important to edit this area very seriously. But as this often happens in our legal system, unreal short deadlines are left for the implementation and implementation of this law. Then it usually resorts to changes and additions, which is still the case here today. Regarding this bill, the Serbian People's Party believes it is necessary because it is important to implement all obligations under the basic text of the law. We believe that the now set are unrealistically short deadlines. As the deadline is given by January 1st, the law will not be implemented again because 46,000 people need to go through all trainings in about 20 days, for example, where the capacities of the persons holding those trainings are, as I say, limited. We in the SNP believe that it is more appropriate by 1 January 2017 that this is a perfectly consistent time in which this situation can be ended and that a great deal can be done in this situation, so that it can be done so that we do not come into a situation to change those deadlines and change this law in this part. Also, we believe that we should define the highest amount of fees for IDs to some, let's say, 1,500 dinars, since they are employed in private security with very low incomes, which are around the amount of minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia. Taking into account this fact, it is necessary to exclude any possibility of ambiguity in relation to determining the fee for it to be changed or always increased. That is why we believe that without these amendments which have been tabled, the draft law will not be able to be implemented within such a short period of time and that it is necessary to specify the level of the tax, and the government's attitude towards our amendments will depend on our position whether we support this law or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27377	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27378	After these consultations you said, I'm talking to my colleagues from the Ministry. Since this is largely not up to us, I want to say from the Ministry of the Interior, a dynamic that will continue to be reported by interested people, because maybe over the next six months, thousands of interested people report, and then six months after 30,000. So it's really not up to us, nor can we predict what kind of dynamic people... I will consult with my colleagues today whether to be able to say extended even on 1 January 2017, because that is the thing that we will give the economy more time and then we will inform you. Tomorrow we will have a cabinet session and I hope that with the professional services of this legal dilemma we will organise a resolution and then perhaps we will be ready to accept perhaps your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27379	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of the joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27380	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr. Arsic, at the beginning of the debate, I must say that you have become a very funny man and have indeed managed to mate to a funny, comical government today...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27381	You inspire me, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27382	... with all the ministers competing in who will get more wet or who will stand in the sun instead of competing in the results of the work. You've become a serious competition and president of the Republic in your comic scenes...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27383	I'm not the subject, Mr. Veselinovic. I'm you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27384	... yellow people and other similar comic scenes, but I don't think you'll be able to reach their reach and that your place will be desired by Mr. Arsic, because from tomorrow, already after the celebration, Mrs. Gojkovic and others will be there... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27385	Mr. Veselinović, I'd like to ask you to talk about the law that's on the agenda. You spent one minute. I don't know what it's all about. As to whether I'm funny or not, it's not about the government, but you're inspiring me with your discussions. Just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27386	I just couldn't help but notice. On the other hand, our position in this respect is clear that we will not support a law that speaks of an inefficient government, an inefficient ministry, which, as many times so far, has been extended by deadlines, which means that the ministries have not been adequately dealt with, which means that the sublegal acts have not been prepared in time, that it has not been sufficiently done. You know what, gentlemen, the government's responsible work would mean that you sublegal acts already have in some draft when you pass the law. It is true that sublegal acts only after the final text of the law can get their final form. However, the serious government, a serious ministry, which is serious about issues it wants to resolve, requires serious work. Unfortunately, more has been said here about all the topics, except the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Private Security Act or the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Licenses with the Republic of Albania, which requires several comments. We just received statistics, of course, without real and essential analysis of Serbia's state being safer. Ask citizens in the streets of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, from north to south, do they feel safer? People don't report any easier crimes anymore. People, my fellow citizens in Vojvodina, but there is no better situation in southern Serbia, they store hams, they store corn, they store wheat, they store chickens and chickens. The owners of private stores, Mr Stefanovic, cannot keep goods in their facilities unless they have paid private security, and since they pay private security, they have nothing left to earn, so they close the stores. In Vojvodina, the situation is likely to be similar in Belgrade, only casinos are opening up. The small, small crafts are closing, and the casinos are opening. They have a good profit so they can pay for security. Unfortunately, no better situation is in other areas. We witnessed the scene at the Red Star and Partizan football game. I also asked a parliamentary question – what will the Government do, what will the Ministry of the Interior do not solve this private security, that this does not turn into a war of some private security?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27387	Time, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27388	I'm done. So, for your question, Mr. Minister, are you able, ready, or have you given up on dealing with a serious mob that exists in sports clubs or will all end up on pensioners and educators who you had the courage to cut wages.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27389	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27390	To the truth, wages were cut by the government that led to a huge debt by irresponsible politics, a huge budget deficit that was two and a half billion euros a year. Of course, after such a policy, what to expect, rather than people being brought into a terrible situation, into enormous debt. In this situation when the only capital that came in was the capitalisation of banks, construction by Saric and so on. Security was at the top level then. You had all those criminals nobody should have mentioned in the assembly. No one should have mentioned them by the authorities who did the job. No one was allowed to say, to whisper their names. In their sleep, when they dreamed of their names, they were moving from sleep, waking up, just so they wouldn't dream of them anymore. At the time, the security of the citizens was wonderful when the drug cartels ruled Serbia. I guess the citizens were the happiest at the time, and they were the best when they had five kilos of drugs each year, total. It was a wonderful time, just fantastic for safety. There's one interesting thing said here. He says -- the real government when proposing a law should already prepare and have sublaws... (Janko Veselinović, from town: Draft. )......................................................................................................... drafts, and then we hear from the same government that this law was in the procedure in 2011 that the government adopted it and sent it into the procedure. So, then the very unserious government didn't have plans, if we were to look at it, it had no idea, because it had to be taken at the same level now, or that government was very insecure and it wasn't preparing any drafts, so we had to do it, or that government thought we should wait first for the adoption of the law, which it couldn't do, and then with the full law, which would have its final legal form, to edit the sublegal acts in co-operation with someone else. That some governments are more successful, so they do, and some leave in the domain what would be if they were, and that's what citizens will evaluate and see who's more efficient, more capable of doing something. As for sports clubs, the Ministry of the Interior is working to prevent all violations of public order and peace, and especially when doing so on a larger scale, you would see, and all the experts said that the reaction of the gendarme was timely and rapid. We limited the fact in such a way that no one was seriously injured. The gendarmes could have done it harshly, or the Ministry of the Interior, but we didn't want to hurt anyone. We have done so that no one is seriously injured, that all those who are guilty and have been charged with criminal charges against everyone responsible for the attack on the police, which we have strongly condemned. I'm telling you, I'm not gonna calm down until everyone who thinks they can live up to the police is where they belong. As for, of course, directorial services and private security, they legally play their part in preventing violence at sports events. It just can't be ignored. I've come out with suggestions many times, if they're incompetent, they don't have the capacity or they can't do it, let's change the law, that money goes to the Ministry of the Interior, that instead of the directorial services, the MUP will do those duties, and we'll have it that way. But it has to be done legally. If we're going to abolize that all those who participate get the money, some of the directorial services are set up and then we have torches, because the police don't control the introduction of torches on the ground. We don't do that. That's what the directors do. If they let the torch in, what's the police do? To get into the stands with five or ten thousand people and to cause a major-scale incident, to take that away from them, it's absolutely impossible. To empty the stadiums, to play in front of empty stadiums, I don't think it's in the interest of our country or our sport. But do I agree that something needs to be done, that you don't think that I'm someone who doesn't see that these problems exist, I couldn't agree more. I'm the first to talk about it more than once, and here and now I say it openly, I'm fully prepared to take over my share of the burden, even the burdens of others who may not be able to do it from those sports clubs and events. I'll talk to the FS people and the club people and see what we can do. If we need to seal all the passages, openings, offices and rooms from which, basically everyone knows it, where the pyrotechnics are brought in, it doesn't fall from the sky, it's done in collaboration with clubs, in collaboration with administrations, with fans, with these and those. So, as the pyrotechnics are introduced, that should be said completely to the people, not the one from the sky. Simply, whatever it takes I'm going to try, it's not just pyrotechnics, we need to send a clear message, and it has to be done by the Serbian judiciary. Whoever attacks a cop has to get a hard, sharp sentence. He who enters the stadium enters the field, whoever does anything that is not decent, and what threatens the safety of Serbian citizens absolutely needs to answer for it, and then the next one will not be remembered. We all have to get involved. The police can only bring these people in, they can file criminal charges. We can't, of course, judge or decide on the qualifications of their actions, that's what other bodies do. I hope they will support the police's efforts to take this evil, too, I must say, suppress it. Because what I was looking at on the derby and what you were watching, not only then but also in many years back, is simply not a good picture for the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, a handful of individuals or smaller organised groups do great damage to the full reputation of Serbian football and to the honest people who come to the stadium to rejoice with their club and to cheer for their club. So it's a job that we'll definitely get ready to do well and work with everyone in the future. I hope that if the whole society gets involved, we can make a result. Only the police can't even raise these young people at home, nor can they control absolutely every room in the stadium. We'd have to have 24 hours security of all the stadiums, and then someone would have to pay for it. We simply, at this point in time with the MUP budget, are not able to play, to say, that so many people are engaged in these jobs. Anyway, I think we'll have a lot more understanding in the future. Since people have seen what's going on, we're going to have an understanding when we're even stronger on police authority. Just so that the story doesn't turn around, as you know, when it does sometimes, then what the police do and when you apply police authority, then they say, you see, police brutality, look what the police are doing. The police cannot allow you to endanger these people's lives, throw them with a stone cube, some of which remain disabled, transfer to hospitals and their families remain without functional family members. That's something we have to deal with, and I'm asking for that support in that sense and for the support of the police.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27391	Thank you. On what basis, Mr. Veselinovic. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Let me contribute to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27392	Thank you for your understanding, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Stefanovic, when I talk about cheerleading groups and hooligans at the games, I don't think they're the cause of the problem. They're the perpetrators of those deeds you're talking about. The employers are sitting in other places, which are skillfully manipulated by them. The employers are sitting somewhere in the administrations of these clubs that have clear assignments for them. I'm talking about these structures that the Prime Minister also spoke of, Mr. Vukic, and he said there was no way to deal with them. that there's no way to deal with them. So he admitted he couldn't deal with them. Is Karadzic a man whose name cannot be spoken? Are some other people, names that can't be said now? So, it's not about manipulated people, of course, their criminal and any other responsibility should not be ignored, but it's a much deeper problem of Serbian football compared to the cheerleading groups that are true, shared certain parts of the city, you know that well in Novi Sad and Belgrade, this group and that group. It must not be a criminal procedure against them to leave out the cause of this problem, which is to settle the situation in our sport, and that is the job of both your ministry and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Youth and Sports, but above all, the entire government. Then we will have a situation in which laws will be strictly applied and which we will likely one day be in the position of some orderly countries. So, just so we don't replace the thesis in that case.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27393	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27394	Be assured that the prime minister strongly supports solving this problem. I truly believe in personal responsibility here. I don't want to generalize, I can't say – it's the cheerleading group this or she's guilty, there are people who are just here to cheer for their club, who love their club and who cheer for it. Do those who think that by dealing drugs in the stands, do those who think that they're going to commit crimes and that by turning themselves over to any cheerleader, political, political, someone who's involved in politics because he's committed a crime of being adjudicated? He won't. Then after that, he whines – he arrests me because I'm a member of a political party. No, you're arresting because you're suspected of stealing money. You're under arrest not because you're a fan, but because you were dealing drugs at the stadium. So when we clear this up, when we have complete support in society to deal with those who break the law, we will have no problems. I agree, you will see the absolute commitment of both the Government and the MUP, but we are also looking for strong support for society because in such serious countries it is being resolved. Today, I talked to representatives of the Swedish police for a long time about something called "the community police" and what the MUP insists on, several segments, intelligence police and police in the community as two basic segments of the assumption that we have a safer country and society. They say very openly -- without community support, without the support of municipalities, without the support of local security councils, in Serbia, unfortunately less than 40% of municipalities did not form a security council. It's the jurisdiction of local self-government, of course not the police. We encourage them to do so. Without the support of every salesperson in the store who will report seriously this crime that will affect the community. Not only are the police repressive branches, there aren't enough cops in any country to keep every corner in the country. Not in any country, not in any police force. But if the community affects these people and if their environment and neighbors and all the people who work in local self-government turn around and say – people don't do what you do, tear down our city, tear down our community, tear down our stadiums. Who benefits from a club fan or a small part of a club breaking chairs in the stands and being an even bigger paradox on the side of their club breaking chairs? Simply, then it must be the influence of those people who have greater influence on them, those who can influence them personally to show them that it's wrong. Then we're on the right track for some corrections and prevention. As police, we can always repressively act, and that's what the police will do. I'm just saying that when the judiciary shows a serious intention to punish those perpetrators severely, those people won't care if someone tells him to do this or that in the clubs, if he knows he's going to go to jail for more years. Then they'll think twice about what every man does at the stadium, which is why he does the job and why it's good not to do it that way. Then we'll have peaceful stadiums like England after years of fights, axes, chains and all. Now that he's walking the stadium, he gets five years in prison and nobody cares why he did it. Is this or what, you can't get into the field, it's impossible, don't step on the grass, there's a serious prison sentence. No fights, no guns, no pyrotechnics. That's how we have to do it, too. It's the only way. But that's what we're gonna have to do with everyone. It's just that it's taking too long for the night to solve, and the problem is suggested that we can naively imagine that by adopting some legal standards, they'll stop doing it from tomorrow morning. We have to make sure that it's a problem that we can, to control it for 24 hours, let's say it's not in the stadiums around the stadium when it's much harder and with more serious consequences. We better control that problem that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27395	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you, Mr Arsic, I will give the final word on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group on the draft law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act because my colleague Maria Obradovic, who was an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, is currently not in the hall. I'll start with what's just been taken out. It is not true that there is no solution to the problem of hooliganism in our stadiums, and the solution to this problem was presented by Mr. Vukic, which is the privatisation of sports clubs and the release of daily politics from all sports companies. It is a recipe that has produced results in many European countries and I think it can deliver results in the Republic of Serbia as well. As far as the bill is concerned, I have the impression that the MPs of the former regime have never read what the bill says. All the criticisms that have been addressed are at the expense of Mr Nebojja Stefanovic and the MUP, because they allegedly did not bring appropriate sublaws in time. However, if you look at this bill, which has only five members, you will see that Article 1 refers to the exemption from private security by facilities whose protection is carried out by state authorities, or whose protection is governed by regulations in the area of defence. Article 2 refers to the issue of the identity of officials, i.e. the fee to be paid on that occasion. Mr. Marko Djurisic, who I don't see in the O.R. right now, said it was unconstitutional. That's not true. The budget system law allows the minister to determine the amount of tax, so nothing is disputed from that point of view. In Article 3rd period of 18 months provided for legal persons and entrepreneurs to comply with the provisions of the Private Security Act shall be replaced by a new deadline on 1 January 2016. Article 4 also speaks of that period of 18 months, which is replaced by a new deadline, which is 1 January 2016, concerns individuals performing private security tasks, which are to meet the conditions prescribed by the law. Article 5 refers to the entry into force of the Law. So, in fact, this bill wanted to meet individuals and entrepreneurs who deal with private security matters so that they could meet the conditions that are pretty strict. But that's the way it's supposed to be when it comes to doing private security work. So there's no blame for the state. There is no guilt of the Minister, nor of the Ministry, nor of the Government. It is that the government is trying to create an environment for natural persons and entrepreneurs to adapt to the conditions prescribed by law so that they can deal with physical security matters. We don't see anything wrong with SNS. In addition, the minister said he was seriously considering accepting exactly one of the amendments so that the deadline would not be on 1 January 2016, but on 1 April 2016, and thus absolutely showed a good will to allow additional time for entrepreneurs and natural persons to meet the legal requirements for the performance of physical security tasks. As for what was said in the debate by former regime MPs, I must stress the following - during the time they exercised power in Serbia, Saric, Miskovic, Milo Djuraskovic and other tycoons and criminals created this country's policy. On account of both Aleksandra Vukic and Nebojja Stefanovica Saric, he is in prison, against Miskovic, Djuraskovic and others who have robbed the road companies, and I must give a confession to Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Nebojsa Stefanovic was to become interior minister and reveal who killed Ranko Panic and I congratulate you on that. No one has ever been able to do this before, and thus you have shown great personal and political courage, as you have shown courage and determination in saving the kidnapped child, which Marko Djurisic has talked about in such a funny way and asked – is this your job? Of course it is. I congratulate you on this action that was carried out in lightning, fast, and what is most important, effective, and one girl is practically saved from being a victim of human trafficking and I really don't see any reason for the MPs of the former regime to mock it. What I also want to say to Mr Stefanovic, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the former regime here is giving us a lecture on how the government, or the resolution ministry, did not bring appropriate sublaws in time. For the sake of history and for the sake of truth, I will remind the MPs and citizens who may be following this session of the obligations of the National Assembly when a new Constitution is adopted. The new Constitution was adopted in November 2006 i.e. The current Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In Article 5. The constitutional law adopted on the same day as the Constitution writes – the newly elected composition of the National Assembly will, during the first session following the elections, comply with the constitutional laws governing the citizens' protection and the exercise of citizens' rights in the area of the Citizens' Protectors, the authority responsible for the monitoring and exercise of citizens' rights to notification, the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the authorities of the DRI, and during the second session following the elections the Government of the National Assembly will comply with the Constitution of the laws relating to the application of the provisions of the Constitution to courts and public prosecutors and those laws governed by the organisation and jurisdiction of the courts, then the function of the President of the Courts and Judges, the VSS etc., etc., that I do not quote the entire text of Article 5. The question is, is he a respected member of the 5th? The constitutional law of the RS? It's not. Who's to blame? The former regime. Why? The elections were in January 2007. After that, the RS government was established headed by Vojislav Kostunica, which also participated the DS, about 20 minutes before midnight, before the end of the 90-day deadline prescribed by the Constitution for the formation of the government and if it had not been for Tomislav Nikolic and his gentlemanly relationship to politics, the government would never have been formed, which might not have been so bad. What I want to point out is that the president of the National Assembly was beholding the wonders of Oliver Dulic, the prominent piece of DS, who later became a low-building expert and is now under trial because he was messing with some of the travel companies and embezzled huge state money and then those who lecture us about how the minister allegedly did not bring some sublegal acts in time, the SNS asked them – and why did DS not bring such important laws to which they were bound by the Constitutional Law? They brought them in, but much later than the Constitutional Law prescribed. They've passed criminal laws. The consequences of these laws were, among other things, the cutting of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors. The entire judicial system in the RS has been paralyzed for several years and all decisions of the Constitutional Court that these judges, i.e. public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors return to those functions, we have had one problem that the EU itself has pointed to. So that the lessons of those who robbed Serbia, those who disobeyed the Constitutional Law, are not really necessary. What I also want to point out, and that was said in the discussion of Marko Djurisic, is impossible that only some state officials in Serbia have status, let no one misread me, sacred cows, which are not allowed to say anything, and not even to provide facts and to provide true information, such as the public's protector, but that for that reason you can present untruths, insults, that you are engaged in personal and private life in an incorrect manner when it comes to Aleksandar Vukic, Nebojsa Stefanovic, Tomislav Nikolic and other SNS officials. These days, for example, an action led by self-called members of the so-called intellectual elite in Serbia, is under way to protect the public's protector, allegedly because he is being persecuted by the executive authority and is being persecuted by the SNS. Now the SNS, now Vukic and Nebojsa Stefanovic, Vladimir Djukanovic, Zoran Babic or Aleksandar Jovicic are guilty because it was found that a man, under very strange circumstances, lost his life in Sasa Jankovic's apartment on April 1st 1993. Now there's a petition for why you can even talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27397	Time, Mr. Martinović
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27398	Here, I'm done. But whenever someone comes to mind, they can, for example, deal with the spin and falsified theme of falsifying the doctorate of Nebojja Stefanovic and we should now be silent, but because when the public defender is mentioned, the question immediately arises why you mention the protection of citizens and why you mention the alleged suicide in his apartment, while members of the intellectual elite have been putting such pressure on the police that the suicide of journalist Dade Vujasinovic is renamed murder to the extent that the pressure was simply unsustainable. That's where you see double standards. So do the same thing in the same situation. Here, for the end, since I have no more time, and thank you, Mr Arsic, for understanding, Mr Stefanovic, I ask you, although I do not feel the need to do so, but as deputy president of the SNS Group, I want to do so, and among other things, because I come from Vojvodina, I ask you to do everything that is up to you, as Minister of the Interior, to shed light on all criminal affairs in the Vojvodina Development Bank, in the Capital Investment Fund, in the Vojvodina Development Fund, in all the Ministrys, in all public enterprises and institutions whose founder of the AP Vojvodina, because there are a lot of crime and corruption, there are a lot of robberies and lawlessness, and, of course, together with you, will do everything to those who are responsible for this lawlessness and political penalties in the elections that, as you say, are going to be far too big or too big.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-06-0.u27399	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint principled single search on draft laws and a review of the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6 of the agenda. This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at 11.00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
