ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41677	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, or at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next MPs -- Natasa Vukkovic and Mladen Grujic. We continue the search in detail of the 5th agenda – Proposal for a Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2016. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic, the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, began the fourth day of our budget marathon, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in our National Assembly, and we have now come to the amendment to Article 6. Draft budget law for 2016. I, of course, am also taking this opportunity on the amendments that we People's MPs of the New Party have tabled on this bill to Article 6, to ask a further question to Minister Vujovic. I would be pleased if Minister Sertic were there, since the content of article 6, Mrs Gojkovic, concerns the re-subsidisation. We see, based on the draft budget as a whole, but also on the content of Article 6, that the policy of subsidising investors, Minister Vujovic, continues. Minister Sertic justified it here yesterday in his speech, and I, Minister Vujovic, now ask you a question – has the government prepared a methodology for assessing the effects of these subsidies, gentlemen? If there is no methodology for assessing the effects of subsidies, this means that our government is throwing money at the fire, Minister Vujovic, or, as the World Bank claims, to whom Mr Vučić and you, Mr Vujovic, are also called, it will be a waste of money through subsidies, and no one knows where the money went and what the effects of such spending are. I repeat the question – did the Government prepare a methodology for assessing the effects of the subsidies provided for in this draft budget for 2016, respected Minister Vujovic and respected National Assembly presidents. I also ask the president to tell me, is every day when we have an amendment debate, we have the right to have those five amendments minutes, or have we already spent them?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41679	You have no right, you spent yesterday, I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41680	And there aren't five more minutes today?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41681	It's not every day now, it's not. Thank you. Zoran Zivkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41682	Here, since it's a new day, let's remind ourselves of the subject. The topic is Serbia's 2016 budget, which came to parliament late for 40 days almost. No association of those 40 days, I'm just saying. So it was supposed to be sent to parliament on November 1st, and it came December 4th. According to the Rules of Procedure, of course, and under the Law on the Budgetary System, 15 days should take his consideration in parliament until the session we are now attending. It's only been three or four days. All possible infringements of the procedure in this procedure have been carried out. Let's remind you why that's happening. Because this is a bad budget, because it is a coward's egg to Serbia for next year, where it has neither its developmental nor its social component, but it is a budget that aims to increase the privileges of the ruling set-up, especially the narrowest circle around it, and to leave Serbian citizens on all these life parameters that we had last year, which means -- there is no new employment, no new serious investment, no improvement in the situation in any area, we have no parameters to say that we have reduced the public debt, that the conditions are infrastructure for any further progress. There's talk of 80 kilometers of highways, and we all know that only 28 have been completed in the last three years, and that everything else is highways that started five, six, seven, eight years ago. Therefore, this budget, unfortunately, is another farce from the government of Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41683	Thank you. Let's get this straight. First, Marijan Risticevic answered the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41684	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs here objected that the budget was coming late, and the motioner was elected on the list of those who adopted the budget on December 30th, before midnight. So they were going to adopt the budget by midnight on December 30th. Someone who's been on the electoral list of those who did this today has such a grudge. Who knows he doesn't know, he already knows something. The awareness of ignorance is the first step towards knowledge. I could help my fellow farmer, but he'd have to cooperate. If he has any regrets about this budget, if he proposes another praise, I ask that we do not accept their amendment, since, at a time when I was an MP from 2000 to 2003, when they were forgiven by the Paris and London Club for two-thirds of the debt, it was not their fault, Mr Vujovic, but the merits of the citizens and the energy of the then government of the Republic of Serbia, where my fellow farmer is as far away as possible in the federal government, so I would say that this amendment should be rejected, because it simply cannot be explained to them, they cannot be helped because they do not want to co-operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41685	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41686	Good afternoon, Honorable President, honourable MPs, to take this opportunity to welcome you to the follow-up of the discussion we began yesterday. We got to the 5th member last night, now we're starting with article 6. Article 6 is an innovation in the budget, an innovation caused by the real need to encourage foreign investments that all countries in the region, which have all countries in the world, see reality. It's impossible to encourage planning and budgeting in one year. Since it is usually about investments that from the moment of security of funds to the moment of realization require the passage of time and it is very difficult to predict in our terms exactly when all administrative and other conditions will be met to start with stimulation. In order not to overburden the budget with plans of stimulation that will be withdrawn over the next two or three years, we have decided to be realistic and to plan it for three years. That's exactly what article 6 is doing. It forecasts 8.133,000,000 dinars for 2016 and related programmes of 6.6 billion dinars in 2017 and 8.4 billion dinars in 2018. These next two years are, of course, indicative figures and this refers to the existing programs that we planned so. When new programs appear, when better known, then we will retain the right to revise these figures for 2017 and 2018, but about that. I can't accept the suggestion to delete this member. All comments made here by the promoter are not relevant to this member. This article is planned very closely under the Investment Act. Before that was the Investment Regulation, it is a system that has existed for many years in Serbia. The system has been improved in the meantime, decisions on these investments are made on the basis of expert analyses. Whether they can be better, sure, but they have all the elements that gentlemen say are gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41687	Thank you, Minister. Time. Thank you. The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41688	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just for a moment. I find this amendment to Article 6, first of all, pointless. Why? Because he's useless. It is not in the best interest of our citizens, as the minister said, Mr Vujovic. This is a good innovation that brings good to our citizens. Everything that is not in the interest of our citizens cannot be accepted. One message to our citizens that they can be calm. They have a government that's responsible. They have a budget that we're discussing, which is, above all, real, responsible, domestic. Because of all of this and what we heard in yesterday's debate, if we had these amendments with the same text – we would have deleted, from the same proposings, wiped out the entire budget, and this would have inconceivable consequences for our citizens, which we heard the arguments and I wouldn't have added anything to it or taken away from it. Finally, to conclude, this amendment certainly should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41689	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41690	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, distinguished guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I consider the presidents to have just been injured by members of 1, 107, 171 and up to 178. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I will now explain to you that the Rules of Procedure have been injured in all these members. I am very surprised that the MP, Mrs Milosevic, has now announced that the amendment of the MPs to the draft laws sent by the government is a pointless matter. President-in-Office Mrs Gojkovic, the application of the amendment is the right of MPs. The submission of amendments means that some MPs have made an effort, devoted some time to declaring their position on what is contained in a bill. Dear Mrs Gojkovic, once again, I am so surprised to say that Mrs Milosevic is right now, I have learned from her a constructive discussion here, prepared for discussion, and I am surprised when Mrs Milosevic for the MPs who submit amendments, which is our right to declare that they are doing pointless work. I read in the Serbian language dictionary in the Novi Sad Mother of Serbia, Mrs Gojkovic, which means senseless, says – which is contrary to common sense. Mrs Gojkovic, Mrs Milosevic says that when we submit an amendment to the Assembly to our legislative body, it is contrary to common sense. Mrs Gojkovic, I believe that your obligation was to act, and if you have not heard at that time, to now tell Mrs Milosevic that the amendment is the right of Members of Parliament and of a meaningful right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41691	Thank you. I didn't react, so the word senseless then it's impeachable, if it makes sense, then there's no offense to say that something defiant of meaningful, pointless. I expected you to say that you are “surprised and offended, ” right? Well, yeah. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, shall we vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41692	I thank the chairman. He was injured, or abused by a member of 103th by Mr Pavicevic, whom I am personally very surprised by the treatment and attitude of my dear colleague Milosevic, I expected from some other MPs. We have an MP here who has already expressed his, let me say, masqueradingly, to say, a trait, but I really didn't expect it from Mr Pavicevic. I think he should apologize for what he said to the esteemed Mrs. Milosevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41693	I did not really take any discussion as an insult, neither Mrs Milosevic nor Mr Pavicevic. I can't take away his time when there's no time. It's a small problem when you're a small group, then I can't take anything away from you, and for punishment he had no right to speak his mind. Here you go. You think there's a need. (Nevenka Milosevic, from the place: I'll be brief) No one meant anything wrong, but here you go, explain the amendment, that's the best you wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41694	I've already explained the amendment, and I can give further clarifications that it's good because it's innovative. Of course, I'm not offended, because it's important who gives criticism. So, no problem, it's good that the amendments are being submitted here in the Assembly and that's for every commendation, but this time I'm only focusing on this amendment, not on everyone else, all the other 400 amendments. The benefit of this congregation is that we have differing opinions. Whether we understood each other well or not, we didn't have an appraisal from a fellow MP. I'm not offended because I know who gave me that criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41695	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41696	I would like to thank the Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers. As you know, we have proposed that Article 6 be deleted, for the simple reason that we are against incentives to economy in the way you predicted it, among other things, and the Investment Act, which did not come across DS support, primarily because of transparency and because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has discretionary right to decide which business entities can get that help and which are not similar to getting that help. There is no public call, nor in the Investment Act itself, and now that you are predicting this item to help a business company tomorrow, we are asking whether these are business-like companies. Is there any criterion? It doesn't exist. We saw when you proposed the Investment Act. On the other hand, these are primarily false investments that we did not agree with, which are from "Biograda on Water", which is also part of this debate and in principle, this is primarily an investment in Novi Sad, in Obrenovac, when millions and millions of euros are invested, and workers' salaries do not cross the minimum. What is also important is that 10,000 euros per job continue. The Democratic Party is strictly against it, and we have proposed in our election programme, or pre-election programme, to delete it and to help Serbia in a different, more transparent way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41697	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was filed by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41698	I thank the president. Mr Vujovicu, like Mr Bozovic, we suggest that you leave the way incentivise selected economic operators. You say in response to the amendments by colleagues Pavicevic and Zivkovic, there are some criteria in the Investment Law. That's exactly why we were against the Investment Act. The law states that the government will subsequently set the criteria, that the government will decide on what investments are of particular importance, which are of local importance, all the Government itself manages, and we see what kind of investors you share and how there are investors in this country that are more equal than other investors. I asked in the Assembly a few days ago, yesterday I talked to Mr. Sertic, and here's an example of an investment in Novi Sad. The city gives land worth 12.5m euros. The city invests billions of dinars in the construction of a hall on the land of three billion dinars and an investor who is reportedly coming, with which, of course, neither a memorandum nor anything is signed, it announces an ad for receiving 1,000 employees and that, the only condition for receiving the job is that it can stand for eight hours. It means that these people will have, I suppose, minimum earnings, or in any case, they won't be high because it's not about some highly qualified workforce. When we calculated that, it turns out that the city of Novi Sad or the Republic, I don't know where the ratio of who's going to invest, pays 30,000 euros every job in that company, and these people are going to get minimals. Can you explain to me how it's an investment in Novi Sad and not that company?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41699	Thank you. The 7th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41700	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic, distinguished guests from the RS government, respected Minister Vujovic. We are, of course, asking a large number of questions concerning the content of the members of the draft budget law, and Article 7 contains some remarks on the budget of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Of course, we will continue to ask questions although we often do not get an answer from Minister Vujovic, such as, for example, I did not get an answer to the question whether the government has prepared a methodology for assessing the effects of the subsidies it will give. Do we have that methodology or not? If there are methodologies, then that means there was a serious approach, if there is no methodology, it means throwing money into the fire. Is that what this government is doing then? Related to Article 7. The draft budget law, it necessarily brings us back to Article 184. The constitution of our republic regarding the financial autonomy of autonomous provinces and the allocation of 7% to Vojvodina in relation to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It necessarily, gentlemen, directs us to the issue of constitutional review in our Republic. I am asking the question now, not only to Minister Vujovic, but also to the Prime Minister and all ministers, how it is possible that this government, in this year and eight months and that former government led by Mr Dacic, which lasted a year and a few months, that these two governments did not approach the most important issue in our republic for three and a half years, and this is a constitutional audit, gentlemen. What happens when we know that this constitution is problematic, on the procedural side, on the metric side, on the subjective side, on each side, the esteemed Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41701	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41702	Thank you. Two things are disputed by the rejection of this amendment to Article 7. First because, why was it given? Because it addresses the issue of the participation of Vojvodina in the budget, i.e. funding from the budget, which belongs to the AP Vojvodina budget, which lists one broader list, but this, as counterpart Pavicevic said, does not have a foothold in that constitutional provision, nor is the constitutional provision the right way to define the financing of Vojvodina. To remind myself, some years ago in 2002 or 2003, a law was adopted on the return of certain powers to the AP Vojvodina, known as the OMNIBUS Law, which gave a good basis for defining the constitutional legal position of Vojvodina's Autonomy in Serbia, but then no government, nor this first-ever government, has done anything to implement it through adequate constitutional changes, and therefore we ask that this member be deleted until a real solution is found. The other thing is, for the president's question, not for the minister. The report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives states that the amendment to Article 7 submitted by my colleague Pavicevic and I is unconstitutional. In the opinion of the Committee. So I'd like the Committee's reporter to tell us why it's unconstitutional. You said yesterday that he wrote something, wiped it with a pen after the board's session. Whether it's the result of that some attack of scribomania or it's some deeper root of it. I think we deserve to get an answer to the question from the president of the board, so please ensure his presence and give you an answer before the session continues.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41703	They'll come, but it's not the result of writing, of erasing. I've been to the vote, and I know that your amendment is also characterised by the vote as unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41704	How can he vote? Well, I suppose you'll say against what member of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41705	That's the procedure in our Parliament. And there's something else left, we'll see. If she adopts, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41706	Well, it's not a choice for Miss, it's a constitutional vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41707	Yes, it is, it is. Thank you. Dusan Vujovic, first minister has the advantage, so you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41708	I'll just have a quick answer. Your argument prior to the motion to delete this member and the proposal itself, it seems to me that they are not consistent with each other. It is true that it writes in the Constitution 7% of the budget, but it is incorrect and this member is required just until a more precise law is passed that will regulate the issue of funding of the AP Vojvodina. In the meantime, we were in doubt about what 7% refers to. Article 7 defines what 7% refers to and talks about the formula, which we said yesterday, not to repeat. On the division of income tax, on the division of legal persons and on how all jobs are treated, all transfers and all other activities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and therefore, without this it would be very difficult to share the budget and control whether it is properly shared or not. Therefore, I would say vice versa, there must be a member like this until a more precise legal solution is passed, not that it is deleted, until a legal solution is passed. It's not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41709	The answer was only. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41710	Ladies and gentlemen, as someone who lives in Vojvodina, as someone who advocated a certain degree of Vojvodina autonomy, while my fellow farmer was against the return of a certain degree of Vojvodina autonomy, I find this proposal unacceptable for two reasons. One is that this would lead to the inability to finance the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Other reasons are political. I think that they should not worry about financing the AP Vojvodina, especially not for the part after April or May 2016 when they are more concerned about it in the AP Vojvodina, not with our merits, but with citizens who can no longer bear the scratching in Vojvodina for 15 years, where the AP Vojvodina's us who advocated decentralisation instead of Belgradeization got a newization, where private businesses were created in the AP Vojvodina Government, in the province government, instead of the province government. That is why I propose that this amendment be rejected, and counterpart Martinovic will certainly explain for what reason this amendment was unconstitutional. I don't think my colleague a farmer with all due respect can be an expert on legal matters, and here he behaves as an expert on things, and an expert on things is actually an expert on nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41711	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by National MP Branko Karavidic. Does he want a word? (No) National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41712	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. This is one of the series of my amendments that I am trying to convince you that AP Vojvodina must belong to 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. In this amendment, I suggest you do it through excises. That's what we talked about yesterday. You don't think that's possible. I don't mind, I'll do a correction to the amendment, just tell me where they can get that money to pay off what it owns under the Constitution, because it's not, Mr. Vujovic, money for the government of Vojvodina. It's money for the people of Vojvodina and what's very important, the money the government of Vojvodina uses to make these citizens' lives as high-quality as possible. Not only do you not provide those 7%, first thing, to the soul then the finance minister was magically missing Lazar Krstic, the first thing this government did when it came to financing the AP Vojvodina was reduced the base based on which 7% is calculated. There has always been a debate since the Constitution was brought here I agree with you that a member of the Constitution is unspecified whether it is 7% of the income or 7% of the expenditure, but what has your government done? You didn't even say 7% of the income which is less than 7% of the expenditure. You said 7% of tax revenues. The problem is that you don't write it anywhere in the budget, and then you don't even pay those 7% of tax revenues because you falsely put funds into the Vojvodina budget for the salaries of primary and secondary education educators, in order to make that budget appear to be 7%, although it must be the obligation of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the laws relating to the payment of these earnings. You talked about what it's like, I've got a good time, so I'll go over the other amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41713	The word has a People's MP, Olena Papuga, on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41714	No, I'm using MP group time by amendment. I support this amendment, and I would like to stress that the League is the Social Democrats of Vojvodina for this reduction and non-compliance with these constitutional 7%, will appeal to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the Vojvodina with this budget for 2016 have cut three-quarters of the budget. What my colleague was saying about transfer funds, that's true. These aren't the funds that are in those 7%, they'll just go through, let's say, Vojvodina because they're directly paid into local self-government. So, you're saying that Vojvodina got more than last year, it's kind of not seen in this budget, and it's not seen in any of the duchy revenues, about those 7% that we're not talking about. So, once again, I say that the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina will appeal to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41715	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41716	So we've already spoken the detailed numbers twice. It is quite true that there is no single summary of all the transfers of income and expenses of the AP Vojvodina, that is correct, but there is no obligation under the law to do so. Once the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina is passed, then it will be the subject of the law. Currently, this Budget Law, system law and Article 7 of this law that we've just discussed, speaks very precisely what is going on in the transfers. The proposal by counterpart Aleksandra Jerkov essentially says this – that other than these shares in income, on the income tax of citizens and corporate income tax, another third of excise tax is added. We can consider various proposals and they should be part of the discussion of the new financing law. The 7% limit remains. What in your proposal, this part that you're talking about higher education, it exists, look at the section on higher education, which, in the universities that are territorial, except for some parts of the University of Vojvodina that have departments in Serbia, everything else is actually territorially defined. So it's already covered and it counts, but it doesn't have to be written in this article. This part that you're proposing, part of it is missing, and that's a dedicated transfer to pay for people in primary education. All that can be settled by law. It's written like this right now. Yesterday, we showed an estimate that it exceeds 8% based on existing numbers. Is this about what the budget is, whether it's revenue, whether it's expenditure, should also be resolved by that law. So we totally agree that it's a matter to be resolved, but now I think a amendment like this would disrupt completely, paint some incomes that aren't currently colored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41717	Thank you. Olena Papuga, then Alexandra Jerkov has her word again. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I would not, unless I had the right to reply.) You got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41718	Thank you. The problem is, Mr Vujovic, you don't even count 7% of the income, which is less than 7% of the expenditure. You count for 7% of tax revenue. The salaries of higher education employees are not a problem, and they should be the jurisdiction of the autonomous province because they are. The problem is the salaries of primary and secondary education employees who are put into the AP Vojvodina budget contrary to the basic education and education system, although they are the exclusive competence of the Republic. I would personally like it to be the jurisdiction of an autonomous province, but until it's the jurisdiction of an autonomous province, you're talking about the law, why would Vojvodina pay those salaries and why would it enter the budget of an autonomous province if Vojvodina doesn't have such jurisdiction. You're talking about the law on financing, the jurisdiction of the autonomous province, you're, I think, the first finance minister and my personal congratulations, who didn't create a working group to deal with the preparation of the law. To the soul, you announced during the summer that he would be there in two or three days, and then there were no principles or I don't know what else, but you just know until the law was passed, and apparently there are serious political problems with that law being passed, life is somehow flowing. Vojvodina has serious funding problems. You know that you denied four and a half billion dinars, and that's why Vojvodina had to rebalance the 2015 budget, you say, because of the NIS profits. I read how much I read in the media next to you is a colleague who gets four thousand euros a month in this NIS. He can tell us about getting NIS. They could have calculated a little differently so that such things could happen, so they gave the Republic of Serbia budget no money and you falsely say that there is, or there is money and you AP Vojvodina don't give because its citizens didn't vote for SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41719	The replica of Minister Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41720	Yesterday you listed a figure he mentioned I don't know exactly who, but it was mentioned in the media, and only after that was it announced to the Ministry of Finance of some 4.4 billion, which are a failure in the design of revenue and the collection of the government's revenue. That's right, because of the business results that were smaller. We told you at the time that there is no basis for you to expect the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia to make up for it, because according to that same instrument called the profit of the company, Serbia has achieved less income, the same as Vojvodina, Vojvodina is 42.7% and Serbia is 57.3%. Therefore, it has no basis. Whoever wrote that really doesn't respect the law, doesn't read the law and doesn't interpret the law. Nowhere in the Constitution or in this article does it say that the state of Serbia, i.e. Serbia's state budget has to replace someone's decline in income, as we don't have to replace the decline in income to any municipality that plans its own income in the part where they cut their taxes and charge their own, such as. tax on immovable property, i.e. on the property. Also, there is no obligation here in the Republic of Serbia that Vojvodina, however correctly it may have been calculated 4.4 billion, but that is your fall in income, not the obligation of the Serbian state. So we need to talk here as part of the law. It's like we're talking to Europe or the Fund, or anyone else, and you say -- we're down to tax revenues, please replace us. That would be total nonsense, according to this definition of the Serbian Mother of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41721	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what's being said about the AP Vojvodina is the most common inexplicable, and about funding education and financing, I mean the applicants of the amendment. We have specifically regulated the powers of the AP Vojvodina, and in this law it is said – in the field of education, the AP through its authorities in the field of pre-school and primary education and education, according to the law, the establishment of institutions, gives consent to an act on the network of primary schools, gives consent to the organisation of a separate department, verifies, appoints executives, gives consent to the appointment of directors. So, absolutely, the Republic has given up its powers in favour of the AP Vojvodina by this law. From the Republic's budget, the funding is now transferred to the authority of the AP Vojvodina. Here is the story that is constantly being made in parliament, which is that the Republic of Serbia is taking something away from the province. That's not true. I'm glad the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Education doesn't know the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina in the area where the chairman of the Committee is. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: There is no such committee. ) Well, we can read from the Rules of Procedure correctly. It's not a dispute, but it's disputed that in that area it runs...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41723	Ambassador, would you be so kind as to say that to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41724	... He does not know the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and allegedly advocates the autonomy of the province, so he also reduces 20 billion dinars by amending the amount of employees in the field of education. Take my time from an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41725	I have a double role, I'm from Vojvodina, and I chair. I will read, so that there is no error in me giving the word over the line, Olena Papuga, Marijan Rističević and Aleksandra Jerkov It's not. [[Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Only if it is a replica.]] Then, Olena Papuga, then Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41726	This may not be clear, at least 7%, but it's not a limit. It's in the Constitution. I'm only interested, Minister, when will the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina be passed? Looks like there's the biggest problem we're talking about right now and about funding Vojvodina. You promised that a long time ago. It's already been half a year. It's not gonna happen. Do you know when this funding bill will be passed?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41727	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41728	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as someone who lives in Vojvodina, as someone who advocated the autonomy of Vojvodina, as someone whose party was the first registered party in 1990, who respected a certain degree of Vojvodina autonomy, I am obliged to tell you what it looks like in the conduct of jurisdiction and financing in the case of health. We from the Republic finance the costs of employees, food, energy, medicines, etc., and the AP Vojvodina itself decides on its own staff who will be in the boards of directors, who will implement it on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The shadow minister, Mrs. Nada Cemerlic, doctor, director of Kariovascularna in Sremska Kamenica, understood it this way – we transfer the money for the food of patients, transfer it to care for myocardial diseases, it takes 33 billion from there in 2013 and transfers for staff expenditures and instead of 12% of non-medical staff, it has 22%. Takes from the food for patients 30 and a few million and transfers for non-medical staff salaries, so, the surplus that the party employed, etc. And about her husband, who she's giving money to, taking from the food of patients, money intended for feeding patients, patients faded, but Ms. Shadow Minister shares that money for her husband's projects. Mrs. Nada Cemerlic takes from patients who faded after surgery to transfer money for the cost of non-medical staff, and we bear the costs. We transfer money to patients, and they take it from patients, so they give it to their party employees. So at this point, it looks like funding services in the AP Vojvodina, especially in health care, and we want to end it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41729	Members of the 7th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41730	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the refusal of our amendment speaks of this government artificially trying to meet the constitution's minimum funding requirement, that the Vojvodina budget is at least 7%. In what way? This article provides that the AP Vojvodina budget also includes dedicated and non-purpose transfers to local self-government units on the territory of the AP Vojvodina in accordance with the Law on the financing of local self-government. We have suggested that this section be deleted, referring to the Law on Local Self-Government, which speaks of the Law on Local Self-Government not predicting the budget of the AP Vojvodina. I can't have those things defined by the Law on Local Self-Government being part of the AP Vojvodina budget. The government, refuting my amendment, says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason why establishing the Law on the financing of local self-government is not income belonging to the AP Vojvodina budget. So, you wrote this, the revenues that under the Law on the financing of local self-government do not belong to the budget of the AP Vojvodina, it says in an explanation of the rejection of the amendments, and in the budget you put these revenues in accordance with the Law on the financing of local self-government are part of the budget of the AP Vojvodina, dedicated and non-intentional transfers. It just can't. You wrote it yourself. Here is an explanation – the subject of the regulation of the Law on the financing of local self-government is not income belonging to the budget of the AP Vojvodina. And you wrote in your budget that according to the law, these dedicated transfers belong to part of the AP Vojvodina budget. So he can't. Look closely, he can't. This amendment must be accepted. Here, Mr. Martinovic has arrived to explain to me why this amendment does not comply with the Constitution, as his Committee has concluded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41731	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Marinkovic. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41732	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, members of the Government, the amendment that I have submitted refers to Article 7(3) and is amended and reads as follows: ‘the funds for salaries for persons employed in education in the territory of the AP Vojvodina referred to in Article 2(2) of this Article shall be paid at least once a month and in accordance with the labour regulations’. The explanation I have received is the same as the explanation that my colleagues have received from this member, and it is evident and I think that a qualitative second approach to solving our country's economic problems gives rise to the consequences that you have in your answers, meaning, very briefly, the puzzling answers that are intended to be rejected. We have not submitted amendments to give you problems or that we do not know who to offend, but we have submitted amendments, and we personally believe that the Social Democratic Party-Boris Tadic wants to make a constructive approach to solving a serious problem, which is to bring this budget into line in the right way and hence, and the proposals we make are too high and meaningful and they want to make a better life for the citizens. We have answers to all of that. Normally, all MPs have the right to have their opinions and to express that opinion, but I say a qualitatively different approach has the effect of talking to us as if we wanted to spoil something, and so on in this amendment. So, we haven't asked for reason, and in reason we wrote that the solution that exists in this article, which refers to dedicated transfers for financial expenditures for employees in education in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, gives the discretionary right that the government can determine the dynamics and amount of money they pay, which is not good, because in order for your system to function this system must have stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41733	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since a few colleagues from the former regime's parties called me to do nothing, I don't know what to explain, because of them and for the citizens of Serbia. First, I did not deal with any starch, as Zoran Zivkovic said, at a session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. The session started on time. We've been thinking about about 416 or 417, don't take me for harm if I've wronged the number, but I think 417 amendments to all the draft laws that are on the agenda of this session. The session was attended by my distinguished colleague, Mrs Gordana Komic of the DS, who absolutely did not have any objections in the way of holding the session. Mrs. Comic took part in the vote in line with her political commitment, so the session passed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the illusion that someone was tampering at the Committee session, I really don't understand and I don't know what Zoran Zivkovic was talking about and what he meant to say. If he thought he was being funny, I don't think that worked out for him. As for concerns about how the citizens of Vojvodina will live, whom the citizens of Vojvodina have shown confidence, I have to correct a DS colleague who said the Serbian government allegedly denied some rights to Vojvodina in public finances, because in her opinion, the people of Vojvodina did not vote for the SNS, but voted for the DS, so now the Serbian government is punishing them for it. I don't know what this is about. In March 2014, therefore, in the last parliamentary elections, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, since we are talking about the budget, and the budget is an expensive number, I will express myself in the language of numbers that everyone understands. The list of SNSs called Aleksandar Vucic – The future we believe in has won 414,683 votes or 46,27% votes in the territory of Vojvodina. The DS list won in the territory of the AP Vojvodina 52,490 votes or 5.86% of the vote. In the territory of the entire Vojvodina, 5.86% of the vote was won, and out of 45 Vojvodina municipalities and cities of the DS list did not cross the census, it did not win 5% of the votes in 19 municipalities and cities. She did not cross the census even in the most successful, most important, genius community in the world in which DS showed all its potential, all its knowledge and skill as to how a municipality is managed in a quality way, according to them, in the Indji municipality. They have been listening since 2000, since Goran Jesic became president of the Indji municipality, that everything is great, investors are being brought in, new jobs are being opened, no one else can run the Indji municipality except DS, but when the elections came in March 2014, the DS in that same India did not cross the censorship. That's what happened to you in 18 more dukely municipalities and cities. The remark that the Serbian government is punishing the people of Vojvodina for voting for the DS is ridiculous. That remark is completely pointless. The people of Vojvodina absolutely supported the SNS and will do so in the upcoming province elections. As for the financing of the AP Vojvodina, Article 184 states that the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party, the LSV, has deliberately and consciously misread and deceived the people of Vojvodina for years to mean that the Serbian government is obliged to transfer from the Republic of Serbia's budget, as they say, 7% to the AP Vojvodina budget. As I interpret the provision of the Constitution, this is the position of Article 4 of the 184th, and that means that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in some way formulates the financial borders and the income and expenditure sides of the AP Vojvodina budget. So, in some ways, it gives him certain contours, that he must be at least 7% in relation to the Republic of Serbia's budget. As Dr Dusan Vujovic said yesterday, the budget has an income and expenditure side and this 7% means that it should be at least 7% in terms of the Republic of Serbia's budget revenues and at least 7% in terms of the budget expenditures of the Republic of Serbia. This stance continues to be used by AP Vojvodina's three-week budget to finance capital expenditures. This is actually where we come to the core of the problem of financing the AP Vojvodina. It is not a problem in the government of the Republic of Serbia, the problem is in the Region government, or what was once called the Executive Council of Vojvodina. What you declared capital expenditure wasn't capital expenditure. Ms. Jerkov, you are as aware as I am, the creation of primary schools, the creation of cultural homes by village, the accumulation of ataric roads at prices that were three times, 10 times, 20 times higher than market costs are not capital expenditures. You ran it as capital expenditure, but it's not capital expenditure. The capital investment fund that he was supposed to deal with was mostly not involved. He was dealing with money pumping in the most wireless way possible for the purpose of funding the DS campaign. We have shown this on a thousand examples, not only when it comes to that famous castle "Hetherland" in New Vienna and when it comes to children being distracted in development. Ask Mr Nebojsa Malenkovic, ask Mr Momčel Milovic how they spent money from the Capital Investment Fund. In addition to the "Hatterland" Castle, you have a malversion at the Lower Music School "Philip Višnić" in Šid, you have malversions at the Cultural Educational Centre of Shid, you have malversions in every municipality and city where DS was in power and where capital investments have declared some investments that were absolutely not capital and which, worst of all, are not realised, but are transferred, and the works have never been carried out. And so far, no one's answered. It's a problem facing the citizens of Vojvodina. It's not your fault, the government of the Republic of Serbia. When I tell you, I mean the DS that runs today, I hope for another month, the AP Vojvodina. So, it's not a problem that Vojvodina doesn't have enough money, the problem is that money is being managed in a criminal way, which is that money belonging to the people of Vojvodina buys apartments, buys vineyards, buys some real estate abroad. And for that there is countless evidence that the actors of these affairs are exactly the highest DS officials. Mr. Marjan Risticevic spoke to you about your shadow health minister, who has committed numerous embezzlements in the KC Vojvodina. The president of the UO KC Vojvodina at the time was Dusan Elezovic. What are you talking about? Take a look in the mirror and see what your people are doing. To respond to my colleagues from the SDS, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has announced that they are not in conformity with the Constitution and the legal system, not because it was anyone's whim, but because their amendments were not in line with the relevant provisions of the Budgetary System Act. You have a decision of the Constitutional Court that speaks, that the constitutional system must be consistent and that the laws must be consistent with each other. When we adopt the budget, we take care of one roof law, about the Budgetary System Act. The amendments of Mr Đurisic and his colleagues, some of their amendments, do not comply with the relevant provisions of the Budgetary System Act and that is the problem. It is the right of the Committee to give an opinion on whether some amendments are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, as is the right of the Assembly to amend or refuse. I don't see anything controversial about it. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41735	All you have to do is give me the basis, because the president has informed me that he needs a word to get Alexander Jerkov's MP and that Mr. Zivkovic has no conditions for replication. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I am mentioned twice by name and last name. ) (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Me too. Wrongly interpreted. Still, since I've taken over the presidency from now on, I have to ask. Mr. Martinovic, do me a favor, did you mention Mr. Zivkovic's name and last name? Just tell me yes or no. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Yes, I mentioned Mr. Zivkovic, but not in a negative context, as well as Mr. Đurisic. I thank you, no matter what the mention is. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41736	Thank you very much. I asked a question in the absence of a respected colleague, President of the Assembly, why was the amendment to Article 7 of this Law declared on the Committee on the Constitution and the legislation unconstitutional? I didn't get the answer now. About the scribbling mentioned by a respected colleague, the president of the assembly said yesterday when we were waiting for the session to continue. You can look at it in the stenogram, where she said – we are waiting because the chairman of the Constitution and legislation had something to do with the pencil according to the decision that had been made. So don't accuse me of it, look in the stenogram, and I accept any evidence. We can do a polygraph on that. The other thing, it would be very nice to have your board's opinion, where you're president, if it weren't in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, the procedure, see why. It is not a decision for you to gather there and vote what you like or don't like, but it must be said – that amendment is not in line with the Constitution, the laws, the Rules of Procedure, I don't know what it is, and that's why we get it in the report. All it says is that it doesn't comply with the Constitution. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: That's what the Rules of Procedure says. ) Check the Rules of Procedure, so we don't have a dialogue right now. You've been in power for four years, if someone made a bad Rules of Procedure, you change it, it's not a question. So we need to know as people who write amendments with very good intentions, in large numbers, that you rarely declare something unconstitutional, and that's why there's more reason to know what led you to that decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41737	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. For the sake of complete truth, I was present, the president informed the MPs that there had to be more waiting, that the current chairman of the board had to correct something with a pencil and wait for it to be printed so that there could then be a distribution in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. So for the sake of truth, this is absolutely accurate information. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. What makes you think you're right? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I was mentioned by my colleague Martinović, first name and last name. Name and last name of you? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes, he just confirmed it. ) You have the word, MP Marko Djurisic, two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41738	So much so that there are no double arches. Anybody mentioned here seems to have two witnesses to prove themselves, because it's not enough that I tell you I'm mentioned. I guess I hear it right. My colleague Martinovic did not explain to me in his 12 minutes of discussion what was in my amendment against the Constitution. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: I legal system. ) And the legal system. If I predict that one part of the amendment is deleted because I believe that dedicated and non-purpose transfers cannot be part of the AP Vojvodina budget. Because these are revenues belonging to municipalities in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government. Even the government gives me the right because it says that these revenues, that they cannot budget the AP Vojvodina, that the Law on the financing of local self-government does not deal with the budget of the AP Vojvodina and that this income is original and income... (Veroljub Arsic, from the place: Not original. It's not original, I'm sorry. The income of local self-government, and you artificially add it to the AP Vojvodina budget to reach at least 7%. What's against the Constitution? If that's contrary to the Constitution, I apologize, then this whole member is against the Constitution, because this member provides at least 7% of the budget for the AP Vojvodina. That's how I interpret it. You can interpret it differently, but it's just a matter of interpretation. There's no evidence. The minister himself said -- there's no one place, but we all add it up to over 8%. Give us that bill once. Don't let anyone pick it up without us seeing it here. We vote this, we believe first that there is no 7% here, and second budgets, transfers, dedicated, non-purpose transfers to local self-government units under the Law on the financing of local self-government cannot be part of the AP Vojvodina budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41739	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. You know very well that there are no double arches. In the same case, I would ask you, did you mention it, because often MPs feel that they are mentioned by misreading their discussion. Thank you. Now you've given the opportunity to mention Mr. Martinovic, he'll have to get Miss Jerkov's replica first. [[Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: When will my replica come to order?]] I thought it was an amendment, please. The word is Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, a replica of Mr. Martinovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41740	Thank you, Mr. Becic. So Article 157. Law establishing the education and training system of point 4. – the RS budget provides funds for salaries, fees and allowances for primary and secondary school staff. On my question, if that's what it says in the Law on the Foundations of the Education System, why pay for primary and secondary school employees in the AP Vojvodina budget, Mr Martinovic answers that the Capital Fund has robbed the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. So, Mr. Martinovic first needs to know that of course he will be saddened for what he said and every time someone from the SNS calls anyone a thief, a criminal, a mental patient, etc. He'll be sued... (Alexander Martinovic throws out of place. ) Now you will be sued again by Mr. Martinovic and every time...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41741	Miss Jerkov, don't speak directly to the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41742	I can't allow MPs, Mr. Becic to conduct investigations here. They can't make judgments, they can't muddle people because they don't have anything else to say. So, where did the salary for primary and secondary education employees which explicitly states that they are part of the RS budget, how did they come from in the AP Vojvodina budget? That painting schools and rebuilding toilets in schools is not a capital investment, let someone muster up the courage to tell Mr. Vukic, because he set it up as his mission to rescue children in primary and secondary schools in Serbia, all claiming to visit every school. Well, when Mr. Vukic does that, then it's the first time in the history of the world that someone rebuilds schools, and when government of the AP Vojvodina does, it's a worthless robbery. So every time, Mr. Becic, tell your colleagues, when someone...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41743	Time. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Replication to Mr. Djurisic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41744	The truth is, Mr. Pajtic has already sued me. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place, will do it again.) All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41745	Please don't throw Miss Jerkov away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41746	They'll sue me again. I don't mind. I just hope I don't get shot. If this was 2000 years ago, he'd probably shoot me. Since he can't shoot anymore, he can't arrest, so he can beat himself up. Let him sue. It's not a problem. Mr. Vukic said the Serbian government would restore toilets in primary and secondary schools, that it would restore toilets in homes of health, hospitals, clinical centres, but never called it capital investments. That's what you were baptized in Vojvodina – capital investments and in doing so, capital investments or investments have never actually happened. They've never even been realized. The money's been spent, and the work's done nothing. We showed you pictures of the "Hetherland" castle in New Vienna. Now I ask you, it is not a dispute, Bojan Pajtic will sue me, he can sue me 50 times, but whether the parents of children distracted in the development will sue Bojan Pajtic, Igor Rebu, Milivoa Grebalova, etc. Because their children have nowhere to be placed. As for the observations on the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we have the right as a Committee to assess whether any amendments are in accordance with the Constitution and what some colleagues in the former regime are forgetting – the legal system. So, not only with the Constitution, but also with the legal system. The legal system consists of all laws and sublegal general acts in the Republic of Serbia that must be harmonised with each other, i.e. they must be complementary because the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, which is ultimately mentioned today in the presentations of some colleagues, gives the last word on whether something is in line with the Constitution or not. You have a decision by the Constitutional Court that says that the legal rules in the Republic of Serbia must be harmonised with each other and the Constitutional Court takes care of the unity of the legal order and takes care of that and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. We appreciate whether something is in line with the Constitution, but whether or not something is in line with the legal system, an integral part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia is also the Law on the Budgetary System. Your amendments are...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41747	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41748	I'm done. ... whether they are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system because they are not in conformity with the relevant provisions of the Budgetary System Act. I made that very clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41749	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. I apologize, since I had a consult with the secretary so I haven't followed the time, these 35 seconds will be denied to you by the time of the parliamentary group. The Republic has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Veroljub Arsic, for mentioning the party president and prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, painting is ongoing maintenance. Let me get this straight. If you change your carpentry, floors, tiles, plasters, it's investment maintenance, and that's how bookkeeping is recorded. When it comes to disputed article 7, the people you're attacking us for this article 7? Do you think we made it up? No, she wrote it in the DS and Boris Tadic budget. Are you saying it's not like that? Would you like to take a look at the 2008 budget, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 budget? You've brought that budget. What do you want to change now? You have set a framework that is funded by the AP Vojvodina and while you were in power, your party, you can nod all you want, that was good for you. Now all of a sudden you're not okay with this article 7 is prescribed from all of the previous budgets that you voted for. What's wrong? Shall we take a look? Let's take a look. The problem is that you keep telling the truth, and you've lived and ruled for so many years. You now pretend that you are fighters for the autonomy of the Vojvodina, you are reducing your amendments to the funds provided for by the AP Vojvodina. I don't know where this is going. You said we lived better. We lived worse and worse. You promised 200,000 jobs, you stole 200,000 jobs from the people. So that's what the entire ideologies of DS and all the parties that came out of it are based on. You can threaten as many lawsuits as you want. Just as you've been working with the Vojvodina Development Fund, he's talking about what kind of people you are and you're giving everyone the right to suspect it's a crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41751	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Replica. You have no right, Miss Jerkov, because you are not an authorised representative of the DS. There's no authorized representative in the O.R. Here you go, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41752	Let me start with the last mission. I'm just checking here, in 2011, the budget in the same text, the number of members is different, this is Article 6, since we added Article 6, and today's 7 is exactly the same. In 2011, the exact text was in 2011 and today. Secondly, now let me explain to you why... Alexander Jerkov throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41753	Miss Jerkov, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41754	You're essentially wrong because in the RS budget under the finance ministry under the 463, it's split up 16.0, it's 33.3 billion dollars in support of local self-government. It leads to us, it will arrive at them, but as with Serbia, local self-government is consolidated at the level of the Republic, and Vojvodina has local self-governments that are consolidated there. At the level of the general state, all transfers will be cancelled and only one place will be at the level of keeping records, as Article 7 says and in the Budgetary System Act says – donations and transfers enter the income of an appropriate level. Just as Serbia does and if the municipality receives some transfer, it is conducted under the budget of the Republic of Serbia and also applies to Vojvodina. Look at the laws, look at the budgeting manuals. It's a rule that applies everywhere in the world. It couldn't have been any other way. The other thing is, you mentioned education. If you look under the heading – education, you will see that there are 463 transfers in the same way as basic education, secondary education and universities. So it's all documented here line by line entirely accurate. So there's no dilemma about going from a constitutional provision that's not accurate when it comes to the provisions of the budget that are very precise, it knows exactly what goes into transfers that form an integral part of the income of the AP Vojvodina. Apart from these transfers, this outing of you that there is some independent obligation of the Republic of Serbia besides that, there is absolutely no basis in law, nor in the practice of budgeting with us or in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41755	Thank you. Do you want to pick up the amendment, miss? You have no right to a replica. [[Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: No, replica.]] On behalf of Chapter II and Article 8 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41756	Article 8 deals with what the costs of this budget are. I'd like the minister to listen to what I'm about to say. It's proof of our claim that this budget is not developmental, it's not social, it's... I don't want to bother the minister. So, evidence of this is that the reduced costs for transfers, for compulsory social security by more than 5%, for social protection by almost 8%, for capital investments are almost 15%. And where are they increased? They were increased in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, from 20 million to 22 million. Look at the wonders, most of the favors per contract. That's 11 million. Well, then in the First Vice President's Office for Foreign Affairs, contract favors -- 10 million. Then on for the vice president, for the minister of traffic, construction and infrastructure - seven million. I'm sorry that the Minister of Emergency is not here without portfolios, but may the Minister of Finance be able to explain to me how this ministry and this cabinet, the cabinet of the Minister without portfolio, is said by the people "Minister for Nothing", for emergency situations there are costs of nine million for buildings and construction facilities? How does a ministry that doesn't have a portfolio that doesn't even appear in emergency situations, but that's where different people come in, spends nine million on buildings and other buildings? Of course, there are seven million on the contract. Services under contract are money laundering for the people of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41757	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr. Becic, the Honorable Mrs. Joksimovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, contained in Article 8. The draft budget law extends to 116 pages of the draft budget law. I have three questions, on the matter for Mr and Mrs Minister here, Minister Sertic, Minister Vujovic and Minister Joksimovic. Minister Sertic, the policy of subsidising investors continues, we see, and on the basis of Article 8. Mr. Sertić, has the government prepared a methodology for assessing the effects of these subsidies or are you throwing the money into the fire, Minister Sertic? Minister Vujovic, the draft budget provides for 404 positions to be spent on the so-called so-called budget. Contract-based services. 404 positions, gentlemen. It doesn't say what services they are and what purpose they are. Minister Vujovicu, is that called intransparency? That's a question for you. Question for Minister Joksimovic. It is the fourth day of the budget marathon, respected Mrs Joksimovic, in which we participate here, which is the office, in the House of our National Assembly. We have convinced everyone during the debate in the previous days that the uncreditability, non-transparency, arbitration, irresponsibility and abandonment of reforms are the most precise descriptions of the proposed 2016 budget, Mrs Joksimovic. I ask the question - is the Minister in whose competence European affairs, whose competence are European standards, supports such a non-European budget, respected gentlemen? I repeat, non-credentiality, non-transparentity, arbitration, irresponsibility and abandonment of reforms. I ask Mrs Joksimovic to say if she supports it here today in our National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41759	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41760	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, you don't have to listen to anything. Therefore, it is not your obligation to listen to the most famous vineyard, my fellow farmer. It's a waste of time. In his speech, he said that, behold, the cabinet of the Prime Minister costs 22 million dinars. So 22 million dinars cost the cabinet government. During his reign, the cabinet of the president of the local community cost so much, provided he was from his party, his party at the time. Furthermore, the cabinet of the Prime Minister costs 22 million dinars. Dear citizens, 22 million dinars cost you the current Prime Minister. The current Prime Minister is costing you 22 million dinars. In 2007, my fellow citizens, you who will go to the elections and I know that you will not vote for my fellow farmer from Vračar, for Mr. Winedelje, for Mr. Vindelec, you dear citizens to know that in November 2007, the former Prime Minister of the Government for doubtful vineyards in Frust Mountain, in Krcedin, who was planted in the spring of 2007, although the land he rented in November 2007, so the one who created in November spring, in that year, cost us three times less – 22 million dinars in the incentives he took to buy an apartment on Vrakar, and the current Prime Minister for his work for the whole year with the entire cabinet, has three times less – 22 million dinars. So, my fellow citizens, decide to be permanently against the vineyard, the winemaker, my fellow farmer from Vracar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41761	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41762	Dear MPs, a month ago we were here in this same House discussing the Investment Act and discussing everything we found in the ministry a year and two or three months ago when we entered. I explained and then I gave you the data that we signed in the previous period and what the subsidy policy looked like primarily by foreign companies in the period until 2013. The result is that we broke 90 contracts of 273. We had to break up because first of all there was no control over the work of the company, nor was there anyone for the single dinar that the state had mandated in that period to control what these companies were doing, whether they were meeting their obligations, whether they had employed the number of people, whether they had given them the right salary, and especially not whether investment contracts were made. Unfortunately, we had to break up a large number of contracts because, among other things, it bears the responsibility and part of the government that represents the opposition today and criticises the current Investment and Incentives Act that we give. Do I have to tell you that a huge number of these companies gave as a guarantee for the money they received guarantees from banks that failed in the previous period, and the "Vojvodine Development Banks" and "Universal Banks" and "Agrobanks"? Today we talk about a subsidy policy with someone who participated actively in the fact that a huge number of businesses don't do their job, that they get money from the government register, and that they don't return the result that was agreed on, I don't think there's any comment. We, not in the rules, but in the very Investment Act very clearly and precisely described what it is from the conditions that it takes today for the investor to do and I believe that there will be still time to talk about it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41763	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41764	Dear Mr Pavicevic, you have opened several important topics that are not always about some technical things that you often know you talk about when it comes to European standards, but also a few political qualifications. Since I deal with standards and political qualifications, it's a good thing I'm here to answer your questions. You know, it's one measure and an ex-post, so, and ex-ante audits or checks, let's say -- checks, I won't say audits, it's a bad word, but budget quality checks. Why? Because they are both control and audit standards - not only European, but international standards. It carries with it chapter 32 on financial control. So it's good to be able to tell you that by opening that chapter, and already by the fact that we are ready to open this chapter, we will show responsibility in the management of public finances. If public finances are seen anywhere, they can be seen in the country's budget. So, in that sense, don't worry about European and international standards, I think it'll be all right. On the other hand, you have noticed that the objectives of the government that are reflected in this budget are precisely to bring the public sector to the necessary extent, i.e. the measure that the citizens need, since this is one of the new economic governess standards, which is one of the most important criteria currently, therefore, which is also predominant perhaps in the EU. So good economic governance. For this, otherwise, we may not have mentioned it so far, we will also receive EU support through sectoral and budget support to the public administration and public finance reform of around 80m euros in grants, therefore, as direct budgetary support. Of course, there's something more the finance minister can fill me in and explain to you, if you have any misunderstandings. Also, just days before the budget was set, we adopted a programme of public finance reforms at the government, and it is also planned to prepare another important document called the Economic Reform Programme. Last year, we wrote the economic reform programme for the first time. It was very well assessed by the European Commission, doing it again this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41765	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41766	But simply, the budget that you think is non-transparent, I didn't understand all the qualifications you've given, but in any case, it's passed ex-ante, but also ex-post, therefore, some kind of checking of European standards, and more than that, international standards. And it'll only show when we open chapter 32 that we'll have audit and international standards. I'm sorry if I made it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41767	I thank you, Mrs Joksimovic, your time is up, I must interrupt you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Pavicevich. Mrs Joksimovic only explained your question. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The People's MP Nenad Canak submitted to the 8th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kostreš. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Mr Dejan Chapo has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. He's not in the O.R. Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Stojsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Mr Jovan Markovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Micunovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 8th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41768	Thank you. Another one of the series of amendments that tries to provide 7% for the AP Vojvodina budget, guaranteed by the Constitution, noting that, although it is unimaginable to all governments, the Constitution writes - at least 7%, which means it can be more than 7%. But I think, and that is where we agree, Mr Vujovic, and Mr Arsic, that this problem will be resolved when the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina is passed. Mr. Arsic says – it was the same old age. You're partly right. I say it wasn't the same because at the time there was a dispute over whether the income or expenditure side of the budget, and you said -- in your government, I apologize, I said Krstic was the finance minister, in fact Dinkic was then your finance minister when it was adopted, that he wasn't even 7% or income, but 7% of the tax revenues, which is even 7% of the income, which is impossible to write in the budget. The government of Vojvodina has applied to the Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality. The Constitutional Court has never called, unlike when he hurried to say it's okay to cut pensioners' pensions they earned. So it's not true it's the same. And even if it was, it wasn't right back then. The problem is there is no law on financing the AP Vojvodina. You'll say the DS didn't adopt it. Well, as you might have noticed, a lot of people, or most people in the DS, didn't fit, so they changed some of the DS things a little bit, and they're not trying to defend every bad move in the way that you do, justifying that someone before you was the same. We suggest redistributing funds, so the AP Vojvodina budget still accounts for 7%, so it doesn't fake some stuff, so it seems to be 7%, and I'm guessing you won't accept it, although I call on you to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41769	Thank you. The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41770	I have the right to a replica, I'm mentioned by name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41771	Here you go. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41772	You see, by adopting this Law on the financing of the powers of the AP Vojvodina, neither 2008 nor 2009 nor 2010, nor 2011 nor 2012, and now we are already in 2015. Since 2014, however, the government of the Republic of Serbia has no one to negotiate with on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. That's the problem. A colleague, Martinovic, has now read. The current government of the province has the confidence of only 5% of the population of the AP Vojvodina. With whom does the Government of the Republic of Serbia negotiate? With 5%? If we pass such a law where we negotiated with 5%, they'll ask us after the next election that other government in Vojvodina what we did and who we negotiated with. The problem is also Bojan Pajtic and the Provincial Government which, behold, for the third year, all the citizens of Vojvodina have suffered that desire to preserve the gram of power for another month. The people of Vojvodina have been appointed hostage to their politics, their interests and their small part of power. So, if you want to solve the problem, let Mr Pajtic make a statement to the Regional Parliament, to call the elections, go to the polls, the citizens say what anyone thinks about who and then the new government that has trust and legitimacy with citizens negotiates with the Serbian government about law-making. Like this, I don't think we have anyone to talk to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41773	Time. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my honored farmers, especially you who live in Vojvodina, let's see what the missus has suggested. Mr. Minister, she suggested that the agricultural divide be reduced from 40.5 billion to 37.5, that agriculture get three billion less. So, this is the amendment's proposal. It also suggested, my dear farmers in Vojvodina and Serbia, that we split up for incentives, and two days we were accused that we, behold, reduced incentives, were not correct, the planned funds were higher than this year. But, look at the wonders, the proposer suggested that farmers in incentives, instead of 24.2 billion, get 22.2 billion -- two billion less. My dear peasants, to see where your money is. As someone lives in Vojvodina, and most of all that savings would refer to peasants in Vojvodina, including those in Serbia, he wants your money not to end up in your pockets, but in some other pockets. That behavior is hypocritical. This is not the first time, the proposing party and its party have otherwise participated in the signing of an SAA that was bad and none of the members have signed such a bad SAA after excessive liberalisation, which simply cleaned up our agriculture during the previous period because they did not prepare the country. Today, the referendum calls for the international agreement to be unconstitutionally annulled because it must not be subject to the referendum. It is to expect tomorrow that if we adopt its amendment and reduce the funds for farmers to expect, knowing the kind of politician it is, that if we save today that next year it rises up, sits on a tractor and comes to rebel against the smaller funds for agriculture itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41775	Thank you. The 8th Amendment with correction was brought together by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The People's Messenger Sabina Dazdarevic. Here you go, Mrs. Dazdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41776	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we propose, with our amendment, that several things be included in the budget of the Republic of Serbia that are important for the development of the Sandzak region. With our amendment, we propose that several things be included in the budget of the Republic of Serbia that are important for the development of the Sandzak region. First of all, it is about the budget of the national councils of national minorities. When we talk about national councils, national councils are as well as MPs are elected in direct direct elections, and in the budget they are classified as an NGO. We believe that changes must be made urgently in the budget in the names when the national ones already have to be called the authorities of minority self-government, not NGOs, and that 21 national councils are allocated to the budget of the Republic of Serbia as much as they belong to them. At a session held on 19 November 2015, the National Council of National Minorities held in Ekko was concluded and requested by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to provide for 0.05% of the total budget planned, in this sense we propose, and we have proposed the amount above. Furthermore, we recall that there are 46 economically underdeveloped municipalities living in Serbia, which account for national incomes below half the average, the republican average. In Sandzak, where the Bosniaks currently live, citizens face a high unemployment rate, and in some municipalities, such as the Tutin municipality, the rate is over 60%. Electroenergy and road infrastructure are in catastrophic condition from these, and for many other reasons that are purely existential nature we ask for funds to enter into the budget of the Republic of Serbia for a final and complete reconstruction, the regional road Novi Pazar – Tutin, as well as the road Novi Pazar – Sjenica which are terribly in poor condition, and especially when we talk about the road of Novi Pazar – Tutin, which is repeatedly interrupted because of the slopes and slides, which on a daily basis uses several thousand people, mainly students and students, as well as employees who use this route daily to reach their schools, colleges or jobs. Working on road infrastructure and providing funds for the development of project documentation in the field of municipal and electricity infrastructure, would create preconditions for such projects to compete with EU pre-accession funds. This is important because municipalities do not have enough resources, i.e. they do not have the opportunity to finance the development of these project documentation or to finance these projects, and without projects, they cannot get the funds that already exist in EU funds. By including our proposals in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we would show that we have the will to train the Sandzak region in such a way that we can be equal in the capacity to develop, to be equal in opportunities to attract domestic and foreign investments, i.e. to be equal with citizens of Serbia from other regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41777	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41778	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to try to add a little bit to what my colleague Dazadarevic already said. You see, the budget is not wanted, but there are still increases in all parts of both incomes and expenditures. One basic logic was that this growth was also followed by a position for national councils of national minorities. Considering all the specificities and problems facing national councils. Now there is also the problem of national councils outside the territory of Vojvodina which are in a far more subordinate position, because they do not have institutions to accompany other sources. Here, the activities of national councils are exclusively reduced to budgetary financing. So, in my opinion, it was basic logic to at least monitor the growth of the budget. I repeat the same situation that we discussed here the day before yesterday that unfortunately in the last three years, without any justification, there has been a drastic reduction in the funding of the national council of the Albanian national minority, orientating 30% because, in my opinion, it is absolutely unacceptable to count Albanians in Serbia, from those ridiculous 5,000 out of 62,000 whom we have been treated by the authorities for three years. The assessment showed that despite the fact that unfortunately in these 11 years, tens of thousands of Albanians in the Republic of Serbia compared to 2002, what should be a more serious analysis of why this is happening, but surely it was always known that there was no such drastic decline of the number from 62,000 to 5,800. With this, it was absolutely my opinion that the country itself was compromised, and this was also pointed out by the Council of Europe's advisory board in its third opinion on Serbia, in which it is very clear, decadently said that this problem of establishing the right number of Albanians should not in any event lead to a reduction in the level of Albanian law in Serbia, which, unfortunately, has taken place. That is why I am going back to what little time Mrs Dazadrević said, that it was still necessary to monitor growth in the opposition, which is also foreseen in the budget for national councils of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41779	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and the magistrate Dr Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41780	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, ministers from the government, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, we have proposed an amendment to Article 8 with the idea of forming a budgetary position to pay off the outstanding obligations of social enterprises under the judgments carried out to seek out a working relationship. It's about what it's about. From the current budget reserve, my colleague Ninoslav and I proposed that the billion and 100 be removed and transferred to the position of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and not the economic qualification of 472 where they would change the name. It is called the original social security compensation from the budget, we added the obligations created on the basis of the rights achieved on the basis of work achieved in social enterprises from 2002 to 30 June 2011. With the basic idea to propose and start solving problems over 80,000 workers of the Republic of Serbia, over 4,000 of whom work and live in Nis, i.e. They were EI Holding workers, builders, MIN Holding, Djuka-Dinić and other companies not to list everything now, because I don't have enough time. Low MPs, all of them, in a conversation with the workers of these companies, agreed about ten days ago to support the initiative. We submitted an initiative to the government, we all signed it. I also asked the Prime Minister yesterday, i.e. the day before yesterday, when this will be settled, and here we are now proposing an amendment to the budget, to enable us to form a budgetary position and allow the multi-annual problems of these people to be solved. I note that in 2015, the government formed a working group to solve this problem. If we accidentally disrupted something in the budget, I suggest the minister to give the proposal from which positions it should be removed, and that can be put into the budget through the Committee. It is important to solve the problem and to form a budget position that will solve this multi-annual problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41781	Thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic and Goran Ciric. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41782	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, the amendment of MP Goran Ciric and I is aimed at solving a multi-year problem of workers who have unsettled earnings, and this is one of the many-year problems that Nis workers have and that is 4,500, but also workers in Serbia, about 80,000. This is one big problem. Almost all the MPs from Nis, 12 of us had a joint meeting with the Mayor of Nis, Mr Perisic and representatives of Niš companies. We have made one, in my opinion, a very good agreement that we have all signed as MPs a letter of intent and an initiative sent to the Republic Government to support the resolution of this problem and that workers, who have unsettled earnings, are allowed to pay off those profits in some period. The amendment is only in order to find a way to find funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget to pay off profits to Nis workers. There are about 4,500 of them, and at the Serbian level, 80,000. So, with the amendment, we are looking for a solution to the problem that starts in 2002, it takes years back, and the workers of Nis and the workers of Serbia are asking what they have earned to pay them, so they can pay their bills, so they can realise some needs with the money they have earned. This is one good thing where the MPs of all the Nis political parties unite around one goal is to protect the interests of workers and I think that in your ministry, and also in the Republic Government, you should have hearing. The task force you formed to give some results as soon as possible and to make these workers reconcile those salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41783	Thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41784	Thank you. The amendment proposed that the budget of the co-ordination body increase by another hundred million dinars next year by 60 million dinars for capital investments for three municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja and 40 million for social contributions in these municipalities. The justification of our proposal is based on the fact that it is the most underdeveloped municipalities at the level of the Republic, with an unemployment rate of over 70%. However, we see that there was no understanding. It was expected that the government would reject this, especially because of yesterday's speech by the foreign minister, whose performance with a dose of cynicism and racism compared to Albanians, enlightened us with new knowledge, which we were not aware that we had ten times more rights than we deserve. However, for less or more money, for less or more rights, we will not kneel. In our fight for the rights of Albanians of the Presevo Valley, but of course by European standards. Finally, I have a question for Minister Joksimovic. She mentioned the earlier that an IPA fund initiative was launched with Macedonia for cross-border co-operation, but you did not mention whether an initiative to open the Malian crossing of Miratovac – Lojana, which, I think, should be one of the preconditions for these cross-border co-operation. I didn't get an answer from the Secretary-General, although I asked this question on October 1st this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41785	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41786	Mr. Chairman, I would add to this amendment that in the efforts of the government's representatives here, they spoke extensively and very extensively, and the whole point is to make the budget a developmental one. These proposals for the position of the co-ordination body do not go in this direction, especially these two items concerning subsidies to private enterprises, where there was a reduction from 48 to 40 million dinars and social protection fees from budgets from 43 to 40. It's all right that they've been abolished, not the reduced positions on terms under contract, specialized services, the service of a coordinating body that, right to tell you, I have no idea how they've spent all these years. But I don't think it was really necessary to reduce these two positions that were absolutely in some way a bit of hope. If it started three years ago, precisely with these subsidies, which have proved to be insufficient so far, because we do not have an indicator that there has been some tangible increase in employment or a reduction in the huge unemployment rate. Now I don't know what logic, based on which analysis has led to the conclusion that they need to be reduced. That's why I've been talking and looking in principle, all the time I've been asking for it to be analyzed. If for 15, 16 years a government body has worked, it has appointed to clearly see what the effects are. How much this functioning, this government authority, affects the change in the situation in this area. It continues that we have this catastrophic situation that the unemployment rate is certainly over 70, we don't know exactly where it came from. Take a closer look at the investment investment analysis for each year. I was running analyses at the time when the coordinating body had twice the budget and then we had a situation that about three to 3,600 dinars per capita were investment investments in this area, in these municipalities, and five to six times lower than the national average, and that's where the national income is reflected. Unfortunately, it is also five to six times lower than the national average. What's the point now? That it is good - it is not good, that the situation is bad – it is bad, but tell me this reduction which is the message? Whether too much has been achieved and logic is now, it is not necessary to follow this trend that the budget for the whole country predicts or that the government has raised its hands so that nothing concrete in this area can work. I wouldn't want this other logic to be present in this case. But anyway, it would have to be far more serious here, I said that day, not to allow one state body, look at the term itself – the service of the coordinating body formed outside the structure of the government, and we are asking the government for help. We never asked the government to form an organ in Belgrade that would deal with us, in the name of us, it was overcome, it was in the 19th century. Let's leave these manners and this treatment, all the time in the coordination body, that was the idea, and look at it in the government's decision of April 2009, where it is explicitly said that they will be built except for operational and medium-term programmes, which will be made up by working groups with representatives of three municipalities and competent ministries and of that, absolutely, it remains a letter on paper. Nothing in practice has been achieved. So we now have this situation so we don't know what we're on, we don't even know if there is any, just the existence of that coordination body, in what function? If what it says here is true that they are strategically important for the state, then give us the same way to treat ourselves, to really give strategic importance to the development of these municipalities, but the situation as it is absolutely no good for us. The Deputy Prime Minister can do whatever he wants to interpret here. I can tell that his atmosphere was like the election was coming. I'd only ask him not to make arrests like in 2012, two days before the election. And we have absolutely not heard from a single Deputy Prime Minister a single word of what the Government intends to provide for a serious approach in the development of these municipalities, so that we can finally come to the fact that this lag behind, that it is still not deepening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41787	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome the students of the Faculty of Law, Public Administration and the security of the University of John Nezbit in Belgrade, who are currently monitoring a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41788	Thank you. The answer to a question about cross-border co-operation with the Republic of Macedonia. First of all, I see that here often, I don't know how many times I've heard this question, and here I answered the day before, it seems to me that we've launched an initiative, but I feel like I'm constantly treating this issue in a politicised way. But I have to explain, the border crossing is therefore not a prerequisite for using cross-border co-operation, i.e. to establish a cross-border co-operation mechanism. The prerequisite is the goodwill that we and on the other hand Macedonia have shown, and that is why we want this joint letter signed as competent ministers, so in the case of Macedonia it is the Deputy Prime Minister, so to the European Commission to program it by April 2016 so that we can withdraw funds from cross-border co-operation in 2016. So, the border crossing issue, possibly, which you have asked, is first in the jurisdiction of the two resolution ministries, the MUP, and on the other hand, the issue could possibly be a project within the programme. So that's a question that can be, it certainly is not a prerequisite for launching a cross-border co-operation mechanism. Therefore, goodwill is a prerequisite, goodwill exists. Then local self-government will compete with certain projects on the one hand and on the other hand, the European Commission delegation decides which projects are most prepared. That is the answer to the second part of the question that the MP, one of the MPs, has asked, how local self-government can attract more European funds. You know how, it is a problem of co-financing and pre-financing, we're aware of it, we're not questioning it at all, and we're looking for a way to find a way to make it easier, but it's very often a situation that doesn't actually have mature and good projects. Everything is at the level of the idea, the idea of funding EU projects is not enough, a mature project with all accompanying technical, preparatory materials and documents is needed. Therefore, we are working on it, we are aware of the problems some of the poorer municipalities may have, but I must tell you that even poorer municipalities if they have enough capacity and if they are really serious about project preparation, they very often implement EU-funded projects, even better sometimes than some larger municipalities. Therefore, it is capacity, and as far as Macedonia is concerned, I say, the border crossing is not a prerequisite, it can only be a topic possibly one of the projects under the programme and there is no need for politicisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41789	I thank Mrs Joksimovic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41790	Thank you very much for running this detail... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Can I talk? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You can, I only chair. Just for a little while. So, we're the way the budget is designed for this year, it's been based on real achievement for 10 months, plus an estimate in two months and an estimate of individual categories that don't have a permanent character. In the case of Chapter 303 of point 13 concerning the Government of Serbia's Body Coordination Service for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities, 414 million were in the budget last year. This year, after 10 months, there were 335 million and zero gains on capital expenditures. Our services, applying the formula we applied to everything, projected that capital expenditure, that this project would be delayed and that it would not be realized and that we were under pressure to streamline capital expenditures, we projected 20 million that there would be no project this year, and 335 million were projected at 382 million. In this context, one single category that I want to comment on, that's category, that's account 463, that's transfers made at government level. There was 250 million there last year. We've secured 256. So, as part of the methodology we applied, we respected that category that we directly control, we increased. Maybe the total amount isn't good, but it's a warning to everyone. When programs are not implemented, they are applied. When we're faced with the conditions of fiscal consolidation, we haven't evaluated at the level, it's within section three, we haven't entered, we can't get into every detail. I hear you, I understand, we can talk when they do, especially if Capex needs to come back, we can talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41791	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41792	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I believe that Article 158 7 has been injured. It discusses how the discussion is conducted in particular and says – The legislator, or the authorised representative of the bill, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular on this basis cannot be longer than three hours. Now you've given your word to a minister and minister. In total, they spoke for four and a half minutes. So, contrary to this stance, which says that an authorised promoter, and in this case these are all ministers, as the prime minister informed us, can speak up to two minutes, one or more, but up to two minutes. Why am I saying this? This is not the first time and somewhere in principle or silently in fact we have decided to tolerate this, but you have done a very unprincipled thing at the beginning of the debate on amendments to Article 8, by reading all those MPs who were not there, five by one, so that they could not discuss their amendments... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41793	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I had an amendment to the 28th division, and I was at the parliamentary club, I had some obligations. You did not allow me to discuss, and you allow ministers to violate the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to turn on the microphone first to explain it to me in two minutes, and then if you're going to run the session, then you have to respect the Rules of Procedure from the beginning to the end. We won't tolerate it here, because you're making it impossible for us to talk about the amendments we've been making the nights before this session, and that's not right. I can be tolerated if you want to give the ministers the opposite of the Rules of Procedure and this wasn't the first time you've done this, I haven't reacted, but after this procedure, I will react every time. It's not right to do that. Give me a chance to talk about the amendments we've been making here for the night doing something. It's really not right. I thank you, Mr. Djurishich. Mr Vujovic has not responded to a large number of amendments. I think what the minister who submitted the bill has to say is very important for the citizens of Serbia. Also, Mr. Djurisic, you want to tell Serbian citizens that MPs have a lot of work to do, not to sit in the Assembly and in the large National Assembly hall when a budget is passed that is the most important law in one year and important for Serbian citizens and I believe all 250 MPs should sit in the hall. If I can, Mr. Djurishic, sit 99% of the time, I expect that from other MPs. So there is no more important job for me at this point than the 2016 budget of the Republic of Serbia. I think all MPs who have amendments should sit in the hall, listen to all the amendments and explain their amendments. If you think you should go into the O.R. only when your amendment is on the agenda, I think it's wrong, but it's your right. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: To vote, you did not ask. Is that what I'm supposed to say? ) Yes, the Assembly will declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41794	Thank you. I will add to this earlier, on the subject of the previous amendment that as regards the border crossing with Macedonia, Minister Joksimovic, there is one decision by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in April 2005, which should have opened three border crossings and one in the territory of the municipality of Presevo. This shop is open, and none of these border crossings have worked so far in Presevo. One that has been run for, and what has been done and reconstructed, a very important road that has been financed by both the government and the USID and reached the border with Macedonia. For a time, there was a reason that the Macedonian side had not prepared the infrastructure. Since last year and it's done. So, in addition to what you said, there is still a basis for that decision, which you see is more than ten years old, so in this respect you should see with Macedonia where the problems that one of those three border crossings has not yet survived, and here we know from the earlier situation, before the separation of states, that buses have been trafficked ten times a day, because they are populated areas from both sides of the border, so that they are filled with economic and all other purposes. As for Minister Vujovic again, I understood why there was, for example, a reduction in the position of subsidies to private firms. But, you see, the problem is basically how the coordination body works. What has not been achieved by the reconstruction of the co-ordination body for Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedju in 2009, and that we had a coordination group on the issue of economy. Three representatives of Presevo municipalities, Bujanovac, Medvedja, with three representatives of the economy ministry, were scheduled to work together to make operational plans. It's not there. That's why we're getting into this situation so that the most underdeveloped municipalities can't accomplish what the state approves of them. And if that didn't happen, that's what I've been talking about all this time. Either it needs to be analized by that coordinating body that no longer exists, because it only stops development, or if it should exist, that there really is, but that the effects are seen on the ground, that they are seriously done, because whoever is in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedji, whom in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedji needed service in Belgrade from people who have never worked on these jobs, instead of professional people from the ministry to deal with serious affairs. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41795	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Mirjana Dragas
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41796	Thank you. Dear President, honourable MPs, I would like to take part in the debate on the amendment that is currently being discussed from the point of view of one assessment that I do not have the feeling that any part of the draft budget law and the whole debate that has been directed in this case is nationalally defined. So we see the budget as one financial planning of income and expenditure evenly distributed to all parts of the Republic with the aim of not developing in any particular way any part of Serbia, whether it is Belgrade, whether it is Vojvodina or any other part of Serbia. What is the insistence, as I am experiencing it, is Serbia's development in one quality way based on objective opportunities, with clear goals from which the means of each item can be spent, used, as well as the way they can be created. When it comes to the development of undeveloped areas in the Republic of Serbia, I cannot accept that Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja are particularly neglected, because there is a populated Albanian national minority, and on the other hand, for example, forging the south or east of Serbia, in which the second part of the population is also belonging to other national minorities. So what the government's insistence is that all of that southern part of Serbia be equally neglected. In this case, with particular respect and respect for MPs and MPs who had previously spoken to all MPs from the region, I would simply ask that all their total energy be directed towards common goals in the development of the Serbian state and the achievement of their interests and their rights in that area, and that they are equally looking for solutions for other national minorities, because we other countries except the Serbian state do not have. If we do so, then the Albanian national minority will see the state of Serbia as the only country in which all its rights are exercised and, at the same time, respect all state laws with its behaviour and way of working. When it comes to this estimate of the population in these three municipalities, the problem, as I recall, stemmed from the non-acceptation of the census. If we go back to the real census, there won't be a need for any kind of assessment. So if we accept one such way, then there will certainly be the achievement of those other goals of the state of Serbia, which is to improve relations with all the countries in the environment, the creation of this entire Balkan area of equal and good relations, as well as the achievement of better co-existence with all the national minorities of the people of Serbia in our country, and over 20 have, I know that. Finally, I must also say that I should refer to the Deputy Prime Minister speaking about the exercise of the rights of the ethnic minority of Albanians not to be interpreted, not to speak freely, but to speak precisely on the basis of clear facts, clear data. They can be very clear and very well justified. That is why it implies even more and obliges all of us to build Serbia in a transparent way today and tomorrow, in such a way that we all respect and respect each other equally and not use ourselves, for example. I am not for those terms that are neither in the Constitution nor exist, such as Sandzak, such as Presevo Valley, which as geographical areas do not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41797	Mrs. Dragash, you must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41798	I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41799	The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic, a replica of Mr Halimi's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41800	Thank you. I wanted to respond to the previous discussion. I have to tell you, I don't understand and I have the impression that insisting on this issue of the border crossing for you is actually becoming a priority in relation to the issue of cross-border co-operation between Serbia and Macedonia. I would not like to see it that way, because it is the essence of cross-border co-operation, in fact, that this part of the territory that we have defined, on our part, Pcnijski, Jablanski and Nisavski district, by the Macedonian, Skopje and northeast regions, that they use these means of employment, social inclusion, development of tourism, cultural inclusion, environmental protection, all of which are important areas financed from European funds. I understand that the question you've asked is the question -- why so far it's not done, here we're going to look at it with the rest of the ministries, so whether it's one of the projects that can be, but I have the impression that this is becoming more important than the issue of cross-border co-operation. I don't think you should see it that way, but you should see the broader importance and overall importance of developing and establishing a mechanism for cross-border co-operation, but here's to be sure that we're also going to deal with it and see if there's any problem that's insecure or that can be part of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41801	Thank you, Mrs. Joksimovic. Mr. Halimi, you don't have your time anymore. You spent it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41802	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41803	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41804	How can I not? I'm mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41805	It's not in a negative context.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41806	Has it been 20 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41807	Fifteen minutes you have as authorized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41808	I'd like a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41809	You don't have the right to a replica, especially if the subject wasn't subject to the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted an amendment to Article 8. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41810	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to Article 8, in my opinion very important and concerns the question of cultural employees and my question of the Minister of Finance, and it would be the Minister of Culture that is there, since, unlike us, it seems that ministers do not have the obligation to sit in the hall all the time and follow the parliamentary amendments, which is why the only part of the public sector that has not received this, I would say, a minimal or miserable increase in profits or the return of that part of the earnings taken from them by the previous decision on the reduction of wages? This decision is so incomprehensible that it is the least part of the public sector, which in this part of the sector employs about 2,300 employees and would total a budget to increase the salary of 3% of cultural employees to 56 million dinars. What's also amazing is that in the government's explanation it's impossible, because my proposal is to separate these 56 million from the public service section, which is 4 billion dinars, and the explanation is that we're going to compromise the functioning of the Public Service. So, explain to me how public service can be compromised with 3 billion and 944 million, and normally it will work with 4 billion? I am under the impression that it is a deep disrespect for cultural employees, that it is the only sector which is not respected by the decision to allocate only 1,000 dinars per month to their earnings. I asked that question on the board, I didn't get an adequate answer, so I hope I get it now, because the explanation is also really incomprehensible and I mean offensive to cultural employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41811	Thank you, Mrs. Marjanovic. I would ask Mr. Minister to declare the amendment of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on Article 8. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41812	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41813	I find that the minister, as a representative of the Government, has accepted the Committee's amendment and that this amendment becomes an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to the 8th Amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41814	The amendment I have proposed refers to Article 8 of Section 20. – The Ministry of Economy, I will not read the amendment now, but mostly the amendment provides for an increase in the amount of funds intended for programme activities, development and application of environmental protection instruments, whose purpose is to promote protection and promotion of the environment through the development and application of economic instruments for environmental protection, as well as support for civil society organisations in the realisation of projects in the field of environmental protection. As things stand now, the provision of financial resources to promote protection and improvement of the environment through the application of the laws of established economic instruments is carried out through the issue of a solution for bond fees and the payment of environmental pollution compensation. The funds provided thus serve to invest in programmes, projects and other activities in the area of preserving sustainable use of protection and promotion of the environment. We believe that the amendment proposed additional funding of 20 million dinars would contribute to improving the situation and protecting the environment through supporting projects coming from civil society organisations, and thus we thought that this already successful business of Air Serbia did not endanger the implementation of the obligation of the Republic of Serbia. You certainly stated in your explanation that there are a lot of interested investors who want to invest in our economy, and we think, if they want to invest, they don't need to be given extra funds, but we have where to spend those funds, and that's primarily to preserve the environment that's really in our desperate state.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41815	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41816	I thank you, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for proposing this amendment for the reason I believe that too much money is allocated for subsidies to failed public enterprises, on the one hand, as well as for that part of the contract in the work, where 30,000 new jobs are scheduled to be opened for the Serbian Progressive Party's staff, while 55% of young people today are unemployed. Today, in front of the students who visited us in this home, I must say that the proposal is that a portion of the funds should be allocated to you, in order for the state of Serbia to provide anyone who finishes a higher school or a higher school or a master's degree, or a doctorate, with a safe chance of a job. It is much less money than that money provided for 30,000 new party personnel from the Serbian Progressive Party, which in the budget, stands at 126m euros as an item. In order for every young man educated in Serbia to get a job and not leave Serbia, it takes much less than 80m euros. Today, a young colleague, 58,000 were registered on the national employment service's record with 80m euros. So, with a much smaller number than the one you predicted for you and your party and party. Anyone who's finished high, tall, who's mastered and doctored to get a safe chance of a job and not looking for his future in another country. I think it is the future of Serbia and for this reason even some MPs of the ruling majority commented on social networks yesterday to support this proposal. This is not a proposal that is exclusively related to political debate. This is a proposal concerning Serbia's future. The student must have a safe chance of getting that job tomorrow. For a year, the state of Serbia will provide him with a medium salary in the Republic and will provide him with taxes and contributions. After that year, he has a chance to extend his contract to a private company or private company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41817	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Jadrana Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41818	Since you have already mentioned that the employees of the Serbian Progressive Party are employed, you have said, of course, a great lie and, of course, that you are politicizing the matter. On the other hand, I can tell you what party employment looked like at the time of my generation who studied and who were not members of the Democratic Party. I could tell you that as a student of the generation of my time, which for a year and a half was out of a job, because everywhere there was a door closed to everyone who wasn't members of the Democratic Party. That's what I'm telling you on a personal occasion. Such practices are no longer here. Was there any party employment? It probably is, it's always there, but that kind of generalization, which you've just said, is absolutely false, and the process of learning history, in fact, the process of deciding, and we've chosen the bad practice that you've established.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41819	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. Why do you think you have the right to a replica, it's not you... (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: she said I am telling absolute untruth. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41820	Thank you, Your Honor. The subject of the amendment obviously lives in a fairy tale and tells us certain floscules and demagogues, because I will remind the gentleman across the street, and what did the Prime Minister of the Province do to employ young people? Well, you're in power. Don't pretend you're the opposition. You've been in power for 15 years in the AP Vojvodina. You have a Prime Minister, even though he's never at work, who speaks more about you and your responsibility to those young people you mention. What are you talking about? It's not all our responsibility, and when we talk about our results that the situation is great, it's not. In your time in 2008, unemployment was 14.8%, 2012 after your good results, as you represent unemployment reached 25% and during that time period most young people left the country. Most young people have left the country. And as Pajtic behaves, as you mention young people and say he has good projects, that young people should be employed, we have paper here that the District Government has one NGO and Limpopo province of South Africa to pay four million and 600,000. That's your score. What kind of investments are you talking about where young people are going to get a job? When you talk about public enterprises, what are the resources for? Give me a public firm that's been destroyed, destroyed or robbed while the SNS is in power. You won't find any. We're trying everything you've pushed into a hole, into a canal or whatever we call it, what you've been destroying to lift. To go fast, to go easy doesn't go, but all the economic results show that Serbia has a positive growth trend that you obviously don't like both the World Bank and the IBRD and the EU and Michael Davenport have talked here, everyone has talked about it and Mr. Han that Serbia is going forward, and it bothers you. Why? Because we have a budget that we adopt in 2016 for our country which has been transparent and in the last few decades for the first time we haven't had budget rebalances, which says they're very good at channelling funds. Speaking of results, you've seen Alexander Vukic's government saving money, so we can provide a better business environment for the young people you talk about. However, you only mention it declaredly, you never truly advocated reducing the number of unemployed or increasing the number of employees. We have seen how the country was managed by Dragan Djilas and Bozidar Djelic, as well as by Mr Pajtic, but by all studies, I think you are nearing a political end and I don't think you will have a chance to deceive citizens in the next term. Thank you. [[Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Do I have the right to a replica for two minutes?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41821	If you mentioned a name and a last name you have. You're not. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Then by amendment. You are right under the amendment. Here you are, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41822	What is data and exact figures is that there has been no decline in the number of employees in Vojvodina, while in the Republic it is. That's what the point is, which my former speaker doesn't know because he didn't read the budget, he didn't read much. What happens today when it comes to a young man who wants to get to work, whether he is in Vojvodina, whether in Belgrade or in the narrow part of Serbia, is important that they do not have a chance today. These young people, when they finish their colleges tomorrow, will be wandering for the next few years and the basic thing they will do in their lives together with their family is how to get out of Serbia and find a job somewhere else. You are now telling Mrs Joksimovic that we are responsible for something. Did you mean me? I don't care what you did with my predecessors in the DS and why you argued with each other. I don't want to argue here DS with SNS. We're talking specifically about the problem. Their grandparents have reduced pensions. Their parents lost their jobs. You think it's today to be a young man in Serbia that it's good, that someone feels good in their skin. What is up to them is that these young people today, and that is my message to you when you came to the National Assembly, to do, not to buy diplomas, because today on them, it is up to them to Serbia's future. As for 126m euros, which Mr Dusan Vujovic predicted for the employment of 30,000 workers, 30,000 labour contracts, and who will be employed? Wait, your predecessor, Mr. Krstic, who owed eight billion to Serbia and then fled from it, admitted that you hired 50,000 people until his term, until the end of his term. With these 30,000 more, he's just messing with the SNS. And that's why SNS lives better in these four years. Everyone else lives a lot worse. That is the point, and we are therefore struggling to give the state of Serbia with less than 80m euros a chance for every young man, to bind his future to his city, his municipality and his country, and not to put his head on the run to another country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41823	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41824	This is like a replica, not in the time the government has. You called me for something that has nothing to do with my jurisdiction at all. You filed an amendment that you didn't speak of at all. Sir, if you want to talk, talk to me, if I can't get on the record, then we'll deliver later. So you've submitted an amendment that reduces by two billion the division of 21 belonging to the Ministry of Infrastructure. You didn't say a word about why you thought it could reduce. The project you're talking about is completely unrelated to this and therefore, if you think you're right, you've proposed to cut by two billion, that's your amendment. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic, article 8, suggests that the split of 21st be reduced by two billion, you have not explained one word of why and how. Then you list another project that may be a good project, but absolutely cannot be proposed under this amendment since it is sorry, unconsistently completely. There are projects elsewhere, you have the right to propose projects, but get on time and suggest on time, not by repacking a piece of chicken from someone's soup and giving it to dogs or vice versa. All one thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41825	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by Minister Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41826	You know what, first of all, it's always good to be young, even in Serbia that I'm going along the path of progress. The way you feel now, I don't know, but certainly a young man in Serbia should be ambitious, well-educated. A system of acquired diplomas and the quality of various universities that can, and even some state to be questioned in terms of the quality of teaching and the quality of knowledge it comes out with, seems to me, in early 2000 or in the first half of that decade. You should have intervened when a system was destroyed, which, of course, now has its negative consequences. As far as someone's waiting for a job in the public administration, I understand the essence of criticism has been a predominant public administration for years. You know, it's not the point of everyone getting a job in the public administration and being invited by the state to work in the state. I guess he needs an entrepreneurial spirit. I guess he needs some initiative. Don't let us banalize things that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41827	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41828	Thank you, Your Honor. How dishonest and how much hypocrisy we have now seen tells us, since everyone knows that Mr. Pajtic has been the president of the province's government for 15 years, whether he ran an executive council, whatever we call it, but he was a key player in robbing our AP and I'll give you one piece of information when you talk about party employment and salary fund, how much it was spent. For example, the 2006 budget pays and allowances employed by a billion and 320 million, 2006. Then you get the data, every year it increased and increased, the 2013 budget, salaries and additions to employees of two billion and 199 million. I'm asking you now, who did you hire when you paid more than a billion dinars? Well, of course personnel DS, personnel DS. The Serbian Progressive Party has imposed an unpopular measure, which is a ban on employment, that you must have the government commission's decision, which means you can't hire who you want and what time you want. You've never passed such regulations and such laws, or such regulations. That's why we're here today. That's why we have problems, which is why we don't have unemployment as low as in developed countries. These are all your results, and we've introduced a ban on employment, led the system to save money, we've got GDP growth, the construction industry is in motion, the car industry is in motion. Of course it bothers you and it hurts you, because this is how we continue, I expect your circuit president to stay in the shadows for a long, long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41829	Thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41830	Dear Chairman, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I am reporting on Amendment 52 to Article 8 and I will waste the time of the parliamentary group. The Serbian Renewal Movement adopted a programme declaration on decentralisation and even regional development as early as 2007. Therefore, the SPO insists on a balanced regional development, so that the adoption of amendments that would endanger the implementation of the European Investment Bank project in the framework of loans for municipal and regional infrastructure would be unacceptable for our parliamentary club. The Serbian Renewal Movement supports the text of the Budget Law, as well as Serbia's decentralisation and equal regional development, and I would reiterate once again that we believe that the adoption of amendments in favour of strengthening the municipal and regional administration would be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41831	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Stefana Miladanovic, Vera Paunovic and Marija Obradovic. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41832	I thank the chairman, I will use the time of my parliamentary group. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I have submitted the amendment along with my colleagues from the Women's Parliamentary Network. I would particularly like to point out that for the first time in the Budget Law this year, gender-responsible budgeting has been introduced and I welcome the government's decision to recognise the efforts of the civil sector of international institutions and Serbia's Women's Parliamentary Network to introduce gender-responsible budgeting. With this in mind, we have also submitted an amendment aimed at improving incentives in agriculture and rural development in the case of farmers and, instead of the schedule and use of the resources of this appraisal, will be carried out in accordance with a special act of the Government. So, on the text tabled in this law, we have submitted an amendment that reads - the schedule and use of the means of this appraisal will be carried out in accordance with a special act by the Government, taking into account the improvement of gender equality. This amendment was rejected, and in my opinion it was an exceptional opportunity for it to be adopted, because in co-operation with the Ministry of Finance, the Co-ordination Body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for Gender Equality and with the support of the UN Agency for the Promotion of Gender Equality in Serbia this year, 28 institutions were set to formulate a clear goal that contributes to the improvement of equality between women and men in the relevant programmes within their sectors and to formulate at least one programme activity that will contribute to the achievement of the goal of improving equality between women and men. Budget users have also been offered three ways to solve this. The first is setting a special goal for women and men with the aim of reducing clarity. Taking into account the gender issue and developing a gender-sensitive approach is the third differentiation of objectives and indicators, so that they explicitly refer to both women and men. Unfortunately, all of this has not been applied to the Ministry of Agriculture, and we have, in this amendment, actually wanted to correct and correct the situation and improve the situation when it comes to gender-responsible budgeting in the following year. Why is this amendment important? He, in my opinion, and my colleagues, has two goals. The first is to regulate competitiveness, i.e. reaching standards of quality and risk management, diversifying economic activities in the country and for both of these objectives, we have listed several indicators of which I would like to highlight the following – the number of supported users in the field of fruit, vegetables, grapes, milk and meat processing and supported users dealing with non-agricultural activities. The women in the country are running and doing these very jobs. In these areas they also run other services in the country to improve the quality of everyday life, such as various social services, tourism, social enterprises and different services, and we felt that the allocation of these funds must take care of gender equality and how to contribute to this job. The main objective is to encourage the sustainable economic activity of women in the country through this amendment. And last year when we submitted a similar amendment and this year we were told that it would be regulated by the special rules adopted by the ministry. That's also said in an explanation. We were never invited by the ministry once this year to participate in those rules. We felt it was much better, given that the law was passed, that budgeting was introduced in the Budget Law, that this area was regulated by these members not by the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41833	The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41834	Your Honor, I'd like to say the same thing since I'm a signator of this amendment. We have tabled an amendment to Article 8 exclusively in order to improve gender equality. Since the woman is a pillar of the family and in the urban, rural environment, women are drivers and participants of many activities, lead and do jobs in the area of agriculture and work from morning till tomorrow. There are many examples where women are carriers of agricultural land, successful entrepreneurs in tourism, rural tourism and the like, founders of social enterprises, and also successful housewives, wives and mothers. For the reasons we believe that the allocation of funds to which this Member of the Budget Act applies must take into account gender equality and how the programme should contribute. In order for women engaged in those areas to be primarily well informed and take part in this programme activity because in this way we create conditions for women in the country to stay longer in the country. I am convinced that the RS government has the same goal as the Women's Parliamentary Network to preserve and improve the principle and principle of gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41835	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41836	Thank you for the suggestion. I propose that amendments given by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Stefana Miladanovic, Vera Paunović, Marija Obradović, Gordana Comić and Elvira Kovač are accepted on the 8th and that after the correction, the timetable and use of the funds of this appraisal will be carried out in accordance with a special act of the Government, taking into account the improvement of gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41837	So I can find out that you accepted the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41838	Exactly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41839	I'm asking you to make a statement. Thank you very much. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41840	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, let us first thank you, Mr Minister, for accepting this amendment. I know for a fact that you remembered last year when we were just talking about how women in agriculture can be stimulated and that it was actually presented that there was no possibility of such a thing at the time, that that is why it has to go through a certain budget item, not a submission when it comes to certain credit lines and that this was actually the only way to do it. Thank you again and we hope to have such good cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41841	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradović, Dubravka Filipovski, and Nevenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41842	Thank you. I also want to thank the Minister for accepting this amendment. This is of great importance, perhaps not for this act and for this year, but this is a major shift when we talk about budgets, i.e. gender-responsible budgeting. It's something that's new to Serbia, new and for a good part of the world, but by many things we start to be leaders, so also when we talk about gender budgeting, gender-responsible budgeting. What we talked about throughout Serbia when we promoted gender-responsible budgeting, and we will help the committees across Serbia insist, even when planning local budgets, on gender-responsible budgeting, and this can be done without a major shift in figures. Exactly what the minister has just said, that we can only think within the existing frameworks a little bit, after the birth analysis, how much money really comes to the end users of women and how many men. One brief display, i.e. Case. In the municipality of Užice, 25% of women are owners of agricultural land. Only 2% of the subsidies in agriculture go to women. So that's one small example of how far we can go inside the already existing money and the already existing framework to just think about whether it's a proper redistribution. No one is asking for half-half, that's not the right way to divide, but if there are already those who need this money and which it's meant to do, just to think about whether we've distributed it properly to get the best possible effect. So, to be effective, but also effective in our work. Thank you again and on behalf of the Women's Parliamentary Network we are trying to move some of the principles and rules in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41843	Thank you. The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41844	Just one sentence at all of what my colleagues said. I am sure that, Mr. Minister, together this year, we will make huge progress in the development of the rural area in Serbia and the progress of women's entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41845	Thank you. The word is Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41846	It's very short, so I don't repeat myself. The Honorable President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you once again for your support. I hope that we will have the support absolutely from our fellow Members of Parliament here in the National Assembly. This is another positive step of the Women's Parliamentary Network to give women in Serbia who are professional and responsible for taking part in even greater capacity in all areas of life, because they are those who can better join everyone to step up with reforms, towards Serbia's progress and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41847	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Topic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41848	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I have given an amendment relating to division 23, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment. This amendment provides for a reduction in the funding for programme activity of 4001 relating to the settlement of commitments made by the Environment Fund, amounting to 10 million dinars and the conversion of these funds to programme activity 0405, function 560, i.e. the means that I want them to opt for the production of a map of erosion in the Republic of Serbia. Here's why I'm proposing this. Given the catastrophic floods during 2014, their causes and consequences, it is necessary to renovate Serbia's erosion map in practice, i.e. to identify exactly the areas subject to erosion under the appearance of geological lyrics caused by major rainfalls, as they were in the spring of 2014. We are being updated periodically at an interval of about ten years. In particular, it was characteristic in 2006, when the rinks affected almost the entire Serbia mountainous area, causing damage affecting both citizens' lives and the economy. At that time, public attention was focused on these new phenomena and on helping endangered areas. However, as soon as the gliders calmed down everything quickly forgot and happened again last year when the cyclone "Tamara" hit the whole region, and it caused heavy rainfall in us, large slides and slopes in Serbia and led to the destruction or damage of many residential and commercial buildings, even to the destruction of infrastructures, such as roads, waterways and sewers, which had a harmful effect on the environment, and in some places there was a complete block of life and even the population was temporarily evicted. At that time, all the shortcomings in construction, such as illegal and inadequate construction of residential buildings, were expressed in places that are subject to the occurrence of slides and dives. Material damages are huge, and environmental damage in the long term, in some places even irreparable. Therefore, in order for such cataclysmic situations to be expected more readily and for their impact to be reduced to a minimum, it is necessary to respect the recommendations of experts, in this case geologists, and to stimulate co-operation with experts in the field of spatial planning, urbanism, construction, water industry, mining and other professions. I therefore believe that making a map, i.e. a map of erosion for the entire territory of Serbia, is necessary in order to know which places are subject to the appearance of erosion, gliding, rooting and other biological lyrics, which is why they are risky for the construction of residential, commercial and infrastructure facilities and what measures should be taken in these areas to minimise erosion. In this way, we would be willing to welcome these phenomena and the damage would be far less. I believe that these 10 million dinars, which would be set aside for these needs, are far, far less than billions and even more than a billion euros, as estimated to have been damages since last year. Also, I want the amendment to increase the amount of funds intended for programming activities – permanent disposal of historical waste. These are the activities that we want to support with this amendment, same as 10 million dinars, such as the preparation of professional grounds for the making of laws and other regulations in the field of waste management, because we see that we are terribly late in this area, that the bill on amendments and additions to the Waste Act is unfortunately announced to be adopted this fall, and none of it, here is the end of the year. Also, for the preparation and implementation of strategic documents for integrated waste management and their integration with other strategic documents, the development of operational plans for specific waste flows, monitoring and participation in work bodies related to the Basel Convention on the Control of the Transboundary Movement of Dangerous Wastes and their landfills. Unfortunately, we still don't have an orderly system for destroying hazardous waste, and we think that such an investment that is far less and more modest compared to all other costs, but it helps to better solve the problem in the future would be much more beneficial. I especially want to look at one example lately, namely Sirmium Steel in Sremska Mitrovica, as a very negative example that we would have to solve. This is about the investor leaving, or leaving the country, leaving huge debts and leaving a dangerous waste that I don't know about now, and I want to ask the question, unfortunately, there's not a Minister of Environmental Affairs who's going to take care of this hazardous waste now and in any way, and I'm not talking about the damages and the workers being out of work, and how is this program going to be resolved at all? I want to take another chance to ask Minister Vujovic because I asked that when was the principle debate - when will the Green Fund be finally established because, by now, under the existing Law on the Environment, still funds are collected based on pollution fees? According to some estimates, it's from five to seven billion dinars per year, which are now going into the central budget, and that's not green money, as they would say, which means that money and in these situations would be very useful and very well used to improve the environment. You have answered us not to accept this amendment, it is said, due to the commitments made from, I suppose, that shut-down fund you shut down in 2012 and since then, its status has not been resolved. I'll just remind you it's in chapter 27. The European Union has recommended that continued sources of funding be restored, i.e. Some kind of green fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41849	Thank you. Gordana Komic, please. Do you want to hear the minister first, or what?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41850	I'll be very brief. Support this amendment, with a request and MPs from the Green Group and with a request from the finance minister to accept the amendment and MPs to vote. The amendment is good, the amendment is European, the amendment is good for Serbia. It's not always about the amount of money, it's about the message that we want to do well with that money. We need a map of erosion instead of complaining about what's happening to us because we don't have it. So it's just my support for the amendment in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41851	Thank you. Minister Vujovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41852	Yeah. All three proposals - two with concrete numbers and the one you said last for the Green Fund are essentially acceptable to me. Unfortunately, it seems that we failed because of the 419 amendments that we had to process in the short run, this is the main problem, because it is a redistribution among certain elements, to get the consent of those from whose appraisal is being downloaded. That's why I can't accept the amendment as it's written, but I can promise you for sure that these two first proposals, the Green Fund is a special issue, two first proposals will surely be able to combine with the requirement to use the current budget reserve as soon as fiscal years start. So we're essentially in favour of the amendment, and we haven't exactly had time to ensure the consent of those to whom the appraisals apply, I can't formally accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41853	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SVM group together submitted to the 8th amendment, with a correction. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 8th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Petrovic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Miroslav Marinkovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41854	The President-in-Office of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Government, the amendment, as I have stated in the interpretation of the previous amendment, has a constructive character, means that what we know is a problem in terms of funding, especially in agriculture, in some ways we are amortizing. I've had a chance to hear here that the budget is a collection of figures that are planning something, etc. That, unfortunately, is how it is. This is about numbers that people live on. So, to be clear, in Article 8, Section 28 of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Combat Affairs, Social Affairs, part of the programme concerning the financing of those who are going to be jobless, surplus employees, etc., since it says in the explanation that privatisation has not been successfully carried out in the previous year and the money already planned has not been spent, and in order to provide for the same amount of money for this year, I think it is unnecessary that, for some security reasons, it may not be possible for social reactions in the population to come to an end in order for people to settle quickly. But that money is clearly not needed in that amount, so I suggested by amendment that 3.2 billion be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of human environments, as it is said, there was once been forestry and water industry, that it be used for regressions and premiums that, as you keep saying, are the same as last year. However, you remained in debt of 9.7 billion and it was turned into a public debt, so that 23 billion were obviously not enough. Did more people sign up or not? We fully support this accepted amendment, and these are the people who live on agricultural production, and I think that on the wings of this good mood of acceptance of amendments you might also accept this one because it is in the interest of the largest population living in this country. I'd like to say that unlike some colleagues who represent themselves as peasants, that he's a peasant by profession, I'm not, but I want to help them. I want to help these producers through various forms, programs that can be achieved through this part of the budget come, create a solid base, and we all know that one dinar invested in agriculture gives 3.2 dinars, and that's a very fast turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41855	The title of Chapter III and Article 9 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Joksimovic and the Honored Ministers Vujović and Udovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted the amendment to Article 9. The draft budget law, argued our amendment. Minister Joksimovic told us that we should not worry about, as we have assessed, the non-European proposed budget because on Monday, negotiating chapters 32 and 35 will be opened, and the most important issue for this topic is Chapter 32, which is entitled Financial Supervision, which introduces internal control of public finances. There is no dilemma, Mrs Joksimovic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that Serbia is the place in the EU, that this is our civilization environment, that we must clearly order here from this institution – clear to Europe! But on that road, all those governments that run our country, I think, as citizens and MPs, we should also remind ourselves of some unfulfilled things. For example, here we have, and together we have listened to here this week and a guest from the European Commission who has pointed to some things that, for example, are not possible to open chapters 23 and 24 that concern large principles, Mrs Joksimović, the rule of law, personal freedoms, etc. Well, how come we're not prepared for those most difficult chapters, how do we all say here? How come we don't respond to Mr. Han's assessment that the Assembly has to work a little better here, have problems with the judiciary, freedom of expression, etc.? These are all important things for our European path, and of course, opening chapters, that's the important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41857	Thank you. Jadranka Joksimovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41858	I didn't realize how much it had to do with the budget, but of course I'll answer. On the contrary, Mr Pavicevic, you should have welcomed the fact that Serbia, as a candidate country, is already in progress, I believe, the first half of next year will certainly open chapters 23 and 24, given that you should know, and I believe you know, that the European Commission's criteria have been amended. They used to be chapters that were hard to open, even in the end. In the meantime, precisely because of the demand of the chapter, the principle of opening up among the first chapters concerning both the rule of law and the fight against terrorism has been applied, and you have forgotten that, and the reform of justice and human and minority rights, etc. Serbia has made action plans that are criteria for opening. You should be proud of the fact that Serbia is indeed working actively, hardworking, up-to-date and that we will certainly be very dynamic in the order of our negotiations activities next year. Expect the 23rd and 24th among the first. This also shows stability, first of all, of the European path, as well as visits by a number of officials whose arrival I believe you welcome and see as a way and recognition for what we have done so far. I believe you, as a pro-European MP, will participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41859	Thank you. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Homen and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th amendment was jointly submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41860	The Honorable President, unfortunately, and you continue to practice skipping the order of amendments. It would be logical if my amendment and colleagues were to go first, because we put the amendment to Article 9(1) and you read...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41861	I don't have the text of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41862	Amendments to paragraphs 3 and 4. But that's what I once resented the chairman, the way the order of amendments discussed here is abused, I thought it was his personal problem, but apparently it's not, it's systemic. Now I'm going to say a few sentences about the amendment. The point of the amendment is that the Law on the salaries of civil servants, which determines the basis of the budget, increases the base by 10% first as much as it was reduced last year through the application of the Taxation Act, and then increases by an additional 2% of how much inflation was in 2015. Of course, this amendment has been rejected, it was rejected because it does not support the government's policy on how fiscal consolidation works. I want to point out, first of all, one mistreatment of civil servants and deputies by this government. They were left out of the announcement of an increase next year. I deliberately say, the announcements, because we will see further in the budget that the budget and the Budget Law speak of the possibility of increasing both salaries and pensions, I hope that by the end of today's debate we will hear from the minister that this will actually happen from January 1st, because when it stands in the law, it means it doesn't have to. There's one amendment that's just the obligation to end it, and it leaves a volunteer in it. I want to say something about civil servants. Yesterday, Commissioner Han, among other things, praised our state administration in a way that helped successfully organise the OSCE summit in Belgrade, and many others speak positively about our state administration. The only thing that seems to me is that some signals are coming from the government that some sloths are sitting there that don't do anything and don't deserve what they're getting. I think that's really bad. The minister spoke, we didn't get here, 200, and I don't know how many amendments, because there was little time. I believe and know for sure, Mr. Minister, that most of the work has been done by some civil servants, agreeing with the amendments, preparing the government's response, so they've made mistakes. We agreed that one of the previous schedules was a mistake, and they had a little time too, working day and night, and I don't think it's right to send such messages to them. I hope the government finds room in the budget for people who work in the state administration, and there are valuable ones who don't. They're mostly the ones who came across party connections and don't do anything, possibly sitting behind these computers, writing comments on the orders of party headquarters. People like that shouldn't even be sitting at all, and those who work should be rewarded. Our proposal in this article is to reward them by first increasing their salaries, i.e. the base for salaries that were one year before the reduction, and then increasing by 2% how much inflation in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41863	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41864	Thank you, Your Honor. It's good, and it's nice for someone to think like this. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, I would just, of course, ask, you know, the auto projection1 is absolutely a miracle. Perhaps a respected colleague, for example, used to hire people like him who wrote comments like that. So don't insult officers who, by the way, work somewhere, maybe do what your employees are doing, something like that, and they used the state service to write comments on the Internet. I don't think that's really nice, and on the other hand, I'd just like it here, because you're proposing amendments like this and all of this, that you tell us when you're on the Fiscal Council, and when you're not, since we rarely hear here in the debate that you're constantly calling for the Fiscal Council. If you want to appeal to the Fiscal Council then say that the Fiscal Council is asking us to fire 20,000 people next year, and you are now as far as I can tell against it, and when you need fiscal advice, then you're up for it. So you just can't get caught by what your idea is, and that's why an amendment like this is obviously dishonest, I can't accept it, and I'd ask you in the future not to insult the officers if, once again, you've hired people to write comments on the Internet, that's something else, SNS doesn't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41865	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41866	Your intention is obviously noble, but it doesn't reflect the restriction we came from last year. This wasn't introduced because someone's doing it, it's a politically difficult, economically very painful move that was necessary to start with reforms. If you don't think there are restrictions that we've done it for, or there are no reasons why, in part, there's a small part of only 11 billion net effect on the budget that changes the salary fund by this increase that you're talking about, a partial increase in wages and pensions, part of the wages and pensions, then we're losing sight of the basic reality framework that we're talking about here. If there are no restrictions, then we could raise 15% and 20% and catch up with Europe immediately. If there are restrictions as a colleague mentioned here on the advice of the Fiscal Council, then you should ask for a 10% reduction because they proposed it last year. I understand your goodwill, but I don't understand how this is mapped into the reality of this budget or any other reality. Therefore, changing Article 1 of this law, which only here transposes those laws that were passed last year, more than a year ago, practically destroys the enforceability of this budget and you know it very well. I haven't seen a single sentence of yours that explains where to provide the funds for this amendment of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41867	Thank you. The 9th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Miroslav Marinkovic. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41868	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, the amendment also has one good intention and I think it is possible to correct it. The argument that I would like to justify and explain this amendment is that, therefore, I am a member, i.e. a colleague and I, in Article 9(2), asked for a change and that for the basis for the payment of salaries, payment of public prosecutors, judges, the deputy public prosecutor in the net amount was increased from 29.835 to 33,645 dinars, which was the amount before the pay cut. So I'm going to try to further strengthen this argument with other arguments. If we want to have an independent judiciary and if we want to have this whole system that we're sworn to and we think it's necessary to function independently, then we need to give it conditions to be independent. If you have over 400 positions in the budget, it means that we don't see what it is, but in every position in each budget section you have where it writes – services by contract and they are, I say, two and a half to three. So, surely with one better coordination, this is small money, it's not big money, it can ensure that these people we're asking for have the dignity that we can't get close to them, that we can't spit them in the papers, mud and talk about them, and that they stay independent and be, practically, people who keep this system, then we can't have that simplified relationship with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41869	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41870	I would like to thank the President. With regard to the amendment itself, respected Minister Vujovic, it is not a questionable motivation to improve the material and legal position and the working-law status of legal holders in our judicial system. Unfortunately, and the judiciary, I say in a joke because judges if anyone else should then have, not only a decent profit, but a profit that in every respect enables their independence and prevents any form of corruption. Considering that with restrictions normally managed by the Government in terms of protection and the fiscal system, as well as financial structures throughout the country, everything we say reflects on the judiciary, the judicial system, and logically, we cannot now manage the idea of increasing profits. However, I think that we could do something else in terms of protection, the interest of the holders of judicial functions, which is that at least those decisions or those regulations that have been made, when it comes to judges, the republican rank, here, above all, I mean the judges of the Court of Justice and the Supreme Cassation, retain their status in particular to respect the provisions of the Law on Judges, not to change, that the travellers have privileges that relate to the right to compensation for a separate life, that their right in no case should be abolished, because otherwise they would come into a paradoxal situation, to make "bigradation", let's say that the Court of Appeal in Belgrade has only judges from Belgrade, in Nis only judges from Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sada, and not to speak of the Supreme Court of Cassation. I think these powers should be detained, because in any case, those who have the right to define where they will work have the same constitutional right to determine where they live. We can't force them to live in Belgrade, if their place is elsewhere, but that's why what's about their separate lives, because we have the opportunity to give them the right compensation, and I think you'll appreciate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41871	The 10th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Joksimovic, respected ministers Udovic and Vujovic, the Prime Minister here told us at the beginning of this budget marathon that lasts during the week. The budget is a book through which all our political, economic decisions on social and all other spheres are broken, gentlemen. I read carefully, consulted myself to check with the experts and we concluded that this budget reflects the government's intention to continue its subsidy policy, and then during the amendment debate here, we noticed that the government did not prepare a methodology for assessing the effects of these subsidies and then, logically, our citizen wonders, if necessary, to take some money from his pocket, by reducing wages for example or by reducing pensions, whether that money should be thrown into the fire. Here, I'll tell Mr. Vujovic on one occasion to illustrate it to you. For example, Er Serbia, last year, lost to 67m euros. The alleged profit "Er Serbia" that is constantly being talked about here comes from the subsidy of our country and then is said to be – see how successful it is for the company. Wait, gentlemen, the money was taken from the citizens, that money was given through subsidies to someone, in this case "Er Serbia", there is no methodology for assessing the effects of the subsidy, the loss of 67m euros, and we are declaring the loss a terrible success. Where is it, gentlemen? It's a picture of a part of our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41873	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41874	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Otherwise, I would really like to ask all my colleagues who, like this critical or critically, are speaking specifically, about "Er Serbia", while we are at this amendment and I am asking you not to fly "Er Serbia". Go to another company, since you obviously don't want "Er Serbia", because unfortunately for your sake, Serbian citizens recognize something else, which is that "Er Serbia", is a quality company, and look at all the companies in the region have a problem, because we have strengthened our company so much and we are glad that the Croatian airline has big problems, because there are not enough passengers, and ultimately, the United States would not make an agreement with you that you have a direct line. So this is about the success of "Er Serbia", and I repeat, if you don't like it, don't fly it, you're fine looking for a ticket for another airline and go ahead, you're welcome to fly with another air carrier.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41875	Marko Djurisic is a bearer, so let's hear all the applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41876	Thank you, Honored President, the member of this year's 10th, once again puts aside the possibility provided for by the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies to determine their rewards in accordance with the results of the work. We believe that such a solution as is written in the draft budget law is not good. The Law on salaries of civil servants and deputies only states that the budget determines the percentage of the total amount of payment appropriations set out for the addition of the results achieved to the beneficiary in the State Authority. This is where you put off the power of application of this member of the law. So, it is completely impossible for the state reward administration and those who work in relation to those who do not work or work for their parties to write comments or come to spontaneously organised support meetings, when the Law on "Belgrade on Water" was adopted here, and spontaneously came from the Belgrade JKP employees, contrary to the Law on Public Meeting in front of the National Assembly on the day she sat down, to greet the government, the prime minister and I don't know who. So we feel that this should be erased and that there should be a possibility of applying the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants and rewarding those who work. In this way, we are further destroying the efficiency of the state administration, which is our goal of the minister, which is what we heard and that's where we agree. I don't understand those who say whether we agree and we support the Fiscal Council or not. It's not their "holy book" finding that I have to support everything that's written there. I agree with them that this budget is non-transparent, but I do not agree with the idea that they support further wage cuts, because it is the only way to achieve fiscal consolidation. I don't agree with them on that. I don't agree with this government's policy that fiscal consolidation is this way, the only way out of the crisis, because I think that if I were to introduce an effective state administration, and that could have been done in this year and a half, even if it was done, it could have been cleaned up for a few tens of thousands of people in the state administration who aren't doing anything. Investments could be attracted and economic activity could be raised much more than 0.8% of what will be at the end of this year and from all that to finance salaries and pensions. Minister, I think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41877	Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41878	Member of the 107th Honorable Chairman, I would ask you, because the dignity of parliament is insulted here, but, of course, the dignity of the entire society is insulted. I just tried through the amendment debate, but right now I have to advertise, you have to warn, please a little earlier speaker, because he insults civil servants. He claims that civil servants all go on a warrant, to someone's rally. It must not be allowed, because if they used to do it, it does not mean that we do not have a need for it, because we have over 50% support and certainly, the citizens of Serbia will always come to our rally, rally, whatever. It's not my fault that you don't have the support, that you once had to do so, but don't do what you did and do, that you transfer others and that kind of insult to the officers, I'm really warning you in the future, and I'm asking you to react, because it doesn't make sense to insult civil servants like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41879	I didn't understand it that way. I thought he meant that "yellow ducks" rally or something, because it was happening at the same time, so I thought it was a problem, as much as I remember when the law was being discussed. Looks like we're seeing something without seeing something. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I answer to Ambassador Vladimir Djukanovic, and he is pleased with my answer and does not ask for a vote. I give my word to Dusan Vujovic. Here you go, Rules of Procedure, but you have to sign in, I can't be a magician, so I'll give you my word remotely, Mr. Djurishic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41880	Article 100, esteemed president, speaks of the fact that if the chairman wishes to be involved in the debate, he can do so by leaving the presidency to one of the vice presidents or to another and then from the seat of the MPs to get involved in the debate. So, if you wanted to make a commentary that I was thinking about and what I was thinking, you'd be free to sign up here for a word in accordance with article 100 and to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41881	Thanks for the suggestion. This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This is a debate with me...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41882	No, I'm talking about it, I'm explaining how you... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41883	This is a debate with me, and you can't interfere if he didn't have an MP Vladimir Djukanovic on my interpretation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and didn't call you to be his legal representative here. Therefore, do not abuse the Rules of Procedure. You still have very little time to discuss all the laws, and I won't take two minutes away from you just because we have important things to discuss today, and the abuses of the Rules of Procedure we have as much as you want, if we're going to be true. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41884	Thank you very much. Several previous amendments and suggestions here have been made, so I understand, with the best intention, but the problem in realisation, when a selective thing needs to be realized and the problem is in perception of equality or transparent rules to achieve something. So I'm sure that judges should be the first step, well-rewarded judges are the first step to raise the judiciary to the level where we'd like it to be, not only to enable ourselves to meet the criteria of the heads that will be opened next year but also to make sure that the rule of law in this country is at that level that all citizens rightly expect. However, perception to explain that we are stepping away from the rules of equality is incredibly difficult and only because of this we ask judges for solidarity until we come out of these first most difficult years of fiscal consolidation, then we will be able to consider it. Also, the issue of rewards, in a country where we haven't measured well for years, in which we have no problem with the budget, is the issue of rewards, and to agree in an environment where the effort and work are clearly unevenly distributed, that the results are unevenly distributed is not easy. That's why I'm asking all those who obviously have a lot more work to do than average, to do it out of enthusiasm until it's time to repay them. It would be extremely difficult for me to accept ourselves to break those rules, to separate some funds and in six months or a year that we have difficulty explaining to you that we have tried to make it transparently right. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41885	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41886	Article 10 removes the funds for the payment of allowances for the results of the work of employers in state bodies, exclusively in 2016. Of course we're asking for this to be erased, because this article is practically equating work and worklessness, sleep at work and enthusiasm that the minister was talking about earlier. Of course enthusiasm should be rewarded, but first of all, it should be the number of people and those people who don't do anything in the state administration, and the most punishment should be for those who do 25 hours of bad things a day. It's the worst possible option. You have lazy and valuable, good and evil. The worst combination is when someone's mean and valuable, they make bad things 25 hours a day. So it has to change very quickly and it's been a good chance that through these stimulations, which can be from a few percent to a few tenths of a percent, at the end of each month or at the end of each trimester, rewards are given to people who do their job in a valid way. Of course, the criteria should be prepared for this, of course, that the monitoring methodology should be prepared, but if some government wants to be the first in history, the best, the only, the mother, and I don't know which other compliments, then for this year and a half, or for three or three and a half years to prepare all these criteria, and now to praise that there is now one real measure of measuring the work of civil servants, and thus to open a new page. Of course there was, and of course this government abolished it for completely unknown reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41887	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic and Ivan Karic. (Jadranka Joksimovic, from town: I answer the word. ) According to the amendment, the Government can only report once, so I'll give you the next one. (Jadranka Joksimovic, from the post: Next. Yes. The word is Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41888	So, according to this amendment, on the basis of Article 16. In 2016, we propose that 20% of employees translate or receive higher pay grade status and thus be rewarded. I'll try to explain this, although Mr. Secretary isn't here, but there are other ministers. We are the rule of equality that reminds me enormously of the uncommunist, socialist system since after the war in 1946, of the reduction of wages and pensions, where the pensions that have been acquired by the citizens in such a way that they have paid at least three to four decades of funds to receive, and then it's calculated by the criteria that the laws have predicted, and when the 10% cuts came, we keep talking about 60% of those, it's terrible for me to say, but the poorest members of our society, and we boast that they haven't changed their pensions, i.e. Their pension hasn't been cut, and they don't already have to eat. It seems the same here with civil servants, and I disagree with Mr. Minister's explanation, which, as far as the judge is concerned, he said he was, so he's lost, he said with a lot of passion, he's deviating from the rules of equality. What equality, for God's sakes, a man who needs to be a judge needs to finish college, he needs to pass a judicial exam, that he has years of internships so he can make progress and we say - then we all have to be the same? We can be in the same way that we can watch what is offered. It's a story for reality programs, it's not a story for real life. That story about us all being the same has led us to suffer for decades and that for decades no one, who was more educated, has been treated as a sick and not as a useful member of society. Please, so, Madam Minister, to convey to Mr. Finance, to honor my request that more educated, educated people, who have participated differently in life, not treat us the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41889	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41890	Yes, Article 11 should define that commitments towards beneficiaries of the budget are carried out in proportion to the revenue and revenue achieved. It's very interesting that you might find it lexical to explain the difference between income and income, but not to get into that topic now, it's not applied, and that's why we're looking for the erasure of this article, besides the basic reason that the budget is no good, so you need to delete it and create the conditions to write a new real budget on clean, white, virginish clean paper. Why isn't it applied? If you look at it, if you're reading "The Official Messenger", which is my favorite literature and it's the strongest opposition paper in Serbia, because it can't be lied there, it can't be censored, there's no silicones and other things to cover something important. If you follow that regularly, you will see that there are several municipalities in Serbia, for example, that receive donations every two or three months. Say a colleague – Jagodina; among others is Jagodina, but is not the only one. It's obviously buying whether there's some political peace in the coalition, whether there's a number of votes in parliament, or some obligations that are unclear to me, but definitely no article 11 or anything like that defined in Article 11. Budget law. That is why it is necessary to wipe out the entire budget and this member and make a good budget that will be at Serbia's pride in the 16th year of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41891	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41892	I'm not the finance minister, I can pass on the finance minister, but I can certainly give you a part of the answer. You know, I understand that it's politically probative to ask and it's always a good measure. I only call on you to remember your party president when he was in office as president of the state, who said he had completely on base economic grounds allowed a rise in wages in the public sector and pensions, that he had done it under pressure. So there was no pressure here, we wouldn't even succumb to pressure. So it must be understood that the level of pay depends on the level of economic growth. And it's interesting to say, for example, that you don't say that the small salaries to the tax inspectors, who fill the country's budget, and the civil servants are not too small compared to the private sector. And it also needs to be very objective. I've also heard about those who work in the judiciary. We can all agree in principle, just ask the question if the judiciary is a principle of independence, and say, indemnity, so should we pay additionally for the criteria that are meant to be, which is that someone is safe, unsuspecting, and not to say, of course, and adequately qualified for that kind of work? So we all agree, and we'd all like it to be more, but here we're talking about economically well-founded basics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41893	Thank you. Ambassador Miroslav Marinkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41894	Your Honor, Madam Minister, you answered me what I didn't ask you. As for that assessment, we belong to poor countries and I am very sorry about that. You've all had, like me, opportunities to get to know other environments. But if you think it's enough that the judge works for 600, 700 euros, I don't think so. Secondly, we didn't all have the same participation, I commented on the minister's comment, in order to violate the right of equality. In what? In what right of equality? Do you know how much education costs? Well, you speak foreign languages like me, you have to learn by school and later. You're done. You've been a student for generations. And there's no corruption and there's nothing. I've had six last-generation college students in my family. My son is a doctor of medicine who sits down for a year without a job. I don't complain, he'll find his place, but I don't want him to leave me. I'm a parent, I'd like her to stay here. And you're telling me he can't. And if I told you how he competed, how they ended up and who was admitted and what I was told, because I tried, like every parent, to find a shortcut. Maybe now I've made it impossible for him to work here at all. Don't talk to me here that we don't understand how our Prime Minister, or the president of the state, used to say there's no equality, that he made a mistake not to cut it down. I was telling you about pensioners who had 90,000 for whom they paid money. When they were taken 10%, they were taken 10,000 dollars that they weren't guilty of. What did you take all the same? Well, not 60%, and your explanation was that, not yours, but the government, that 60% of the pensioners didn't feel a reduction, because they didn't have the money to eat.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41895	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41896	I'm sorry, these are serious charges. You're saying that employment, that your son competed and he didn't. I'd like you to specifically say where, what, how, where the procedure isn't respected, because we're here and we're fighting it. My goal is for those who need to pass the contests. We're changing practice. And let me remind you, the practice was 5, 7 and 10 grand, depending on whether you have a party book, which you rank in the game and everything. So what I stand for is that it's gone. If you claim to have it, I beg you, either here publicly or you give it to me, it's already my problem, but it certainly won't happen in my term. That's what I'm telling you. And if there is, it will be sanctioned, there's no reason to be different, because we're fighting for it, so I don't want it to happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41897	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41898	Thank you. Just for a little while. You said - we understand that you can't. It can do, just like you did, borrowing. And then, when you leave, a accumulated public debt. It's like an avalanche that when it goes off and in the middle if it stops, it's bigger than it was. We're in the middle now, only if you stop her in the middle, she won't sink the village when she gets to the bottom. So I think it's really something you need to take as an argument. And can we borrow it? Sure, that's what the previous governments have shown. Only the public debt then pays the citizens of Serbia. I think that kind of demagogy, I understand politically, well, it's the easiest thing for everyone to say -- wages and pensions should be increased. It's not under the question of what's more probative to say politically, but this is what's real. This government is responsible, real. I think we'll have the results over the course of this year. If you don't believe it, it's legitimate, but you have to give us arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41899	The bearer Vladimir Pavicevic, and Vladimir Djukanovic as an MP, then Gordana Komic. I'm reading so I can delete the list and get a new one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored President Mrs Gojkovic, Honored Mrs Joksimovic and Honored Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Joksimovic says - offer your arguments. Well, here's the fourth day I've been offering an argument for every amendment we've submitted to the draft budget law. We related this budget to the following concepts: non-creditability, non-transparency, arbitration, irresponsibility, abandonment of reforms. Here, in the case of our amendment to Article 11 concerning the implementation of the commitments to beneficiaries of the budget, I will show how irresponsible we can be to the authors of this 2016 draft budget. We wrote – the proposed structure of expenditure per institution shows an irresponsible policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here, to show over two points, both ministers and our guests from the government, ministers, members of the government, as it stands – since there has been an increase in expenditures for a number of government institutions at the time of implementation of the savings policy through a reduction in the earnings of public sector employees, as well as a reduction of pensions, we see a kind of irresponsibility. So we have one obvious contrast in that book, as Mr. Vukic calls our draft budget. Also, the proposed budget, although it is said to be programming, is still linear, as we have noticed, rather than being presented as programming, given, here, Mrs Joksimovic, that the funds remain primarily linked to institutions, rather than to the projects and programmes that the government of the Republic of Serbia is conducting. We offered an argument, we offered amendments. I believe that every person here, 250 MPs, our guests, are convinced of our argument. I expect our amendments to be accepted, despite the government's view that they will not accept any of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41901	Thank you. Time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41902	Thank you. I will also refer to the explanation of the amendments and the esteemed colleague of the applicant. A little while ago, we now see an dishonesty here, because yesterday we're calling on the Fiscal Council, and now we're looking for an increase in pensions. I'll remind you that the fiscal council is asking us to further cut pensions, even opposed to having this pension increase we had the other day. Hence, there is dishonesty in calling on a source. But what I have to point out, the colleague who just explained, who has the son of a doctor of medicine, yes, it is terrible. You've only said one sentence that's been burning my ears terribly, and that's that you've tried to find a way to get a job. You know, it's something that might distinguish all of us and some of our system values from what once your option represented. There's no way, there's only an institutional path. I agree that this has been an unorthodox problem that you can institutionally accomplish something, but I am glad that Mr. Lonchar reacted there and said that during his term of office that such a thing will certainly not happen. When we talk, I say, about raising pensions, because you mentioned exactly that 61% of pensioners got some kind of increase, I'd just remind you that they got it for the first time in history, actually for the first time in eight years that increase, because until then they had absolutely nothing. What we always forget to say is that 61% of pensioners were below 25,000 dinars. That's all we have left. You actually left that for us. So 61% of the pensioners you left us to receive below 25,000 dinars and never question each other. Why, when you were so successful, did you have such a percentage of pensioners with such low income? Now the first time people got something. I agree with each individual when he says -- I've got 300 dinars anymore, it's not, I don't know, God knows what, but you know that mass needs to be earned and shared, and it shows that we've made some progress somewhere, that we've got some growth, that we could really even do this, and that we can increase these people's pensions. So hopefully next year it'll be more significant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41903	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41904	The reasons to support the compensation, the increase in the compensation I get from the government are just as thin as the story – we kept 25 thousand pensions. We kept it because it increased in 2008 with autumn, otherwise it would have been 14,000. So make up your mind. You're either against an increase in pensions, or you're going to say -- great, which is just, at least these smallest pensions, an increase made in 2008, so people are 25, so we can lie about how we leave them alone. These are increased pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41905	Thank you. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Aleksandar Senic, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41906	Thank you, Madam President. We have foreseen, by our amendment, the removal of Article 1st item, which reads – the commitments towards the beneficiaries of the budgets are carried out in proportion to the revenue and receipts of the budget. We find this member's position unacceptable. We believe that commitments towards the beneficiaries of the budget should be met by the Government in accordance with laws and other regulations or contracts, not by the authority's ability, or by the Government itself, to fill the budget. Serbia's government's obligation is to take care of its citizens, especially social assistance users, pensioners. It is an obligation to pay regular salaries to public sector employees, and hence, it follows that it still has a priority to fill the budget. We have received the answer that the amendment is not accepted, because the solution given in the bill is more comprehensive. I can only comment on one thing, and that is that, in my opinion, this practically means that the fulfilment of the legal obligations that the government should have, depending on, let's say, on the effectiveness of the tax administration. We know she's inefficient for now. So, if the tax administration manages to collect taxes on the planned amount, at the monthly level, in this case it will be paid salaries and pensions and subsidies and contributions to employees. In this way, practically at a small door is given the opportunity to suspend laws, such as the Labour Act and mandatory social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41907	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41908	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would very much like to vote for this amendment, especially as regards pensions, salaries, etc. This should provide funding in the budget. However, I think that one of the promoters is a little bit, in terms of spending, least of all hypocritical. When they ruled, say, they spent ten million euros, one of the promoters here who spoke about agriculture, and didn't come to the Agriculture Committee, so he's taking care of agriculture. Maybe pensions would have been bigger if they hadn't spent 10m euros on imports of bull seed called Rudolph and which was banned in Germany because during the insemination, and a fellow promoter from Svilinc, a large calf. It was banned, costing 10m euros and some previous MPs claim that the commission was about threem euros, was taken from the budget, taken from pensioners, so now they cannot be retired bigger. Because of these 10m euros, cows had to go to slaughter, as the large calf, after the calf, caused such damage that there was a real killing among cows, a real forced slaughter. Tenm euros and immeasurable damage and commissions of threem euros, does not come to the Committee on Agriculture, and then says – I take care of agriculture, pensioners, etc. That's why I'm saying that this amendment should not be accepted, because one of the proposings is, to say the least, a hypocrite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41909	Thank you. (Miroslav Marinkovic, from the post: I am on the Committee. Did you mean Ambassador Miroslav Marinkovic? (Marian Risticevic, from the city: No. He said no. It somehow seemed to me that at least he thought of you. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Janko Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Slobodan Homen submitted to the 11th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41910	Thank you, Your Honor. We have proposed this amendment to delete Article 2 11's position, because we simply consider it excessive. He regulates the situation, talks about what happens when incomes and budgets are reduced, how expenditures are implemented, then says they will be implemented according to priorities and obligations are laid down by the regulations and that the minimum necessary costs for smooth functioning should be provided. He's so obsessing and doesn't say anything. So either it would have to define exactly how priority obligations are determined within each division of each ministry, in which way these priorities are determined, to specify exactly what are the legal obligations that must be made out of that division and to assess the minimum necessary costs. There's no such thing. According to us, this position of this member is completely excessive. So either it's understood that every ministry has and should do what we think it should do, because what a minister does with its secretaries, assistants and others, if he doesn't know all of this, or should have a clear plan based on this member of the budget law, to say that there is a plan within each ministry and to know exactly what the priorities are, what are the legal obligations that must be respected. At the very end of the line, this member, or attitude, speaks of a very bad hypothetical situation. All the assurances are that our budget is never better and I don't see a place where this kind of attitude can be found in the law and that's what we've suggested erasing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41911	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and jointly Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senic, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41912	This should be deleted for one ten reasons, because it's not a good budget, because there's nine other good workings, but just to give one little extra reason. Here, I'm reading a sentence from Article 12. – the beneficiary of the appropriations, which in the course of the year is subject to a reduction in the selected appraisals due to the execution of the mandatory fee for the amount of the reduction, will take the appropriate measures to adapt the commitment, by proposing a reduction of the obligation, i.e. an extension of the contractual period for payment or cancellation of the contract, i.e. to propose to amend the rules which are the basis for the continuation or payment of the obligations. Well, this can do anything. So in this sentence, if anyone understood, and first of all, the writer who wrote this is possible everything, from delaying obligations, changing regulations, looking for new contracts. So the completely incomprehensible text that aims to raise the level of intransparency of this budget, and otherwise all three sentences are like that, all of them are one 300 characters. It was designed so that anyone could arbitration, or one who took power into his own hands and interpret what was right for him. I would like any of the ministers present to explain to me the meaning of the first, second and third sentences of Article 12, i.e. paragraph, since one sentence is a paragraph, to tell me why it was done, which means, what are the possibilities, which are directed, who are the potential losers, or someone by whom this regulation can be bad, and by whom it can be good? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41913	Vladimir Pavicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Joksimovic and the Honorable Ministers of Ilic and Loncar, have Mr Loncar prepare himself for one question I would like to ask him on behalf of our amendment to Article 12. Mr. Vukic said two days ago here in the Assembly – the budget is a book through which all our political, economic, social and all other areas of health are broken. I also read this article of the Bill of Budgets and Ministers I noticed that there was no indication of the transformation of the health insurance system. Whenever you came to this National Assembly, Mr. Loncar, we MPs of the New Party suggested that you consider ideas from our program of transforming the health insurance system in Serbia, to focus on the so-called "beverage" model that implies that we must act together here, that our citizens no longer have any fear of inability to treat. That every man who lives in our country, regardless of whether he's employed, not employed, whether he's paid a contribution or not, must have a free primary health care insurance and funding from the budget. In this book, as Mr. Vukic says, I have not seen any hints of orientation, not even to think about how to begin to consider or think about this kind of transformation of the health insurance system. Please tell me, Mr. Lonchar, do you have any plans, if there are, why are they not visible here in the budget and if they are invisible in the budget, can you tell us today, and what are the plans and how much you used the ideas in our program, the transformation of the system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41915	Minister Lonchart. Two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41916	Let me try to be brief. The Prime Minister is right. The budget is exactly what you said, and I also said yesterday this is a real budget, this is not a wish list, and Switzerland would probably like to have a bigger budget. So this is something that's absolutely real and it's on a real basis. That's a nice question about health care. I'll remind you of what we've done and the change of laws and everything that would have led us to do if we hadn't given specials, jobs and all that. I'll remind you we bought a gamma knife, we bought four accelerators, 60 vehicles set up for an ambulance, we fixed the system that was what it was, as much as it could, of course, that it couldn't do it overnight. What's done to the IT system is being implemented, what we've advocated, and that's going to be in the next five months, and you and anyone else are going to have an impact on what's going on in health, because so far we've been in one magic, we didn't know what's going on. I'm glad you're standing up for it. Show me where else in the world there's a set of free health care like we have here. You have in neighbouring Croatia where thousands of euros are invested per capita, you have only a mandatory type of insurance, and here for 260 euros you have a set of everything. That's where everything pays off. We can make a deal, I don't agree, so we're here for most of the laws that we've changed here, all of us. Health care is not a matter to be divided about, and I'm sure we'll keep going towards this, and we'll find the best model to solve it. I think we're on that path, we can't spend the night, every good idea is welcome. We don't have any problem. Let's see what he can do, what he can't do, what's real and what time we can do it. That's the point. A lot of things change. There's a lot more he can do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41917	Thank you. Dragan Sutanovac, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41918	I'm using the time of my authorised representative. Well, we still feel that this budget is unrealistic, Mr. Minister, and we think that the health care is damaged and that it needs to get more money through the RFO. The fact that you listed the gamma best and I don't know, four accelerators in four years. That's a little bit, I'll remind you the purchased things have been bought before. So, the health care that was inherited in 2000, you know exactly what it looked like. The vehicles were bought earlier, they were donations, it's not a theme. The theme is that it's not enough and that it has to be more. We want to help you, and you're defending yourself from us who want to strengthen the health care system. I'm so supportive of the one who's been handed over, because I think it's the only way. I totally understand, and I know the way the budget is made, and I know that when the real ones are divided everyone has their own desires and that the ministers are not friends then, they're trying to get as much out as possible for the system, but you're getting a little bit out of it. That's the thing to say. Five billion less in RFO is the problem. With five billion, they'd buy all of what they've listed so times one three four, right? So don't take this as your criticism. We want to help you, and you're against helping the health care, or we're going to help the health care, because if we suggest something, it's usually welcome here on the knife, and it's not good. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41919	Thank you. Replica, Minister of Goldibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41920	You did it again, just to talk facts. Here's to remember how the purchased ambulances, the cars paid for in advance, the company went bankrupt or I don't know what, ran out of money and no vehicle. Is that what happened? Absolutely. Case in court. The other thing about machines, do you agree, machines bought, where elections were held, whether they should have, whether they shouldn't have. And today you come to show you, the machines bought before the elections are standing in the warehouse, there's no one to work with, they don't know what they have on the machine, because it's bought a machine, and it's not bought another piece to make the machine work. So that's the facts. I'm telling you the naked facts. Were they some local, were they others, it was in previous elections. People don't know what they have in the warehouse now. Bought, put on, didn't work, didn't have anyone to work. I've been here a year and a half, telling you what we're getting out of the storeroom and what's going on. That's the facts. It's impossible that we don't want better, that we don't want any more. Let's find those funds. We have a situation that's pretty invested, it's pretty donated, but no more donations, no more, no more, there are, but not enough, absolutely compatible with the common forces to find the money, the more we find it'll be better for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41921	I thank you, Mr. Minister. By amendment, MP Dragan Sutanovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41922	Just for a little while, Mr. Minister, it's very important that you tell us what age these machines are not working today? If they were bought for the 2012 elections, so we enter into the full four years as it was realized. They're not working today either. When are they gonna work? You've been a year and a half, I know, but that government has been sitting there in a slightly different composition, the same people rule. Why would he put in office for four years? (Goldibor Lonchar, from the place: they stood in the warehouse. You just said - they're not working now. I'd like the chairman to have towards me like this... So, it's no problem I don't mind being thrown by a minister, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41923	But that's how you ask the question and ask the minister to answer you. I ask you not to speak to the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41924	So now the problem is that someone bought it, and four years it hasn't been put into service, that's not the problem. I'd like you to buy it, so it'll be put into function simultaneously. Unfortunately, the state of health isn't how everyone wants it and it's not how you want it, and we're trying to make it possible for you to have more resources. Unfortunately, the budget is obviously not like that, the health care funds are being reduced in the way we think it doesn't have to be. It's a simple thing. If you want me to tell you what's been purchased in the health care system, since I know, I'm also getting the circumstances for the magnetic resonance, and for the acelerators and for the multi-slice scanner and for the new agio halls, I can list you as much as you want, mammographer, I know all that well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41925	Thank you. Replica, Minister of Goldibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41926	I have to tell you, you didn't understand me, we found them in the warehouse when we put them to use, they didn't have doctors to work, and we begged us to put them in institutions that had doctors to work. So they're working today, but we found them in the warehouse. You didn't understand. All that was bought and all it came from a donation, all that you listed, and magnetic resonances and mammographs, the mammographs were mostly from donations and scanners and everything. But it can't be bought once and for all, it has its own term of duration that has to be bought again, because it goes to the newer generations, and it's just that these appliances are being spent. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. ) Thank you for what you're looking for, but this is reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41927	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41928	... And of course we'll fight for more money and make it better and it'll certainly get better.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41929	Thank you. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Mr Jovan Markovic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Slobodan Homen. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41930	Thank you, Chairman, dear ministers. Our amendment envisioned the removal of Article 1st Article 12's position which is completely confusing to you, because we do not know in what way it wants to ensure a stable budget and stable financing and to ensure the inability to make commitments greater than those planned for those liabilities financed from incomes that are not direct expenditure of the budget. In our view, this had to be defined differently because we do not understand how this member says – obligations can only be made to the level of performance of these revenues and expenditures if the level of revenue achieved and receipts is less than the approved appraisals. So, you can't know how much it's going to happen, you're planning something you get approval of what the appraisals are and that's it. As far as it's planned and approved, you can be in charge. I don't understand how anyone could ever be more in debt than what was planned and approved. He can't know in advance. When it is planned and approved, then they plan on what revenue will be. You've got some seasonal income, sometimes some income stops a little bit, so it's getting stronger, you can't get on that basis, and you can't take over the dynamics. You make commitments at the beginning, or you have some plan at the beginning of the year that you will make certain commitments, what you will realize, what you will do. So, in our opinion, this attitude is completely excessive, vague, and it needs to be deleted from this law. It's bad that this attitude is repeated year after year, so this whole member and with these attitudes is repeated and clearly there's no will to introduce order and be clear about who can and how much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41931	Thank you. The 13th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic, joint MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Mr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić and Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41932	Article 13 defines that before reporting new obligations in accordance with Article 56(3). The budget system law, in the budget implementation system, must be reported by budget users and not by the commitments made from the previous financial year. So, future users themselves should report that they took something and didn't pay for it last year. Is there anyone who can control this budget? Who cares about spending control? How can someone take on commitments that are not foreseen by the budget? In what country is it the first time in history where someone who works for 25 hours a day can happen? This is at the level of what the health minister said just now that it is with us for 260 euros contributes to total free health care, where is complete free health care? What part of health care is free? It's paid, only what's primarily minimum is free of charge. Any more serious request is paid if you don't know. If you don't pay, I tell you, Serbian citizens are paying for participation for us, in fact, for every review of 50 dinars, as I recall, fortunately I don't need to go to the doctor, but for any operation these participations are much bigger. Ask the people around you. Ask people who have real health problems. So our proposal is, the system predicts primary health care for free. Of course everything else is paid. It's perfectly normal, but you can't say that today in Serbia health care is free. It's never been in Tito's time, let alone today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41933	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by Dr Miroslav Marinkovic as an amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41934	I'm one of the promoters, and we've also submitted an amendment to Article 13 that we've provided for him to be deleted. A colleague before me explained very closely what this means. However, although I try to understand what the writer was going to say, I realized here the money will be given to the one who is estimated to be to win, it doesn't matter if it does. In which way he will register the pre-determined and not the obligations carried out, etc. So, as far as I'm aware of the financial laws, it's a way of controlling the movement of money, so in this case, certain funds, and these funds are also being monitored closely, and in the event that this is not possible we wouldn't have a realisation of tax collection, or other forms of taxation that the state assumes on itself, or attributes to itself as a result and the possibility to make its own income. So Article 13 represents one serious contradiction that can be resolved by deleting a member, and in the explanation given to me, it is the main member by whom the allocation of funds is carried out and the amendment is not accepted because the draft law sets out the rules for the use of the approved funds and the general character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41935	Thank you. Finally, the amendment promoter, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ms. Joksimovic, the Honorable Ministers of Loncar and Mr. Tasovac, welcome to the National Assembly, since Mr. Tasovac is here and we have had the opportunity to discuss these amendments previously with Mr. Sertic, Vujović, and Mr. Lončar participated yesterday in the debate and Mrs. Joksimović and Mrs. Mihajlović, Mr. Ilic, here is an additional argument for what Mr. Zivkovic said about our amendment to Article 13. to focus on Mr. Tasovac, Minister of Culture and Information. Good afternoon. The 2016 budget plans less subsidies for public media services, but it is possible that these funds are not sufficient to operate this system. The grant for RTS and RTV amounts to four billion dinars, and I now remind you Minister Tasovac that we... (Zoran Babic, from the post: About the amendment. On the amendment to Article 13, Mr. Babic. Of course it's about the amendment. Mr. Babic doesn't follow closely. So, Mr. Tasovac, you must remember that we are in the amendment debate in August, when you represented those reform media laws in your court, we were saying -- let's have 100 percent of the budget financing for public services, to get out of this kind of problem we're facing, Mr. Tasovac, and after adopting what you call them, reform media laws. Do you now see, for example, Mr. Tasovac, that you have made some mistakes?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41937	I see, Mr. Pavicevic, for a minute and 44 seconds, and you didn't say one word about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41938	All right. So, does Mr. Tasovac miss "The Impression of the Week"? I have to ask that here... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41939	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I know, and I suppose you're thrilled to see Mr. Tasovec in the great Hall of the National Assembly, but I still won't let you talk outside of that amendment you filed. I'd ask Minister Tasovec to give you an autograph in the break, because I see you're delighted with his character and his work. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41940	Since it is, in fact, the essence of the amendment, not depending on what the member refers to, intransparency, as far as I understand it, I don't think that's really an unknown fact, because, if anything, this budget is consistent with international financial institutions, with the same one you lost in 2011 because of the flagrant violation of all agreements. So I'll repeat chapter 32. I know that sometimes it's not interesting, it's a technical matter, but it's a matter of financial control that seeks to provide a single system and rules. So internal audits, internal controls, the same criminal-legal protection of all our state's public funds, and at the local level, among other things, at the central level and at all. You know very well that there is also a budget inspection. Therefore, our obligation is also to strengthen the mechanisms of budgetary inspection under Chapter 32. So, I really don't think there are any objections to the non-transparency of the budget or to the lack of coordination in terms of both internal control and all that we take as a total control of public finances.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41941	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41942	Just to be clear, there's no misunderstanding. Except for the participation of our citizens to all interventions, to all that is done, they pay nothing further, so there is no dilemma.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41943	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41944	Yours is an absolutely legitimate right to be against the state's exit from the media's ownership structure. Also, if you represent the position that you are the ones who need to interfere in the editorial policy of the private media with the majority foreign ownership, as I say, that's your right. It is simply not common in European frameworks. There are certain countries where it is dominant, but we simply don't share the same values. (Balša Bozovic, from town: That's right, Minister. We don't share the same system of values. Well, you see how we agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41945	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Alexander Jerkov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41946	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Article 158(7) I'm sorry, it's not attitude 7, it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41947	Well, since you find the member by which I broke the Rules of Procedure, call again. Thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Jovan Markovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41948	Thank you, Mr. Becic. You have violated several members, Art. 107th and 108th, for the simple reason that you do not allow MPs who seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure to explain their injury and do not want to wait five seconds to tell you what position the member is in question. They have the right to do so, we all have the right to do so, and for this reason you cannot tell anyone – when you remember, then come forward, it is your duty as chairman to say it – please feel free to look at what member it is and what position it is, because there are two minutes if the breach of the Rules of Procedure is done. Two minutes, somebody can look.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41949	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. Mr Bozovicu, if you, as an MP, realize that I, as chairman, have injured the Rules of Procedure and at the same time know which member I have injured, look for a member... (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I did it. Yes, you did, Mr. Bozovic. So look for that member and point that out to me. But you can't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and then we wait a few minutes for you to find a member by which I hurt the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the scene: a few minutes, Mr. Becic? So now I say a few minutes, and it was over 30 seconds. While you were looking, I said that at the moment you find yourself again, you call and point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Have you found any members now? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. ) The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41950	It was more than 30 seconds in your parallel world where citizens live happily. So, Article 158, point 9. I'm sorry, I said wrong attitude seven. I should've been the MPs of the ruling coalition to come in and talk to you about anything, because I'm not even answering my phone for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, it says in this article – the legislator of the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41951	You're finally gonna tell me where I broke the Rules of Procedure, you want to explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41952	I'm trying, Mr. Becic. Therefore, the legislator, or the authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes, with the fact that the total duration of the search in particular cannot be longer than three hours. Is the Government of the Republic of Serbia... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41953	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Let me explain. I've come to understand what your apparition of the Rules of Procedure is, and now I have to give an explanation. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I don't think you understand anything.) I understand, and because you don't understand anything, I can't help you. As you noticed, none of the three ministers, Mr. Loncar first received a replica, and Mrs. Joksimovic and Mr. Tasovac spoke less than a minute. The exposure of Mrs Joksimovic lasted less than a minute and Mr Tasovac was less than a minute, a total of two minutes. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: in your parallel world. Miss Jerkov, you're throwing again. It's rude, but it's your home education. The 14th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, magistrate Dr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karić, Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: "Blight of the Rules of Procedure!" Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41954	Mr. Becic, it has been your obligation to ask me, in accordance with Article 103, if I wish to be declared by the Assembly, and instead you choose to insult the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41955	Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you. Mrs. Jerkov, if someone throws out of place and does not allow the Assembly to work on an important law, on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2016, it is a domestic question. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41956	I'd like you to make sure the finance minister is present when we speak...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41957	Mr. Zivkovicu, there are two ministers in the O.R., representatives of the government, all ministers represent this law, so it is not necessary for the finance minister to be in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41958	So first, don't waste my time. Secondly, of course, with all due respect to Minister Tasovac and Minister Joksimovic, but they can't be someone we're talking to on this subject. I asked the finance minister yesterday to tell me one loan that was paid in four years, he ran away. I'm asking the health minister of Loncar where that free health care in Serbia is, he's running away. So now we need to talk about Article 14, about carrying out expenditure on goods and services of the beneficiaries of the budget, etc., and then Mr. Tasovac will give me an answer to any questions. Well, don't put government members in an awkward position. Mr. Tasovac has today to answer to a letter from the Director of Public Service, but his job is not... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41959	Mr. Zivkovic, I must return you to the amendment. I am absolutely sure, as I am sure the citizens of Serbia know, that both Minister Jadranka Joksimovic and Minister Tasovac are very competent to talk about the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2016, and I am sure they will gladly give answers to your questions. So if you were to talk about the amendment and the text of your amendment, you would get those answers. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I want to ask a question. Unfortunately, the time has passed. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41960	Mr. Chairman, Rule 107(1) of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. - the dignity of the National Assembly. I'd like to talk to you, Mr. Vienna. Mr. Becic, I'm speaking to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41961	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41962	Rule 107(1) of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I am shocked when Zoran Zivkovic, a respected colleague, Zoran Zivkovic, a folk MP, assesses the expertise, yet says: "They are not expert in talking to him about a subject, and to whom?" Minister Jadranka Joksimovic, a generation student at the Faculty of Political Sciences, Mr Ivan Tasovac, whose career I am very small and irrelevant to speak of. But, watch out, when Zoran Zivkovic asks a question of expertise and competence, and it's about an individual subject, and imagine at what height and with what intellectual thunder, people who were students of the generation, people whose cv can't read, let alone follow it or talk to them. I ask that you no longer allow anyone to offend anyone in this National Assembly, but even when he tries something like that, at least to qualify, at least to say what and any degree and in any way and in any way and in which year he has acquired and only then to discuss the competence and expertise of the ministers or anyone in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41963	Thank you, Mr. Granny. You must understand that in the absence of arguments, we have in these two days adversities of insult, MPs of the opposition resorting and thus trying to insult members of the government who are guests in the National Assembly, who explain the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2016. That's how I understand it. You saw my attempt to return Mr. Zivkovic to the amendment. I warned him exactly what you said, so I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. I thank you. Miss Jerkov, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41964	I don't know, Mr. Becic, if you're familiar with article 100. The Rules of Procedure and do you know that you, as chairman at this time, do not have the right to talk about the arguments made by the MPs, but only to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That you judge what the MPs of the opposition say and what they don't say you can when you answer the word, when one of the other vice presidents or president of the assembly gives you the word because that article 100...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41965	Thank you. I know the Rules of Procedure very well, in the last 20 years, at least I've learned that, if not something else, like some other MPs who don't have a shred of domestic education. It is my duty, as chairman, that for the violation of the Rules of Procedure pointed out by Mr Babić, I give an explanation to Mr Babić, which is why I interrupted or did not interrupt someone in the presentation and based on an objection relating to this exhibition, so I only gave the explanation and explanation to Mr Babic, which is why I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure. If that explanation doesn't satisfy you, there's nothing I can do about it. Here you are, Mr. Granny, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place, said, "You did not ask me again whether the congregation should plead." ( b) Do you want the congregation to declare itself? Yeah. I thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: it was yours to ask me. ) Miss Jerkov, I already know very well that you want me to do it at any moment and in any case give the service a signal to put it in the record. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41966	Rules of Procedure, Rule 27. I say in advance, Mr. Becic, that I will not ask to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure, although I will suggest it is not the first time, it is to vote on the violations of the Rules of Procedures of those Members of Parliament to still be obliged to at least sit in the hall and vote on it, but to then have a bit of an obstacle to work while this part of the SNS Parliament, along with its partners, sits diligently and worthly, as well as all these days and months behind us and to vote on these violations of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41967	Miss Jerkov, don't throw it away. Your throwing and waving hands doesn't impress anyone in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41968	What I was about to say, Mr. Chairman, was the advertised violation of the Rules of Procedure with a desire to silence you, so it was re-adverted to the violation of the Rules of Procedure to keep the ministers quiet. What kind of understanding of democracy is that? What is this understanding of parliament? I expect now and the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that the MPs of the SNS will be kept silent and that we all remain silent and that only one handful, and we see, is less and less, the vice presidents leave them, the MPs leave, most importantly, and the citizens continue to leave them, everyone else to keep quiet, only that they can speak. I think it's the humiliation of parliament, the humiliation of parliament as an institution. That ministers can't talk, that vice presidents or presidents of the assembly can't speak, that MPs don't have the right to speak, only that individuals can speak, and those who are at the will of Mrs Jerkov. I think it's the humiliation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41969	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41970	I think you must respect all the members of the Rules of Procedure on Labour and in particular Article 27 and point out these things and such anomalies of understanding of parliamentaryism and democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41971	I thank you, Mr. Granny. I've already said everything. I don't think I need to give you any further explanation. We'll be back for the amendment. Mr. Risticevic, by amendment. Then you must wait for the amendment promoter, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, to speak. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Mrs. Joksimovic and the Honorable Minister Tasovac, Mr. Mijailovic, here, I have three specific questions concerning Article 14 and the amendment to Article 14 of this Bill, one question for Mrs. Joksimovic and two questions for Mr. Tasovac. Here, for Mrs. Joksimovic. If he can tell me - what happens, for example, if the beneficiaries of the Republic of Serbia's budget in carrying out expenditures and expenditures counter the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article of the Budget Law? Here's a specific question about our amendment. Mr. Tasovac, here are your first questions. What is happening, Mr. Tasovac, if the beneficiaries of the budget of the local authorities in carrying out expenditures and expenditures counter the provisions of Articles 1 and 2. Budget bill? I would very much like, gentlemen, to have our guests, distinguished ministers, ministers and ministers answer us, for example. on these two issues and then let us make sure that the culture and information minister, Mr. Becic, answers these questions and the competence of Minister Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41973	Would you like some of the amendment, Mr. Pavicevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41974	It's all according to the amendment, Mr. Becic. I quote the views of Article 14 of this draft budget law – with one add-on. Of course, I appreciate it when someone during their studies, as was the case with Mrs Joksimovic, was a student of the generation and bravo for it. But, gentlemen, we are in a political institution within which every MP, no matter what education this man is, has the right to speak here. We can't introduce any other criteria now, except those that apply to our National Assembly, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41975	Time. Thank you. The amendment is proposed by Dr Miroslav Marinković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41976	Dear President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I am one of the motions of this amendment to Article 14, which we asked to delete Article 14. There's more reason. Before I explain this in more detail on a practical case, I would point out, however, that the property of the human race is reason. I think that each of us who proposes these amendments, that we have invested one serious piece of work, our knowledge and knowledge of our associates in order to help lead the budget, one financial document, to perfection, to make it better for everyone. I'm sorry that every amendment of us is seen as a direct attack on character and action, on character, on function, and on not knowing what else. And we're looking for a simple answer. Since I was also in the ruling coalition, I tell you right now I don't understand you, let us say what we need to say, and you can do it when you have to vote, because you have a majority, because we did, and we paid the price because we thought the same thing. Do everything that, so we can function normally. This member of the budget does what the laws mainly do, and I will also list the Mining Act, the Agricultural Encouragement Act, etc. They're all doing one serious concentration, meaning the devasting function of local self-government. Look, we're all MPs here, and we all come from somewhere in the middle, someone bigger, someone smaller, but we're all representatives of the people, and that same environment we come back. That same environment to let you know if you didn't know. Slowly in this way, it loses all its authority, and then you'll go to sleep in your midst, and you won't be able to organize life and create prosperity for people who don't have to be the same as in other parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41977	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Replication to the presentation of the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41978	Thank you. So, there's no problem in creating a bad atmosphere, I don't view it as an attack on a character, or an act of who was a good student, who wasn't a citizen can and not just a student, but even more important than how he performed his public office. I am doing my public office in such a way as to respect Parliament, that I think I have answered at least a dozen questions today. How pleased you are with the answers I don't know, but in any case, if we're just going to talk about competences, academic experience as references, then we could almost all get out. I don't think and I don't experience parliament that way. I think it's a matter of one discussion and debate. On the other hand, and I have to say that there are a number of amendments that have been submitted, and that have almost wiped out the entire budget, too, a question of some understanding and parliamentaryism and competence, but I'm not going to answer that. And as far as your question is concerned about the amendment, if any of the provisions contrary to the attitude of the 1st and 2nd of the law that happens then, I think that's the part that's simply part of maybe the general education and knowledge of even institutions. You have a budget inspection, and then those funds are mostly going back to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41979	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. By amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41980	Of course. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Babic, you've been shocked, and I'm surprised, and my fellow farmer is asking for maltenes to be served by the finance minister as if the finance minister on the wine map or don't give God on the menu. It's just unforgivable and you say there's a college missing. If you noticed someone was educated in colleges, someone was educated in fields or factories, and God trained me in the street. So, Mr. Babic, don't be surprised for these reasons, I think that this proposal and that amendment are not even for pasture in that area and that this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41981	Thank you. On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Well, you called late, Mr. Minister, we've already moved on to the second amendment. Miss Jerkov, when she's done her exposure, then you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41982	Therefore, your willingness to leave discretionary rights, transparency, or intransparency on which the Fiscal Council speaks, and your political favoration, or political retribution to citizens, depending on how they vote, is seen in Article 14. The draft budget on the implementation of expenditure on goods and services and on local self-governments that would not do so, where you say that as long as the beneficiaries of the budgets of the local authorities do not act, that is to say, against the provisions of Articles 1 and 2 of this Article. Be careful, now the finance minister can suspend the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget temporarily. So he can do it if he doesn't like the government in some local self-government, and if he likes the government in some local self-government, he doesn't have to do it. So now it's the same thing, I really don't know how to talk, Mr. Vujovic doesn't have, it's the same thing we talked about with Mr. Vujovic in the morning part of the session, about the AP Vojvodina. Mr Vujovic will not transfer funds to the AP Vojvodina, the only happy thing, is that he admitted that the Republic of Serbia has had a fall in income, although here for three days you convince us that incomes are incredibly high and higher, the highest in recent history. So the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should hope that in those municipalities where the SNS fails to seize power, that it means that the minister will suspend the transfer of funds for their life needs temporarily, and in those municipalities where the SNS is able to seize power, the minister will not do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41983	Thank you. Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41984	Article 15 deals with public undertakings and other forms of organisation, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia and they are obliged by this member to share at least 50% by 30 November of the current financial year, and the public agencies are 100% of the profits, i.e. the excess revenue over expenditure, according to the final account for the year of payment to the Republic of Serbia's budget. In the third position, it says – exclusively from Article 1 and 2 of this article are some exceptions. I would like Minister Tasovac to give me as detailed an explanation as possible of the exceptions and how these exceptions can be included in the implementation of the 2016 Budget Law, and in particular I ask for the company's position of 2nd member who makes a decision on the achievement of the profits of the imbalances and the available revenue used to finance the investments. That would be very good to hear. If Mr. Tasovac says it's not his profession, I respect, of course, everything he's done in life and there's no need to speak here in front of the people who met him, who met the existence of the Tasovec two years ago when he became minister. Some others know what Tasovac did ten years ago and 15 years ago, so there's no need to talk about it, but you're yourself set up by whoever sent you here, and that's the Prime Minister in a position to answer questions that we'll agree on, what level of knowledge is, it's not a shame, it's simply not your portfolio. But in order to show senselessness, to conduct a debate without the finance minister, at least if the Prime Minister doesn't have the courage to be there to defend the budget, I urge you to give me an answer to the asked question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41985	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41986	I could do with the kind of amendment you have put on whether it is deleted or deleted, so that I can simply answer you – it is rejected or – it is rejected. But I won't answer you in that way, simply the government can decide that this company if it's earned a profit to reinvest it, if it was your question. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: It was not a question. ) In that case, as was your question, means the amendment - is rejected or - is rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41987	Thank you. The word is proposed by the amendment by Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President of Mr Becic, the Honorable Mrs Joksimovic, the Honorable Minister of Tasovac, Mr Mijailovic, please now Mr Tasovec to answer my two questions concerning our amendment to Article 15 as thoroughly as possible. The draft budget law, not so concisely, Minister Tasovac in two words – is rejected, but fundamentally, to answer my questions regarding our amendment to Article 15. Draft budget law. Where is Minister Tasovac, here's to answer, basically, 30,000 jobs gone... . (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the site: Please don't turn off my microphone. [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41989	I have to interrupt you, Mr. Pavicevic, that's what MPs are asking of me, because you're not talking about the amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Here, I will read you the amendment. ) Read me the amendment, please. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I will read, but please turn on my microphone. You'll get the word, read the amendment. Here you go, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41990	Here, honored gentlemen, companies whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, or in which the Republic of Serbia is involved, Mr Becic, etc., etc., I am.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41991	You read the article, Mr. Pavicevic, not your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41992	Article 15, Mr. Bechuqu, three stands. I am now calling on myself, so I have submitted an amendment to the November 2015 APR report, Mr Becic, and I ask Minister Tasovac – how he explains that he is a member of the report. Bills in the budget, the loss of companies grew by 13.8%. Here, Minister Tasovac to answer my question. I, honored gentlemen, Mr. Becic, even though I was a generation student at the Faculty of Political Sciences of Belgrade University, never call on that. It's not my qualification to work in the National Assembly. I'm a MP here, I'm talking about every point, I don't brag about it, gentlemen. Here I boast of the persistent, dedicated work of the central political institution. In the sanctuary, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41993	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Just because of this fact, Mr Pavicevic, I expect you to talk about the amendment and have one quality debate, a discussion about the amendment submitted, not everything and everything, and the greetings of certain members of the government and the MPs, chairing the others. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41994	What you're talking about means, first of all, it has nothing to do with Article 15, that's one thing. Another thing, if we're talking about getting public enterprises, they were far bigger this year than any previous year. What I wanted to ask you, not only for my own sake, but also for your simple, as you like to say, citizens, people who have spoken to you, everything, don't shout so much. If I may ask, because people have a problem because they have to hang up, they simply reduce the tone on TV, and then they can simply lose their concentration to follow what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41995	Thank you. The Republic has a minister, Mrs. Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41996	I still don't really understand what you're actually asking as a question, because I think you're the most fundamental in the introduction somehow, and at least you're fundamental to what the question is. If in this way you do not support the presence of any government minister, then you really have a problem with understanding and political culture and parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41997	The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41998	In fact, in Article 15, paragraph 1, we are... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: You don't even know what an anomaly is, just look in the mirror.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u41999	Please allow Mr. Petric to explain his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42000	To repeat in Article 15(1), it is mentioned that public undertakings must pay at least 50% of their profits to the Republic of Serbia's budget. We have introduced a change of "20%". In exceptional and direct revenues, profits from public agencies amounting to 1.6 billion dinars were planned and some of the profits of public enterprises amounting to eight billion dinars. Public undertakings that have an obligation to pay 50% of their profits by 30 November 2016, out of the other 50%, will not be able to settle material costs and investment maintenance, and we can expect an increase in public service prices, which will be approved by the government of the Republic of Serbia. However, unless it approves them, then balance sheets and successes will be seen as negative and will therefore be declared losers. How do we expect public enterprises to be co-financed, when at least 50% of their profits are taken away? This is very important because of the very existence of public enterprises and this approach leads to citizens eventually covering it all out of their pockets and I hope that you will think very carefully and give an adequate answer to our amendment why it has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42001	The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Mr Jovan Markovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 15th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Homen and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Ivan Karic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Mr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Dusan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42002	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 15 discusses the obligations of public enterprises and companies and other forms of organisation, that part of its profits be paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We have only tried, colleague Petrovic and I, to specify the position of 2nd to say – companies whose founder is the Republic of Serbia or in which the Republic of Serbia has a share in ownership, are obliged to pay at least 50% of the proportion of profits in the final account for 2015, which is regulated by companies in accordance with the law... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Shule, how was the concert? (Dear Shutanovac, from the city: My father-in-law hailed you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42003	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, I think that because of what you've done now, you might get a rewarrant, and that's a disfellowshipping from this session. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Why? ) Because you cannot approach the chair table without calling the chairman. It's in the Rules of Procedure, if you didn't know, Mr. Sutanovac. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I am not afraid.) But your threats can't scare you, Mr. Sutanovac. Threats, Mr. Sutanovac. Go on, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42004	I'm asking you to return some of the time, for an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42005	I'll count your time, don't worry. Here you go, Mrs. Karavidic, and I apologize for Mr. Sutanovac's actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42006	So our intention was to specify, that is, the dynamics of the payment of part of the profits of companies in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and we believe that this dynamic should be determined by the competent Ministry of Finance Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42007	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42008	Mr. Becic, before I explain the amendment, we've all got material that's messed up and where exactly the order is known...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42009	Mr. Sutanovac, it's the government's opinion, it's not the material that has the chairman. You have to understand the difference, and you have to understand the difference that by article 109, the warning is given to a MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly president.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42010	I threatened you, you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42011	Also, I'm not going to repeat what you've said here and the threats you've made, but I'm asking you to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42012	Dear colleagues, my amendment is to Article 15 concerning the amendment of a colleague who had just spoken, as regards public enterprises. Namely, respected MPs, respected citizens, in the 2016 budget, the government envisioned revenues based on the profits of public enterprises of eight billion. Someone will say it's a big sum and of course it is, however, a catastrophicly small sum compared to the year before, when the government in the budget had 15 billion and 300 million dinars. We then warned that this figure of 15 billion and 300 million dinars could devastate public enterprises and that instead of being able to reinvest profits, we came into a situation to iron budget revenues and expenditures and show that our deficit was reduced, that we would take all the profits from these companies and basically leave them without the possibility of investment for next year. I'll also use time as an authority in front of the party. So, with a bad policy, an intervention that was enormous last year for political points, we came into a situation that next year we have twice as much income based on the tax on the profits of public enterprises, i.e. profits. And what happens if there is a situation to privatise Telecom? In that situation, of course the government will have a lot of money for its political campaign, but these eight billion will be even less. So we think this is a bad way to run economic policy, i.e. public enterprises. I'm sure all the directors of public enterprises, trade unions, employees of public enterprises, no matter what they think of them, are against having so many arrests and it's not good. It would be logical for us to support it, to take everything from them, but those who understand themselves a little bit in the economy know that it can't work that way. In Serbia, we boast that we had up to almost 61% of pensioners who had 25,000 pensions, and today we have 61% of pensioners who have 25,375 dinar pensions. So it's no longer 25,000 than these 375 dinars, so they have 12 dinars more. In order to make a good income side, I think that this sum should be defined and allow businesses to make more profits through the work, and only then to be taken away from them, not in the way it is intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42013	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go, Mrs. Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42014	Thank you. Well, now that we're already on the ground of public enterprises and it seems to me that the fear that exists with you will be devastated, then I'm really sorry to have to say that you can best talk about this devastation, I don't mean by a mad person now personally, but you are aware that the Serbian government is ending a very difficult process of privatising a state-owned company that hasn't ended in the last 15 or 10 years. In the meantime, it seems to me that the debts that were made only for these companies that we should privatise have accumulated to about four billion euros, more than visible technological backlog, excess labour force, loss of market, these are all the things that are the fluids and the result of the work of an irresponsible government as governments were before us, I'm not going to name them at all, there were more of them. You were mostly the headquarters of that government. Therefore, these concerns about public enterprises where the crowds of party personnel, therefore, which have become the greatest burden of our country and our budget, are not easy to resolve, you know very well. On the other hand, you said you'd sell Telecom so you'd have money for the campaign. I'll remind you that when you broke the arrangement with the IMF in 2011, it was a pre-election year, you know, all the obligations and flagrant violation of the commitments that you had from the IMF arrangement and the breakthrough and legal constraints related to public debt, they led to your election result actually being exactly proportional to the level of public debt. It will not happen with this government and the level of public debt will not be exactly proportional to the number of votes we will win in the elections. This is a lesson that we have learned from you, which we have learned from. Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42015	I'll read it in a row. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. ) Replica, just to read in order – Zoran Babic, Mira Petrovic, Dragan Sutanovac. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I have a replica on... There's no replica. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place, how is there no?) I followed the discussion. And what ministers don't need to answer at all, or if they answer, they immediately... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: the second only.) ) All right, Zoran Babic, Mira Petrovic, Dragan Sutanovac. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: It's not a question of answer. ) Zoran Babic, Mira Petrovic, Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42016	Thank you, Madam President, and I'll thank Mr. Becic for the intervention. There's no need, Mr. Becic, even though you've seen that finger well in the air, those threats, but I'm not afraid of Dragan Sutanovac now. I wasn't afraid of him even when he was much more powerful because of party functions and functions in the state. But what I wanted to intervene for, and that's a totally wrong interpretation. The fellow who submitted the amendment said – This is how I, with this draft budget, almost all the profits of public enterprises go to Serbia's budget. There's no reason to keep your head down. I listened very carefully to the amendment promoter and you said almost all the profits go into the budget. How can 50%, how can 50% get out of all profits? Half is half, but almost all profit, but half is almost not all profit. So it's another one of those very bad interpretations, I guess, in order for some political gain. However, according to the SNS, per the understanding of the ordinary normal man in Serbia, public enterprises were founded, whether local or republican, founded by local self-government units, and established by the Republic of Serbia's government. Getting what these public enterprises are making, who do they make for? For themselves, for party employees or budget rights and for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? I think they are making a profit, not to share thirteen or fourteen salaries, not to share salaries like that before the elections, perhaps more intensely just to get support from employees in a public enterprise, but to make profits for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who gave them the opportunity, the honor to work in these public enterprises, to work in the interest and for the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Where will they return the profits if they do not return to the Serbian budget? Is there someone private in the budget? Of course not. On the other hand, the government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to raise results and make the results of public enterprises far better. See now the results of “Nikola Tesla” airport. See what the value is now at the moment of “Nikola Tesla” airport. See how much profit "Nikola Tesla" airport was in 2014. I'll tell you. Three point four billion dinars. When did the airport at the time of the former government produce such results? Four commas of two million passengers were transported, i.e. at the airport "Nikola Tesla". In October of the month, we welcomed four million passengers. When have such results been achieved at Nikola Tesla Airport in the past during the former regime? And now that basic understanding of the work of public enterprises, will they work for those who don't know what anomaly means? It's enough to go to the bathroom or to the nearest mirror so they'll find out what the anomaly means, but now they don't want to see and turn their heads from such results that public enterprises achieve. Of course, the profits will be paid back to those who founded them, which are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42017	You want a replica? (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ( b) Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42018	I'm a 107th advertiser. Madam President, you were not listening, you had a dialogue with the secretary, I presume. If someone in parliament is sending their colleagues to go to the bathroom and look in the anomaly mirror, I think it would be your turn to react. I think it would really be your turn to react, because if someone's got the wrong mirror at home and they're looking at each other in the wrong mirror every day, it doesn't mean that we need to go watch the anomalies in the toilet. So, the whole session has an unusual flow, and I'm glad that you're back here, but I expect you to lead in the way that the Rules of Procedure requires, which is that when someone insults us, no matter what side he sits on, to distract him that, at the very least, you tell him to look himself in the mirror, if that's normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42019	You were right, I spoke to the Deputy Secretary General, that is, but I really don't know what to tell you. I'll apologize to you on my behalf for not paying attention and I would have reacted if I'd heard something offensive, that's what I'd say. I'm sorry, I wasn't really listening, I wasn't listening. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) The word is according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42020	Article 107(1) It's invaluable when someone in this room and in this room is sending messages, very bad messages and messages to attack women just because she's a member of a different political option, at this point, a member of the SNS. When someone gets their ears closed, my words aren't addressed to him either, but I don't know why he found himself. What about those people in this room who, instead of discussing the budget, are going to discuss amendments, keep sending very bad messages, insulting messages about other MPs sitting here in this room doing their job? What about these MPs? What about those people who use social networks in the most brutal way possible from this room by attacking women, as Mr. Sutanovac does, as he did in the days behind us, or as Mr. Balsa Bozovic does? Is there any consequence of such behaviour and such a relationship with both parliament and other MPs? I think we should all respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I carefully take care of what I say and to whom I give spoken words, and those who have been called around the mirror and all that, so what shall I do? I haven't sent anyone a message, but it looks like those who found themselves in it are heading in line for the first mirror.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42021	I apologize to you, too. As far as social networks are concerned, you know that I would react, because I was the victim ten days ago brutally and as a woman and as a politician and whatever you want and with such a taste and comparison with prostitutes, yes, probably but I don't object. It's funny to someone, it's untasteful, what to do, but I would react because I would protect other women. That's why I've given up social networks forever, and no one has protected me in this House, or women, or men. I apologize for misusing the pay phone, but that's right. An MP from the opposition ranks showed me comments on my account, which crossed every possible line. Well, now I'm using this controversy of MPs, every possible limit, let's say jokes about women who are untasteful. That I have rights. I know it doesn't feel right, because I'm a woman who's a member of the SNS who's not a woman of the mainstreams who determines the public opinion you're attacking and who you're not attacking. It doesn't feel right, but it's true, what do we do? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Can I do the Rules of Procedure? ) Of course you can, you can do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42022	If we're in the middle of a session where people's MPs and women say who's offended and who hasn't protected everything, who's all compared to prostitutes, who's all insulted on birth basis, I'd be begging, when you're praying for protection for yourself, to first protect the people's letters, or when you complain that no one has protected you, to pay attention to what they are...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42023	Which member am I to find?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42024	Which you want 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42025	Is that who I want? Then sit down, thank you. You have shown now how you feel about women's rights in this House, because you have an apology and an excuse for attacking me. You say - and I never say - and I say. I waited weeks and weeks of living to tell everyone if we came to that topic, what it looks like, and how women here look at what political party they belong to, so they can either be solidarityd or not solidarityd. So we either have the same criteria, or we don't have them at all, and we don't act here any... We're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure of all 250 members, because the MP told me – choose whatever you want. Please. I can talk some time, too, 'cause obviously I'm not a body, I'm a brain. The word is made by the People's MP Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42026	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I return to the agenda and return to the amendment to Article 15. We at PUPS believe that the money is currently lying in public enterprises and that there is a need to look for funds to fill the budget. Our President Milan Krkobibic is headed by the public enterprise that is most successful this year. "Serbia's Post Office" will earn over 30m euros in profits. Last year we put 70% into the budget, but that's why many other public enterprises didn't pay anything, even though the profits came true. The problem is that there are really many people in politics who have been sitting there for years and have never asked questions about their responsibilities or their abilities. Secondly, I see that everyone is dealing with pensioners today and taking care of pensioners, 60 percent, or a million who are protected or not protected. Let's finally agree whether pensions have ever been increased or pensions have not been increased. In 2008, pensions of 10% were raised to the pressure of the PUPS, but only because they were then brought to a level of the smallest of pensions. Retirement level was 46% of the salary. That's how that biggest shift was made. That's right, that's when the pensions were raised. It is also true that they have now been raised by 1.25 and it is true that the PUPS has supported the reduction of both wages and pensions, but only as one short-term measure. It could have lasted and it could have lasted a year, a year and a half, but the funds have to be found on the other side. So we think that the real funds should be sought there, should be sought in public enterprises, public enterprises like NIS, which doesn't pay anything, and as far as I know, we own 48-49%. So they should go back to the Founder, and the Founder will later manage those funds. I think really, since we fought so many years, these 10 years, for pensioners, for the protection of their rights, like a million people lost their jobs, at this point, or last year when these measures were taken, millions and 700,000 pensioners were in the same situation, whether the pension would be or not, and that was the main problem. That was why we agreed to adopt and apply this short-term measure, where only the funds were present, and to achieve this financial consolidation. So I'd still ask you to leave the pensioners to us, because we've been doing it for years. You've all thought of them now, because it's an interesting political moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42027	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42028	Let me just repeat the story about how to take care of pensioners and who's in charge of it. We have a banal misunderstanding here, but deep. The story is that 25,000 minimum pensions are something that will not be touched, and because pensions were increased in 2008 in a coalition with PUPS and with the right of PUPS to have its own programme, with the obligation of coalition partners to meet, those 25,000 you were proud to leave behind, and the rest you took, would be 14,000, not 25. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Kidnapped? ) National MPs who earn – you kidnapped, yes, you took pensions by deciding to replace the deficit in the budget by seizing pensions and reducing salaries, not by restructuring decisions, enterprises in restructuring and public sector reform decisions, legitimately, but cannot be lied about where pensioners of these underprivileged, extremely small 25,000, since the 2008 increase. If you decided to kidnap, you could have taken everything, not talked about that, we'll only take this behind 25,000, but we're very good, so we leave the pensioners with 25,000. If it hadn't been for the PUPS-SPS-DS-SDP and G17 coalition, I must say, these pensioners would have something above 14,000 today and it's a good thing we decided so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42029	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42030	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I'm advertising Article 107 because there's a real insult to Parliament's dignity here, especially when it's said that someone's been taking someone's pension. You had to react, because no one here took anything from anyone, but tried to reconcile public finances. You know, that's hypocrisy, and that's where I'm asking you to react, because it's so insulting to Parliament's dignity. That's your hypocrisy, at one point when you're calling for a fiscal council, and now it doesn't suit you, which is otherwise asking us to further cut pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42031	You've entered the line when you refer to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42032	Because there is constant insult to Parliament's dignity here, so I would ask the person concerned, since he is hypocritically acting...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42033	Ambassador, you can't do that. I'm sorry. You remind me to respect the Rules of Procedure and then give me a lesson by breaking the Rules of Procedure. I can't be a censor, you know, and I can choose who's going to say what, not to anyone, not to any MP, kidnapping, hypocrisy, this, that. It's not the president's job to jump on words. Political parties and parliamentary groups should respond to each other, and the president should lead, unless there were other words, curses, insults, etc. I thank you for your understanding. We will vote, but indeed, a difficult position if you choose the words of the MPs. The word has been made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42034	I'd like to have a controversy about the amendment today. Dear Minister Joksimovic, I do not know why you insisted on considering the past. I'm not ashamed of my past. I've been a member of the Democratic Party since I've been involved in politics. I've never been to any other party. I don't know what the situation is with you or I know, but it doesn't matter. If we're talking about the past, let me just compare something to you, 'cause it looks like you're really not competent. The level of foreign reserves you left in 2000 is lower than the debt of "Srbigas" in last year. Rate of foreign reserves, i.e. loss of “Srbigas”. Belgrade's airport worked better, it's not controversial, and then someone made the decision in a magical way to forgive two billion dinars "Air Serbia" to make "Air Serbia" work better. If we took those two billion into the budget, a whole other blood count would be in the budget today. The devastion of public enterprises, respected Minister Joksimovic, was done in the 1990s. The companies are broken down, the businesses are broken, the poor people are robbed, the wars have destroyed everything, the wages have been at the level of 40 marks, in the morning, in the afternoon, you know that inflation was up to 20 if you get there. That's when they destroyed, they destroyed, so I don't say it's you, so it's nothing personal, public enterprises. Then it was sold "Telecom" and then the government bought back that "Telecom" and now you want to sell it again, and you assure us that it's our fault that it's being sold. You owe me one answer, where you tried in a picturesque way to explain the public debt. First, public debt in 2012 was not 17 billion. You and I here in parliament listened to Minister Dinkic, who, following the formation of the government in which the SNS was participated, tasked Serbia in the second part of 2012 with two billion. The debt was 15.7 in July, 15.7. There's a colleague from the Treasury, so ask him. How big is it today? Tell us, please, what is it? If you don't want to say it, I'll say it - 24.5 billion. From 15.7 to 24.5 billion, nine, ten, what? And two more assignments are planned. You know I have great respect for you. I'm sorry they left you to talk today about things that just don't stand, as you say. They don't stand, as you say. I want to cross all the data when everything is devastated, when what was built, what was the salary of 2000 when you left, and how much you inherited, what was the public debt and how much you inherited, what was the tax in 2012 and what is today, what is the tax on profit, tax on VAT. It means all of it, if you want to enter the dialogue. I didn't give the amendment to tell me about the past, because your past and my past aren't important right now. It's about the future. In order for the pensioners to be returned to the pensions that have been de facto kidnapped, we think it's not even constitutional, so we need to see how to enable the economy to work. I didn't say I should take 100%. On the contrary, I said that last year public enterprises were robbed 100%, so I'm explaining, so that's why they can't make a profit, because they have to reinvest. They're such firms that they have to reinvest in order to make a profit. No one withdraws all the profits from the private company, because his company will collapse next year. There, in short. If you have clarifications, I'm very interested in how much debt it is right now. Don't tell me in 2012. How long is it today, how definitely does Serbia owe, because you told me twice about percentages? It's very unclear to the citizens what 60% of this means, 70% of what it means. What's the debt in real numbers? Don't, like in the case of employment, have fewer employees, and each third, according to you, is employed by statistics, so man can't meet anyone who's hired in the last four years, not every third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42035	Thank you. A breach of the Rules of Procedure, then a minister. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42036	Article 107(1) Again, Madam President, some MPs here give themselves the right to talk about the minister's expertise. I remind you that Mrs Joksimovic graduated in the school year 2001/02, a year after Mr Sutanovac graduated, although Mr Sutanovac is more than 10 years older than Mrs Joksimovic. Here's just so you know who's professional and who's not in what area. I would just ask you not to go into that topic, because those who move it don't pay to talk about it any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42037	The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42038	There's really no need to defend me. I don't feel affected when Mr. Sutanovac tells me something like that, I don't feel affected at all. First of all, as far as taking pensions and this argument we've heard here, it's pure demagogy. The only kidnapping that took place was from 2004 to 2012, and it ran through loans and non-intentional spending. It exploded between 2008 and 2012. That's when the public debt exploded. You said it wasn't 17.7. It was 15.7. Today is 24.7 billion euros. Now we're going to explain it. Total internal public debt is 8.8 billion euros and public debt by external debt is 13 billion euros. These are obligations towards international financial institutions, according to the London and Paris Club, to creditor states, etc. On the other hand, today, banks, commercial banks, give credit to the population at 7%. I ask you a question - what were the interest rates on the loans you were taking back then, plus state guarantees, since it was mostly taken as guarantees for state-owned enterprises, so what was also entered into public debt and what was the obligation to pay the state? When everyone said it was to be entered in 2005, in 2007, don't forget, there was really money in this country, it really was, money came in, when everyone stabilized their public finances, we entered into completely unfounded, in economic terms, borrowing. Why? Please don't throw it at me. So, since 2008, 2010, and especially in 2011, the pre-election year, that debt exploded. Why? You answer that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42039	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42040	We are talking about an amendment that treats the profits of public enterprises and the participation of public enterprises in the payment and raising of budget levels. We have also warned in the principle debate on the budget that the budget income level has been halved for this year compared to the last year for the profit of public enterprises. This speaks of the overall efficiency of the public sector in Serbia. It's great for the Serbian Post Office to pay off profits. It is great that Telecom Serbia is paying its profits, but the profit is a drop in the sea, as shown by these figures, compared to the losses both the EPS and Serbiaagas made last year. The EPS achieved a loss of 100m euros in 2014 by successfully managing the system. You're responsible for running that system. Serbia's 400m euros. What will happen after the privatisation of Telecom and hundreds of millions of euros pouring into the Republic of Serbia's budget on an annual basis? So the question is really open, is it by exhausting public systems and reducing their liquidity by taking 50% out of profits, 75% of the profit we introduce the largest number of systems in the bad business zone, because it's crucial to solve problems first of all in these largest systems. I repeat, EPS 400m euros in losses in 2014, "Srbiagas" 100m euros, vice versa, "Srbiagas" 400m euros, EPS 100m euros, and I remind you that the National Bank of Serbia has not been paying any profits in the Republic of Serbia's budget since 2013. In 2013, it was three billion, last zero, this year in the plan zero.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42041	Thank you. Wait a minute. Yes, you can't because the ministers were already responding for two minutes. So if someone gets a rough start, let's say so, then the replica, but none of the replica now. Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babic, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42042	I don't understand why such a problem arises around public enterprises. I absolutely don't get it, because that provision in the Law on Public Enterprises didn't set up this government. You set it up while you were in power. You've given the legal opportunity to invest funds in the budget from the profits of public enterprises. What's the matter now? It may be that public enterprises, while you were running them, recorded losses. Now they've got profits. What's the matter? I don't understand at all. So, public enterprises do public business. So the state has passed on its public powers to them and is expecting something in return. And it was quite correct in the law to transfer some of the profits of public enterprises to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. But it seems to me that there's a problem with you, you weren't worried about public enterprises while they were at your place, you were stealing them. Cerupali. They had no profit at all. They only had debts. Now they've got profits, so you're like asking why it's going to the budget. It goes into the budget because for these same public enterprises, while you ran them, guarantees are given that come back from this same budget. Well, you can keep your head down for as long as you want. Well, look at JAT. Only this year 200m euros. What you're talking about more.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42043	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42044	I'll be very brief on this amendment. I would remind and ask the amendment promoter to tell us how many are a year, or how many annually did "Srbigas" make debts for the gas delivered? How much in millions of euros, how much did he make? This is the first and only government in the modern history of parliamentaryism in Serbia that has made no single dinar, no single euro, no single dollar debt for the gas delivered in a year and a half since April 2014. Everything that's been supplied to the gas ino partner has been paid, and what debts you've left us. Plus, for this time in the last year, Gazprom has been paid $210m of old debts. I don't think you should talk, dear colleagues. You shouldn't talk about running public enterprises. You shouldn't even talk about running "Serbiagas", because you have to say how much debt you've made and why do we have to pay back now these debts that have accumulated during the previous period and during the former regime?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42045	By amendment, Mr. Sutanovac No, no. [[Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Do I have the right to reply?]] (Dear Sutanovac, from the city: asked the promoter, I am the promoter. Well, the promoter asked, but he didn't name you. Yes, you can. You still have time for the amendment. Here you go. You have an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42046	So it's true he doesn't owe it to gas. How? Well, you owe nine billion in three and a half years. Nine billion euros. Well, the minister just said you weren't listening. So the debt has been increased by nine billion, so something's been paid. Do you know what nine billion is? Mr. Arsic, you're talking about profit. That's what I'm talking about. Last year, 15 billion and 300 million, and why is it now eight billion? For what? Why isn't it 25 now? So you plan on being twice as bad as now. I'm not talking about the fact that it's going to be twice as bad on the basis of the tax on the profits of private enterprises. That's what we're talking about. In 1990, I remember you perfectly, you were a prominent official of the Serbian Radical Party, a prominent official. I remember you from 2000, we were in Parliament together. I won't stand on your burden until then. I just want to know why it's going to be from 15 to 300 to eight, and what are the companies mentioned by the PUPS lady who doesn't pay the profits? Who's got a chance not to pay the profits? And why? So there are some directors who are obviously more popular with the government, and some aren't, so those who don't pay, those who are they don't. That's what a coworker from PUPS said. Right? You stand before what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42047	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42048	Well, Mr. Sutanovac apparently sat on his ears as the prime minister spoke. This budget was planned most conservatively. So the revenues from this budget are planned at the very least. The expenditure on this budget is also planned in the worst option, so to the worst extent possible. And we expect far better inflows and by payments from the profits of legal entities, i.e. public enterprises, and far less costs than they are planned for in this budget. As an example, it is the 2015 budget. Of the planned 190 billion government debt, we have 120 billion government debt. The consolidated debt was supposed to be 240 left at 120 billion. To make reservations to pay off the loans that come in 2016 that are now in this budget. To make reservations to pay the loans you raised in 2017. And when you talk about the International Monetary Fund, you often mention it, not now. We don't need that billion euros. We absolutely don't need it as a state, but we need their consent to our financial plans so that someone can't ask stupid questions, so we can trust investors and financial institutions that Serbia is a legally secure country, an economically secure country and that they can invest in it. That's why we didn't rush the IMF like you did in February and March of 2012. And the worst year, the break-up that brought us into this situation, is in 2008. You want to talk about foreign exchange reserves that were sold out then?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42049	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Sutanovac, so you've spent time and groups of MPs and yours. Yes, it is. Please, I have information, and now you check after I'm about to take a break. Please, I'm setting a break to 17 hours and 30 minutes. So, by 5:00 and 30 minutes break.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42050	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. National MP Miroslav Marinkovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42051	I'm sorry, I didn't put the card in. We, i.e. I have submitted to Article 15(1) of the amendment, which, instead of words - from the very least, I replace with words - has been given a decision by the Management Board which cannot be less than 50%." If we read this whole bill, we'll see that it has a minimum of 50%, which can't be less than 50%. However, as the state manages, i.e. the Government, appoints members of the Executive Board and the Management Boards are administrative bodies in each public enterprise, it is not disputed that public undertakings as a public good should and give part of their profits in the interests of the State. But what is the purpose of the board of directors if he does not decide? It's the board of directors who's got business insights. It practically helps the competent ministry, the government, in this assessment of what is real profit and how much can be paid, or transferred to the government's account. So, in my view, it's not clear to me why it wasn't accepted, because the solution that exists is no less than 50%, and I said from the least profit of 50%, but by the board's decision. I think it's a good way of handling that the state has good contact with public enterprises, which is often not an example, because we have cases that in public enterprises whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, there's not even a budget account, they're not even connected to the government of the Republic of Serbia in terms of giving, they're already making their own income, and then they're being sent to reduce the number of people by a number there, which means that every man they fire is practically a smaller payment in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I think this is too much of an explanation and I'm asking the minister to consider and accept such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42052	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42053	Thank you, Chairman. I'm glad the finance minister is with us right now, because I really want an explanation about this member and the amendment. In fact, this part of the Budget Law is almost identical to last year's budget. Article 15 of this year's draft budget law is almost the same as in the 16-year budget law. The only difference is that at the end of Article 1 there is now no part of the sentence – according to the dynamics set by the ministry responsible for financial affairs. There is no such thing in this draft budget law for 2016. Now what this is about and why I'm making this a point, and I want to show that this is an eclectic example that there are double arches and that no opposition amendment has been accepted, just because it comes from the opposition. A year ago, we proposed an amendment to the then Article 16 to delete this part -- according to the dynamics set by the Ministry of Finance Affairs, we proposed, the Ministry rejected it and wrote that the solution given in the bill was more comprehensive than the solution given in the amendment. Then this year, when we see that it's gone, we say let's go back, maybe someone at the Ministry has recalculated, and we go back to what it was like last year, and we write to add this sentence, and we say that this is a more comprehensive solution. So, just what the Ministry answered us last year. Of course, the Ministry, or the Government, repels our amendment and says – the amendment is not accepted because the reasons for not seeing the reasons for the adoption of the proposed amendment, and thus the transparency of spending. So, how is it that last year something is more comprehensive, and this year, when we say return it, it says it doesn't contribute to the transparency of spending? I only see bad intentions towards the amendment promoter last year and this year. I don't think that's really right. It's not right for us to write, neither do I, 69 amendments to the Budget Law, not accept any of them, but to play like this last year that our solution is not good because the law solution is more consistent, and then that amendment is practically accepted this year, and then we play a little bit, so when we extend it, it doesn't contribute to the transparency of budget spending. Why didn't you accept that last year, because our idea was to make it more transparent to spend the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42054	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42055	I'm glad that the amendment promoter reminded us of last year and everything we heard in this room last year, so I'll remind you-- what will happen to us then, what kind of higher power will prevent us from budgeting for 2015, as we adopt it today? When will you come with the budget rebalance for 2015? Tell us today. Those are Mr. Djurisic's words. There was no budget rebalance. That's what he announced last year. The next line -- at what rate did you make this bill, is it a 120-dollar course or a 122-dollar course? The average rate in 2015, concluded with November of the month, was 120.6 dinars. That catastrophic announcement didn't come true either. The next -- we didn't speak here in the debate to increase the deficit, but we told you to increase revenues, take the tax administration. You here for next year didn't predict any increase in tax revenues. So, where's the fight against the gray economy? What are you going to do next year to increase budget revenues? Where are you going, how are you going to improve the work of the tax administration and how are you going to see it in the budget? And these are the words of the amendment promoter only a year ago for the 2015 budget. However, what does the budget say, what do the funds say and what does the government of the Republic of Serbia say? Budget revenues on the side of tax revenues in 2015 will be higher by 22 billion dinars, and at the general level, including contributions from local self-government, higher than over 50 billion dinars compared to budgeted. Although the fall is originally planned, the growth of tax revenues will be achieved in 2015 compared to the previous one by about 2%. I can tell you about the reasons. I'm glad Minister Vujovic will accept the staff and start explaining further. That's why this amendment was last year, but it won't be accepted this year either.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42056	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica of Mr Babic's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42057	Thank you, Chairman. I am pleased that my colleague Babic reads what I said during the debate last year and I call on him to do the same thing next year when the budget is debated, so let's see what happened or didn't happen. So, I was talking last year about how the state is going to raise the efficiency of VAT collection. Here, the state, I think, from 69.5, from 70 to 71 raised the efficiency of VAT collection. She couldn't even get close to about 74%, as it was in 2011. It's still a long way from that. I asked the tax administration then, and I asked the same question two days ago, Minister. The minister said he had plans, must be working on reforming the tax administration. He agreed that nothing was done this year, practically. Large measures are yet to be taken. Fiscalization has been announced and various other things. So nothing's been done this year. The collection of tax revenues, when you read the budget's reasoning, speaks of the fact that it was conservatively planned and that more was achieved, mostly because of this, and not because of some improvement in performance. I wanted in two days to discuss the budget to hear what performances we're going to do, what we're going to do is have a more efficient state, more efficient tax charge, VAT and other taxes. But there's no answer. We're shooting numbers here. I was saying, it just seems like my colleague Babic didn't realize that one amendment last year wasn't accepted, but it was put in a proposal for a solution to this year's budget, and when we want to return the solution the government insisted on last year, the government is now refuting it, just because we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42058	Time. Thank you. Mr. Minister, replicas have an advantage. The right to reply, for mentioning also the names and last names, has a MP, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42059	I wasn't, Mr. Chairman, happy when I read the stenograms from the debate at the 2015 draft budget session. I wasn't happy because I only read dark announcements, just announcements of everything that didn't happen in 2015. I was happy to read the Ministry of Finance's reports, when I read the tax administration's reports, which say that in 2015, according to the IRS, the number of VAT returns increased by 11% and reported traffic by 7.3%. That's why I was happy. This means that we are going to a much more efficient and quality state that can't be made in a few months or a year, but with this data, I really have the will to read some statements of MPs next year and to laugh about it because it won't happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42060	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42061	Thank you very much. Let me quote a short Irish joke. There's a man in the bar, there's a fight going on, and he's asking, is that a private fight, can I join if it's not a private fight? I don't want to join, I'd like to drop the ball. My proposal is to accept this amendment. They told me it was understood, and I said, "But there is no need to add it back." Therefore, Mr Djurisic, my proposal is to accept this amendment and add – according to the dynamics set by the Ministry of Finance Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42062	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I find that a representative of the government, the finance minister, accepted the amendment to Article 15, which was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and academicist Ninoslav Stojadinovic. We move on to Article 16 to which the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: What about my amendment? We don't have your amendment, Mr. Markovic. He must have passed by earlier. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: When? ) Mr Markovic, after the break, we only had two amendments to Article 15, Mr Đurisic and Mr Marinkovic, also from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic, so we did not have your amendment. He's been through it for sure before the break. I didn't chair, so I can't be sure that... I don't have it here, Mr. Markovic. [[Jovan Markovic, from the post: I was before the break, did not pass.]] We'll check it out one more time. If by any chance it doesn't exist in my material, we'll make it right. We'll ask the service, did Mr. Markovic's amendment pass? He's gone. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I was present, no one read.) ) Do I trust you now, Mr. Markovic, or the service that I believe is perfectly following the course of the session? I'm absolutely sure if they confirm he's gone, he has. But don't let it stay on this, we'll check it out one more time. Thank you. The 16th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42063	Article 16 defines that there will be no accounting and payment of Christmas, annual and other types of prizes and bonuses provided for in special individual and collective contracts for direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget, other than jubilee rewards for employees who acquired this right in 2016. So it's impossible to put into law the formulation – who acquired it in 2016. It's 2015. So, the formulation -- that's going to get it right in 2016 -- that makes sense, but you can't say it in advance now. There's no futur-perfect, it's either he's acquired or he's going to gain. If he acquired it, then he acquired it in 2015, and if he will acquire it, then he will gain it in 2016, and he cannot acquire it in 2016 now. But that's just part of it. The problem with this Article 16 is that there is also a ban on the same awards at the level of local self-government. On what basis can the law relating to Serbia's budget, which is implemented by the Serbian government, apply to the budgets of local self-government? It can be a recommendation, it can be a common position, but the state-level law regulates what's entirely within the jurisdiction of local self-government, it's absolutely impossible, unconstitutional, regardless of what might be good intentions. A third thing, even worse, which does not define anything related to public enterprises, and public enterprises are the largest source of these yields under grain, gray, around, left, right, bonuses. All public enterprises have shared bonuses. Biggest loser parts bonuses. Serbia's biggest loser has a director and management board with the highest salary in Serbia. Therefore, it cannot be a message that this budget is such that it is subject to savings and that it should introduce some order.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42064	Time. Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. As I said, Mr. Markovic, I was absolutely sure the service was doing it very carefully. So before Mr. Sutanovac was your amendment, you weren't in the O.R. Thank you. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42065	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister and Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Mr. Vukic, told us here when this budget marathon began, "Budget is the most important law we talk about in the course of one year. The budget is a book through which all our political, economic, social and all other spheres are broken." Gentlemen, I think the Prime Minister is now a place in the National Assembly to explain to us, gentlemen, how our companies like Telecom are worth less today than they were worth, for example. 2011 A year?- I'm sorry. Because if the bill does not deceive us, for 58% of the ownership in Telecom plus 20%, 930 million were offered, respected gentlemen, and in 2011, here is Mr Sertic, there is Mr Vujovic, there is Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, 51%, Mr Bečić, 1.1 billion was offered. What does that mean, gentlemen? That the companies that were announced here would be sold for a much higher price, that their value, that their price for these few years the progressive authorities would fall, gentlemen. Isn't it time and opportunity for the Prime Minister, when we talk about it, that instead of holding press conferences in the government, he comes to the Assembly to talk here?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42066	I hope to welcome Mr. Pavicevic's session to discuss the amendments he has submitted. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42067	To use your phrase, that means you didn't stick to your amendment to article 16, and that means you're saying something nobody said. Today I attended a meeting of the commission that evaluated Telecom's offers, at the government's meeting and at a press conference, and no one mentioned any figures. How do you know those numbers, I don't know, but nobody said that. Therefore, all your other derived thoughts are completely unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42068	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Sertice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42069	Professor Pavicevic, MP, comes out again. But since he mentioned the subject, I must certainly contact you with the MPs and give you just a few information about what happened to Telecom in the previous years, and what about Telecom today. You should know that in the last two years Telecom has dramatically increased its performance within the system itself in the number of users, on mobile phone and on the Internet, especially on IPTV, or on internet television, which is becoming increasingly popular today. A good company sells when you can get the highest value. In order for our listeners and you to know, those who are not economic professions, what does that mean, an estimate of the company or the possibility of getting a good offer is always measured on the net business result, so-called. Ebitda. When Telecom was sold in 2011, when the company from Austria came and offered, the offer was 4.8 times so-called. EBITDA at that moment. When the shares of OTE were purchased, it was 5.3. We got an offer six times EBITDA today. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: EBITDA is now what? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42070	Mr. Sutanovac, I'm asking you not to throw it away. Let the minister finish the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42071	It speaks more of business results, the reputation of Serbia. Should I point out that today, or all these two or three months ago, we had negotiations and official participation in an open, completely clear and transparent process of six serious large companies from all over the world, from completely different parts of the world? You remember what stories were here, both in parliament and in the public, as the company was already sold in advance, how someone took the money, how the privatisation process should be implemented and who will be the buyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42072	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42073	I'd like to hear those people say what they're going to say today. We didn't make this decision because of any populism, we made a decision in the best economic interest. That goal hasn't changed. The decision to privatise Telecom was exclusively conditioned by economic performances and the future of five, ten, twenty years. That's what we stay to work on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42074	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, magistrate of Dr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42075	The first position of Article 16, as last year alone, was the second member, talking about prohibiting the payment of any Christmas or annual or other kind of prizes, bonuses provided for by a special individual contract, except jubilee rewards for employees. We believe that this should be deleted and the possibility of paying off these rewards for a year after the fiscal consolidation programme is under way, so that, for a year already, people receive reduced salaries for 10% in the public sector, to allow that, if in the budgets of users, direct and indirect ones, they have the means to enable these organisations to pay their New Year's, Christmas and other types of rewards, if they are foreseen by collective and individual contract. We think that if the situation is so good, so good that, here, and the economic reasons went too far not to sell Telecom, then there's room where the savings were made to enable the payment of these supplements. I can't remember exactly who said what, these words that Minister Sertic mentioned that someone spoke about this privatisation of Telecom, certainly nobody from our political party said, but I remember that four years ago the prime minister filed criminal charges against the then prime minister, all those responsible for the privatisation of Telecom in 2011 and urged citizens to protest on the streets, when the government also transparently, publicly, led the privatisation process of Telecom and did not bring him, as you do today, to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42076	I didn't mean to interrupt, but I'm just asking you to talk about the amendments. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: As Minister, so did I. But, finally, let's start talking about the amendment, I beg you, from this moment on. Minister Zeljko Sertic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42077	I'll be very brief in response. I completely agree that the processes were as transparent as today, and thank you for that sentence. I think it's very important, because of our public. But the other thing is one big difference between 2011 and 2015, those governments and today's. During that period, all the development in the country was based on consumption. At that time, the assumed price of buying full money that was due to arrive in the state register was intended to increase pensions. Since it wasn't done, then it got into lending, those expensive loans we're talking about today. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: We don't know what you wanted with it. ) Well, you also have confirmation of the Fiscal Council, which you so often call upon, you also have confirmation in the budget standing before you, that no single euro or dinar from the sale of Telecom has been put as an item of revenue in the 2016 budget. That means we had an idea with him to return some of the expensive loans that you owed and another part to go directly into the development of the investment that we agreed on, in the end line, and with the IMF.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42078	Thank you. On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Do you want a word? Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42079	As the MPs have already said, Article 16 refers to the payment of bonuses, awards and Christmas, annual and other types of awards, and it is said that this does not apply to those who acquired the right to a jubilee prize in 2016. I suggest that this part, "in the course of 2016", is deleted, but I don't know if you know that there are educational workers whose local self-government did not pay for jubilee awards during this year, even some who won the Jubilee Prize in 2014 and that local self-government did not pay for it. If you were a little more interested in talking to the teachers' unions, when you assigned them, you say help, and they say charity, of six or seven thousand dinars, you'd know that they're facing that problem at the level of their local self-government. So I suggest that those educators who have acquired law since 2015 or 2014 on jubilee offense, and the local self-governments haven't paid them that, too, get the opportunity to pay them jubilee awards in 2016. I don't think it disturbs your basic intensity that others don't get some kind of reward in their businesses, so I don't think that local self-government is the biggest problem, but on the contrary, we've had one case that's quite a stir for the public who wasn't from this domain, and I think that if you adopt such an amendment, you'll be able to give people who have some rights to keep that right from being denied.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42080	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42081	So, two comments only. Comments on the previous amendment proposal in Articles 16 and current. First of all, Miss Jerkov can't be deleted from Article 16, since she's... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I want those who have earned the right to be paid. ) The words “wipe, ” beware of this, but for the jubilee prizes, at the end of the first paragraph, if I read well, first position, read the last sentence – except for the jubilee rewards for the employees who acquired this right in 2016. This budget refers to 2016, I asked my colleagues, they say we must, wherever it is necessary, because we are calling for official messengers from the previous periods, then here we are extending this right to the year on which the budget relates. I can accept grammatical interventions, and also here, if it's an essential intervention, it doesn't need to be eliminated, since this budget only applies to 2016. Even, notice, there is one shade here, according to our system someone can acquire the right in December of this year, and then it's covered by the budget for the previous year and if the payment is made in the following year. We're late for all things, including jubilee awards. Therefore, if you delete this “if they won in 2016, ” what does that mean? Who ever acquired that right? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place which was not paid. ( b) To whom has it not been paid? But this budget applies only to 2016, therefore, our colleagues considered it because this is to the man who is referring to the implementation of the budget and what we are planning in the budget, must limit the execution to the part that falls under that budget. To remind you this budget has December's salary from 2015 and 11 earnings from 2016, so the system is arranged. So that one month always slips, and that's why it takes this explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42082	Thank you. They'll get you right on the line, and I appreciate you trying not to throw it away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42083	I don't know what this means the last thing you said. So, Mr. Vujovicu, if we leave this behind, then my question is, what will happen to educational workers who won the Jubilee Awards in 2015, not in December, they already complained in November that local self-governments did not pay them jubilee awards. What will happen to educational workers who won Jubilee Awards during 2015, and have not been paid by local self-government?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42084	Thank you. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42085	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, in Article 16(3), I suggested that it be deleted for the simple reason Mr Vujovic that the Government of the Republic of Serbia was left discretionaryly entitled to certain local self-governments that are not at the political will of the ruling majority of the redundancies belonging to her under the Budget Law. For this reason, without any reason, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the right to, for example, do so if it wants to. You'll say, never for no reason, but it doesn't say according to any possible reasons. That's how you punish Serbian citizens with several different levels. From the level of the Republic when it comes to pensions, educators, health workers, police officers, soldiers, gatherings, and on the other hand, there is an open possibility that you can punish them when it comes to local self-government to deny where they voted inadequately and local self-government for the entire transfer. So that was the same case when it came to the '90s even though I highly appreciate you and I don't think you're one of those ministers that you want to return to the '90s in 2016. On the other hand, when they look at the state of society, these are kind of the '90s in white gloves, and you leave the possibility of something like that. For this reason, I have suggested that this amendment be deleted, so that all those citizens who have been punished from the level of the central government of the Republic of Serbia are not also punished from the local level. It is therefore important that at least we have certain certainty that it can never happen that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has discreetly decided that some local self-government, some president of a municipality or city from another party should deny the transfer under the Budget Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42086	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42087	Just to clarify this, I have before me the Budget Act for 2015, the same member only last year was Article 17. The last sentence of the first line is – except for the jubilee rewards for employees who acquired it in 2015. So we have continuity, last year was defined for 2015, this year for 2016. You're talking about something else, whether it's being implemented or not, but in this section that requires budget implementation rules, it's completely consistent, and that's why I don't think that this member should be changed. If there's a problem somewhere else in that place that we can solve, please, not in this place.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42088	Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42089	This member deals with fees for the work of the president and members of the commission and other permanent and temporary working bodies in the public sector, cannot be increased in 2016, the member said. Why is that even paid? These commissions, there are people who bring some knowledge, experience, why it would be paid. There is no reason to pay for it, and this member would make sense, whether it is a place in the budget, but in another law to say work in commissions and other permanent and temporary bodies is not paid in Serbia. Let me remind you, it wasn't usually paid. I've been on some boards of directors, boards from 2000 to 2004, dinar white, not in any, not in the Development Fund, not in the SDPR. So, especially in some committees whose competencies are, we'll agree less than the competences of the Development Fund. Therefore, honor should be to anyone in Serbia who can participate in the work of commissions and other working bodies who are doing something for the benefit of the Serbian state and its citizens, and not to put here some semiforme that it will not increase. Let's see, again, nothing personal, but the function of the director of Serbiaagas, he participates in several more working bodies, commissions, boards of directors, supervisory boards and the entire Serbian public knows how much money it is and you will tell me – well, next year it doesn't increase, which is a few tens of thousands or maybe a hundred thousand euros on an annual basis. Please prepare your budget a little more seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42090	The word is proposed by the amendment by Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Bečiću, the Honorable Minister, was joined by Mrs Udovici, welcome Mrs Udovici and the Honorable Minister Sertic and Minister Vujovic. In the position of Article 17, which we propose to delete, not only attitude 1, but attitude 2. Mrs Udovici, Minister Sertić, writes – compensation for the work of the president and members of the commissions and other permanent and temporary working bodies in the public sector cannot be increased in 2016. The argument offered by MP Zoran Zivkovic, and I have already offered two arguments, Mr Sertic. Watch out, 17 billion dinars, the total expenditure the government has on the basis of services, based on the contract, is set out in this budget. Is that a big number, Mr. Sertice? Plus over 70 billion dinars, the government itself can, based on its own discretionary decision to deploy beyond the role of the National Assembly, past the role of the public, respected by the gentlemen of its conclusion. I ask, here is Mrs. Udovici, who now deals with public administration reform, the state administration, the public sector, in which this modern European democratic state, in this way, one government can deploy billions, counting and the content of Article 1st Article 17. A bill of law in the budget. I ask Minister Sertic, I ask Mrs Udovicki, I ask Minister Vujović, and I ask Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, is "Telecom" part of the public sector, respected gentlemen, and why the Prime Minister is not in the Assembly, that when we talk about the budget, but the press conferences are organised, the work of the Assembly is interrupted, respected gentlemen, and so is the issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42092	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42093	I don't know, Reverend, why are you so upset? First, you can compare the salary of the director of "Srbigas" with the salaries in other services within the Republic of Serbia, only within those legal norms that exist. The salary of Serbian Directors is limited at the same level by the Serbian government's decision, like all other directors. Being a member of other boards of directors, he's a member of the boards of directors of private companies, and we can't influence that. On the other hand, it was both at the time and when you were there. The third thing, I don't know, and I don't have the information, but I would very much like to see that item that Professor Pavicevic has now explained, how much it was at the time when you were in power and while you were in charge of this country. What's important to say is that this is the first government to introduce serious restrictive measures into public enterprises. We were the first government to introduce serious work on them in September of last year after ten years of public enterprises' work in this country, delivered a clear plan to make their plan for 2015. We measure their time every three months. Every three months they have to submit a clear and accurate report on their business. We found 55 billion minus public enterprises in 2013. A plan that has already been respected in the second quarter of this year, and for which we have a report, which you will receive in the Assembly here, in the spring and February of this month, is the plan to reduce the debt of public enterprises. If someone can say it's a waste, if someone can say it's not the government's correct and fair work, then we have a serious problem assessing our values. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42094	You do not have the right to reply, Mr Pavicevic, especially because you have misused the Rules of Procedure and have not spoken of your amendment. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42095	The first remark for the previous two applicants, Article 17, states that the fees cannot be increased and that is the member that applies, this is the entire bloc relating to the implementation of the budget, in other places the levels of income, compensation and everything else are determined. The second position of the members you propose to delete is said to be – the competent authorities, the public funds users, are tasked with reviewing the need for a level of compensation set out in Article 1 to reduce expenditure on this basis. You haven't even read the commentary article and suggest that it be deleted. How can we do that, please? The second thing, since you mention the contract number, I've put a number right here somewhere, but I'll tell you about 16.7 billion Conto 423. What you're saying as a scandal that appears in 400 places, it just shows that everyone has and these are small contracts that there's no need to have, it's temporary and occasional jobs, it's small contracts, if you need something you don't have in systemization, it's always and we can show you the data, it's 1.6% of the state's income, distributed to 400 places. So, I don't know what you're looking for here, witches or peanuts catch on the floor, but this doesn't make any sense, do you understand? It's small contracts, and otherwise it would be an alternative to hiring people who wouldn't have more than five, six working days a year. Thank you very much. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica, addressed directly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42096	You have no right, he didn't mention your name and name, there are no conditions for replication, but the replica has a minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki, because her name is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42097	It is important to make it quite clear first that any fee for working on the commission or the boards of directors is regulated by some law and some regulation. There is no doubt that to the most extent that these fees are not unreasonable and that they are most often necessary. It is also true that there is abuse and that there is opportunity and space for greater rationality. The biggest mistake would be to remove such a thing now as an axe, by some decision. First, it wouldn't be easy to implement it, because it's regulated in a whole series of laws. Secondly, it would be wrong, because we have an administration that has been under restrictive policy for several years now, and we have found that we have a very unfavourable structure of employees and we need to enable greater flexibility and skills to work and to produce the results and productivity that Serbia needs. Without a doubt, it is also necessary to constantly and regularly, according to how regulations and sectors are being edited, questioned and the need for these compensations, and there is whenever possible and necessary for them to be arranged differently, but much more would be the cost of doing it quickly and in some populist way, rather than doing it systematically the way we plan to do it and how we already do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42098	Thank you. Mr. Babic, are you staying on the application? The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42099	For the sake of the truth and for the sake of the public, Article 17(1) reads – fees for the work of the president, members of commissions and other permanent and temporary working bodies in the public sector cannot be increased in 2016. By erasing this member, this position, no fees will be deleted for the commission's membership and anything. He won't. The explanation of the proposed amendment is pure populism, public dizziness. Only a different effect would be achieved if in one atmosphere of lights turned off, fees for commission work could be raised in such a way as to be related to cousin, party or any other. In order to give you what this means, two members of the State Council of Prosecutors and two members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, from the ranks of the professors from the Faculty of Law and from the ranks of lawyers, their compensation is determined by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That compensation was at the height of the parliamentary supplement, or somewhat less than 30,000 dinars. By decision of the Administrative Board of 2009 in a magical way because there was no such member of the 17th and such law, in a voluntary way the majority then increased the fee for membership in the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors from the parliamentary supplement, do you know how much, do you know how much Mr Vujovic? On six average salaries in Serbia. Six average salaries in Serbia and until the change in 2012, until the Administrative Committee of course in its second meeting and, of course, under the leadership of the SNS returned that decision. But until we got back, spent, given by a party line, a relative, a college of more than 10 million dinars. Now, that's how the former government and the former regime think and how they run our country. Do you know what happened? A week after the decision to return the compensation to the height and level of the parliamentary supplement, all four resigned. And what was the motive for working at the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors? Maybe a better one? Maybe a promotion? No, a clear interest in membership, not for work, for membership, for obligations they had once or twice a month, perhaps not that much, they got and received six average earnings in Serbia. So what are these brains, which are people who can make six average earnings in Serbia to be just members of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary and I respect those bodies as I respect the independence of the judiciary? But I cannot respect the policy decision, the former regime's decision to make amends that amount to six average earnings in Serbia. Scandal. And for that reason, this amendment to the SNS, I don't know what you're going to say to Minister Vujovic, but for the SNS this amendment and that eclipse they want us back to is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42100	Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42101	Dear President-in-Office, respected ministers, Mr Zoran Babic gave me good cream to comment on the amendment tabled by his colleague Zivkovic, and I least expected the amendment to be a completely populist and factual one call to egalitarianism. Mr Babic explained well and I believe that I need in politics when it comes to salaries and fees in the state administration we need to manage a system that will involve higher wages, for a greater contribution to higher work, longer work and a greater contribution to the organisation of the company or whatever form it is that institution and organisation that belongs to the public sector. What is very important is that this system of compensation when it comes to commissions, when it comes to working bodies, is the key thing to verify and analyse the justification of membership and justification for the existence of work and functioning of these very working bodies. The State Audit Institute for Information for All People's MPs and Citizens of the Republic of Serbia has been on the move since New Year, with an analysis and verification of the justification of the work of such committees and working bodies, and then the Government of the Republic of Serbia and only the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government will be managed by empirical data to define which working bodies and which commissions are needed and thus will be paid. What is the position of the party to which I belong is that everyone's work is paid, especially that work that is overtime and which, of course, represents an upgrade to what is called "cor work", to what people are already doing within the systematization of their jobs. When it comes to state administration reform, so for the first time in five or six years, I don't know how to call them, try, virtual, like this, or like that, we're going to have the right to reform the state administration, and we're going to have one quality and good pay law and pay grade. We will not have more than 900 coefficients and payment classes in that system and various hidden fees and money spills from the Republic of Serbia's budget, so in any case this amendment is unacceptable. He calls for egalitarianism. We just want to introduce a quality system in this way, that what is really done and is a contribution to our state administration and its better, more efficient and more effective work, to pay for it because those people who do it deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42102	Members of the 17th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Karic and Mr Blagoja Bradić, and joint MPs Miroslav Marinković and Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42103	Dear President, members of the government, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have submitted to Article 17 of Position 1 the amendment, which reads to be deleted. I have a different explanation than my predecessors because I think this solution is more acceptable, although in response to the amendment, I am told that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the solution given in the bill is more comprehensive than the solution given in the amendment. The solution to this law is not given at all and cannot be more celery than what I say is deleted. What's this about? So, all these compensations for the presidents and members of the commission and other permanent and temporary working bodies in the public sector were made at the moment it was frozen from 2014, at which time pensions were reduced in 2014. So, practically further reasoning, that is, the development of Article 17, says that some laws should be activated, etc. So the complete inconsistency of this argument. I think it may be better, it may be more harmless to delete it because we already have a cut and no one has the right to increase it or in any part, any position of this member prejudges that someone will increase it. So there's no need to say that these bodies need to be in the public sector, they can't increase in 2016, and they were already regulated in 2014. I mean, I'm trying to help one solution get that reasonable line that shouldn't have too much text, too many explanations for something that's already explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42104	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42105	I think the explanation is completely logical and normal. It is cellularly here because our goal is not to increase this and the second goal is to ask all the competent authorities to review the decisions on this, then it is comprehensive that there is a Article 17 that prohibits the increase, as we banned the increase for 2015 last year, so this year we ban the increase for 2016 and we additionally re-indemnify all these organs to question whether it is celery to pay for participation in these committees, etc. And there's an explanation there elsewhere that if it requires extra work, material costs, effort, etc., then there's a basis for someone to compensate. So, I think, one, this is a matter of politics, and it's not whether it's accurate or not. Our goal was obviously to limit this and ask it to be abolished where it's justified to abolish and that's what we wrote. So what it says here, we stand behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42106	Thank you. Members of the 17th Amendment were submitted by the People's MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and the MPs Slobodan Homen and Branka Karavidic together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42107	You gave me your word?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42108	You have submitted an amendment to Article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42109	I think you just said that, I just didn't understand that you gave me your word, since there was some noise.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42110	I did. You saw the microphone on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42111	So I suggest you delete this point 2. Just so the citizens know what it's all about. So it is said that fees for the work of the president and the members of the commission cannot be increased and then there is a very strange position for any law. He says: “The competent authorities and the public funds are in charge of reviewing the need for existence and the amount of compensation provided for in Article 1, in order to reduce expenditure on this basis and in order to initiate amendments to the laws, other regulations, general and other acts, which are subject to payment of these fees. ” Please, is this the Budget Law or the minutes of some kind of meeting? I mean, this really looks like a provision from some record, where you sat down, so you made a deal, so now you're hiring someone to do something in the future, without any deadline, no talking about what kind of, what organs, what fees, what laws. It's just that it's really inconclusive that something like this is in the law. If anything is more serious than that, it is an explanation that the Serbian government has given in its opinion why my amendment refuses. It says - the amendment is rejected for a reason, and then it repeats this position 2 which really resembles the minutes of a meeting, rather than the provisions of the 2016 budget law. So, I'm asking you either to get it out of the law, or to sort of agree to do some correction to the amendment, but this is really a shame to be in the budget law like this, or to give some deadline, or to have some specific authorities in charge of it, or to say which laws, do something about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42112	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would once again ask Mr. Vujovic to carefully read the position of the 2nd member. My remarks are similar to those of my colleague Jerkov. I can only say that from this member man sees some hint of some government's intention, that is, to introduce a series of fees for membership in committees. So nothing accurate. So, from this attitude, we can simply, he's inconclusive, because everything is undefined, because something is being reconsidered, because something is going on, because something is going on, because something is going to change. Who's proposing changes? You say here in the article that changes to laws and regulations are necessary, but the law does not say who is proposing these amendments, no deadlines. Secondly, I wouldn't really use any rougher expressions, of course, you've repeated the whole other attitude, by finally adding another chaotic sentence that says in other words -- they're obliged to consider removing the basis for paying compensation for each individual case. So, what will the government do specifically? This looks like you've put a line on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42114	Thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and academicist Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42115	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this extra situation is like an amendment before two members. Last year, there was a member of the 18th Law, who was identical to the current Article 17. Only then there was a position 3. which spoke – payment of the fees of Article 1 and the criteria for determining their height will be governed by a special law. A year ago we suggested that this attitude be erased, to be a member as it is now, without a third attitude. You then rejected our amendment and you said for a reason because the solution given in the bill is more comprehensive than the solution given in the amendment. So now after a year, you've accepted our argument. So now it's not cellulent. Because when we proposed a solution as you suggested a year ago, you replied that the amendment was unacceptable for the reason that the position of the 2nd member prescribed that the competent authority and the users of the public funds be in charge and that the needs of the existence of the amount of compensation to be paid, and that, in order to reduce the expenditure on this basis, in each individual case, if they found necessary, to initiate amendments to the law in respect of other acts which are subject to the payment of these fees. You have just accepted our amendment this year, but I will not allow you to accept this amendment, because I will withdraw this amendment, because I think this solution is better. I'm just sorry you didn't accept it a year ago. I'm just asking you not to think of our amendments as opposition amendments, but just a little bit to dent. If you had accepted that, we would have adopted this amendment a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42116	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42117	This discussion is very meaningful and thank you all for your advice and your intentions in order to best define our budget. But the problem is, honourable MPs, that it was not a practice in previous years. The moment that we have just launched a serious cost control, a serious way of working and operating public enterprises, then we have come to the conclusion that all Members of Parliament are now thinking about it and I thank you again for that. I would especially like to point out, in this same Parliament, amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises have been adopted, where this assembly majority has voted to shut down supervisory and boards as two parallel systems, and all have been paid precisely from these funds. Previously on these same boards of directors or supervisors were not limited to the number of members, it could have been and there were seven, nine, and sometimes even significantly more board members and almost all of them were paid. Today we have at the republical level five members, at the local level of three members, and only one supervisory board. A huge number of these and supervisory boards, whether at a local or a republican level, are not paid today. Also, a large number of supervisory boards, republican agencies, state institutions are not paid. I am the chairman of the Serbian Development Fund and I do not receive a single dinar, as well as all other members of the Supervisory Board, not a single dinar for the work in that body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42118	The 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Dr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42119	Thank you. I don't have any better comments on this article than I did on the last one. In order to make it clearer to our viewers, if any, this member refers to the users of the Serbian budget, units of local self-government, which use business space and mobile things managed by other public funds users. So the whole member is inaccurate. Article 1 does not show which costs are specifically thought of, whether or not the costs of renting space, whether the costs of electricity consumption, water and other communals are taken into account. What does it mean for users of moving things, I quote, costs are found on that basis alone? It is simply not possible to determine from this article what the rights and obligations of the beneficiaries of the Republika Srpska budget are, and I would like the finance minister to explain it a little better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42120	Thank you. The word is proposed by the amendment by Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Becicu, the Honorable Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I think it is very good that we have forced both the Progressive majority and the Minister of Serbia to this budget marathon in these few days that the citizens of our Republic can hear certain parts of this Bill on Budgets and Contributions that have come with this bill that has been set up on 1,300 pages. We have submitted an amendment to Article 18. The draft budget law, and I'm glad that the chairman of today's session, at this point, is carefully listening to the explanation of our amendment. I'm sure they'll vote for this amendment. We have submitted an amendment to Article 18 and that member is deleted. Let's just point out to the citizens and the ministers and the ministers and the MPs what it says in this article, what we propose to delete. It says – direct and indirect users of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of local authorities, except mandatory social insurance organisations that use the business space and movables managed by other public funds users, only provide costs on this basis. We explained to ministers why this member should not stand either, as none of the 39 members of the draft budget law, and Minister Vujovic mentions peanuts, seeds, and Minister Sertic speaks when you were in power. When was I in power? Never. I've only just been elected People's MP now, but I'm fighting here to work transparently, crediblely, responsibly... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42122	You didn't understand. Mr. Sertic spoke to your colleague, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, who was prime minister of the government, but you still don't understand. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42123	You won't believe me. I asked my colleague, Mijailovic, the same question. So, first of all, to be clear, I don't like the wording. We've come to a deeper analysis of the next conclusion. In the first sentence, the key word is which one they use. So, on that basis, it's based on the use. So, it's a rough formulation, but if you do, you'll see it's about the next one. It cannot be one beneficiary of a budget, which has some space, whether it is his or it is rented, that he gives it to someone else, and that he collects from it anything other than, which we economists would call, the additional costs of that use: current maintenance, electricity, heating, etc., if it exists. In the next article there is an explanation that slightly improves it, which says – if there is a special account, then the one that benefits will pay that account, if it doesn't exist, then there will be another way. But we can't get away. We could fix this position, but to erase it would be wrong, because it would significantly violate the principle that we do not allow renting between the beneficiaries of the budget. The point of a member is fine. The formulation, I admit, is not ideal. It would be better if you suggested a change of text, if it were more precise, then I'd be happy to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42124	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with you, Mr. Minister, that it was necessary for this member to be more specific. I guess it's our idea, I guess, for all of us, our goal is to make the laws simpler, more readable, and clearer, that there are no misunderstandings. Unfortunately, we've had very little time to edit even better and better quality amendments, so that's our contribution to saying that it's deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42126	The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42127	Thank you, Madam President. I think this article 18 should stay. I think he's good, regardless of the intricacies of the formulation. Why do I say that? Our country introduces order in all areas. We didn't know until a few months ago how many employees we had in the public administration. We spoke 400, 500 thousand, and in the end when we made the list, thanks to Ms. Secretary Kori Udovici, we have 780,000 employees. Also, when we talk about business space, this country hasn't done it so far. The state will make a full list of everything it has, know what it manages, and be sure it manages very economically. It will no longer be possible to use state-owned business space without knowing who it pays, so that privates or other tenants can collect enormous rents, while the state remains short-sleeved. As it stands in this 2016 budget, it is the state that will strictly take care of its economic priorities. I also believe that the SDPS believes that this amendment, as it is, should remain in this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42128	The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42129	Madam President, eight seconds left while you were changing speakers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Ministers of the Government, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted the amendment to Article 19. Draft budget law. On the occasion of our amendment to Article 19, I would like to ask Mr Sertic a question that has not been answered so far. The question concerns those 17 billion based on contracts. Here's a question, Minister Sertić, why is there no redistributing extra employees in the draft budget law instead of standing? I don't think there's a citizen in our Republic who doesn't know that what this says here is "contract-based services" is usually a mask for hiring, hiring or paying party troops. That means that the item is wrong, especially, Minister Sertic, if it is in 404 positions. Minister Vujovic says -- it's peanuts, it's seeds, but we found 404 positions. I ask – why don't we redistribute the extra staff, not constantly be afraid of any government in which, by means of the bypass, Mr. Ilic knows, through Mala Krsna, that this item will be used by the ruling parties to employ their party armies. Please, Mr. Sertice, answer my question. Why not apply our proposal to resolve this issue in this way? If you answer me, and it'll be this reasonable, appropriate, I'll withdraw this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42130	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42131	Article 106 of Article 1 has been injured, Madam President. I won't ask you to vote, of course. I understand the amendment's proposal, or the previous speaker. The 2016 budget is excellently written, an excellent forecast of the revenue and expenditure side has been made. I understand the MPs who have submitted the amendments, but that they cannot criticise, that they cannot give criticism, because they cannot criticise the 2016 budget, because it is developmental, because it is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but please, Madam President, do not let everything be told. We are now, instead of the amendment to Article 19, that other users of public funds are paying rents, etc., etc., etc., we have heard about Little Cross. What will be in Article 20? Maybe about Feckettic or some other geography, so anyone can get up and talk about whatever they want. If he can't criticise it, it's fair to say - okay, I've made a mistake, I'll vote or I won't vote for this budget, but to talk about what comes to mind, I don't think it's fair either to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but not to the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42132	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers and Honored Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, injured several members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 106, and then members of 171 to 178. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which concerns the debate on the draft budget law. Mr Babic, respected Mrs Gojkovic, reported here to reprove you because you did not tell me that I should talk about the agenda points and then Mr Babic was talking about something for the first minute that did not concern the breach of the Rules of Procedure that he advertised. Dear gentlemen, Mr. Babic, I think it particularly stands out here, amongst us MPs, which, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, he uses those two minutes to explain how injured the Rules of Procedure is, replicating other MPs. Mr Babic particularly points out that instead of talking about what is the agenda point he mentions things, it goes so extensively in the width that it is really difficult for people to go back to what is the agenda point. I felt, Mrs Gojkovic, that it was not appropriate for Mr Babic to abuse in this way one of the rights that he really is provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that it was the obligation of the National Assembly president to warn that MP when he noticed that the MP was misusing his rights. I, the Honorable President, have prepared myself thoroughly for a debate on the draft budget law and I will speak on each of the 114 amendments that we have tabled on these 12 agenda points of this session of our National Assembly, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42134	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42135	The Rules of Procedure, Madam President, Article 107, have been injured. I have no doubt that a fellow MP was preparing, but in that preparation, instead of budget, he used atlas, and we are not in the geography class, to hear about Mali Krsna, but we are here to listen to the 2016 budget. On the other hand, Madam President, you did not warn, you did not warn the MP Vladimir Pavicevic, who is very bold, but also, I do not know what appropriate expression I would use when he fingered me. I think it's terrible and it's bad and I'm bad today, and here on all social networks, I don't know what to do with much less than Mr. Sutanovec's finger, who today was in a different position because he threatened, and Mr. Pavicevic resisted that same finger. I think you had to warn Mr. Pavicevic about that. I'm going to use this 50-ac, 40 seconds actually, I've discovered why Mr. Pavicevic is doing this. He's doing all this for statistics, ladies and gentlemen, so that he can portray this statistic of showing up at the National Assembly, at the National Assembly, as his own or his party's support. Well, don't mix the grandmothers and frogs, I think it's a mistreatment of the National Assembly. I have now fully shown that I am right, that Mr Pavicevic violates the Rules of Procedure and uses the National Assembly only for his personal promotion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42136	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Dr Miroslav Marinkovic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42137	The Honorable Madam President of the Assembly, members of the Government, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, to member of the 19th SDS parliamentary group Boris Tadic has tabled an amendment that is said to be deleted in article 19. Article 19 states that other users of public funds using business space, movable things managed by direct or indirect users. So someone who gives as a direct or indirect user, and this is Mr. Minister in a small-time explanation and cited as a lack of this, is given the possibility that they are doing it all, according to the regulations or criteria prescribed by the Government. We believe that this solution of Article 19 is illogical and that it is unacceptable simply because it opens up the possibility of major abuses that are possible both by the government and by the users, and a colleague has also pointed out that the question of how much does the government know about the list of real estates, i.e. the means that would put into use in this way. This opens up the possibility for corrupt people, we do not doubt good intentions and good will to make the state a certain amount of money on this basis, however, any goodwill, when a man wants abuse to be the very opposite of himself and beyond reason. I urge Mr. Minister to reconsider this amendment once more to Article 19 and that the amendment be adopted in order to deprive himself of the possibility of being in a situation, to be accused of here, unconscious business.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42138	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42139	Thank you, President. We from the SPS parliamentary group have followed closely today's debate on amendments. We did not want to report on many amendments because we believe, as one colleague today said there really is one senselessness and we stand firm behind it, because some colleagues are putting up with it, and this is what I am saying to make Serbian citizens hear, to know that they are fighting for their better standards, a better position by submitting to the amendments they simply write about – is deleted. So, the whole day of the amendment, and it's completely unclear to me why, if we talk about amendments and if the amendment is submitted, it's deleted, and there's no suggestion of any other creative ones, other than to delete anything. Since counterpart Pavicevic swears he was not in power, that he is the first MP, that he knows nothing, I think it would be good, and it is not polite, perhaps to talk about his president who was also prime minister and for a long time, I may also be able to have the opportunity to discuss later on the results of his work, how much GDP growth was then and what was expected and what defeat he experienced as prime minister of the then government. So this is just a really pointless debate. Simply, if the amendment is all day long for each member of this bill, the draft budget is deleted, I really don't know if my colleague Pavicevic, his party president, who, when they came to power, deleted 100,000 workers each year from the company, and at one point we came to a figure of 400,000 people who had lost their jobs, by their doing, their privatisations, 24 privatisations that were controversial, 20 were during the term of office, perhaps I was wrong more or less during the term of office of the then government, which was chaired by Zivkovic. If we want to, since there's a controversy around GDP and growth rates here, then three and a half to four percent were projected in 2003, and then the finance minister who in the then government was quite another story, you can take it to look at the stenograms, and real growth then in 2003, the real state was minus one and a half percent, and then they found us to hold a lecture today. That's really embarrassing and pointless. The citizens of Serbia, as you watch and monitor this transmission, Mr Pavicevic and Mr. Zivkovic are submitted from the first to the last amendment – deleted, deleted. So I have repeated this many times, and in previous discussions on the proposals for various amendments and additions to the law and the laws, they know nothing else, but they are deleted. I don't know what would happen if we adopted theirs. Are they conscious? Are you aware, Serbian citizens, of how they fight for your rights? To get room to talk, to spend both your time and our time and to make constructions out of submitting the amendment "be deleted" so they can tell us stories here. I think, President, you're allowing them too much and all the chairmans. Simply, if the amendment is specifically "expected", why is it deleted? Not to listen to any demagogue stories all day. I'll join in on the other amendments later. Of course, these are again the amendments “wipes out. ” It's just amazing to me that someone who's an intellectual, admits, respected, simply doesn't know, so let them hire someone to help him, write him a meaningful amendment, and at least propose something useful, suggests from one position to another. I will remind you, dear colleagues, they have submitted one amendment when adopting the previous budget, so I have pointed out on the Finance Committee and asked the question - is it possible that the signator of such an amendment should be the former Prime Minister? In that amendment, it was to be removed from some position, and it was not placed in which position to go. Then when they saw that they didn't know one amendment meaningful to write, then it's easier for them to write – it's deleted, so they don't embarrass themselves to write the amendments because we're going to come up with them, because they simply don't know that they're putting one position in another position. It's not easy to write an amendment to the budget, but I don't understand when the other laws are in the procedure that you don't even know that, except for the point, the comma and your dictionaries that you have there. I think it's really funny and they need Serbian citizens watching this transmission to know what it's about. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42140	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. His opinion was, he kept quiet for 24 hours, and he answered for the first time. He's entitled to his opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42141	Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42142	I will give you back all the time in this world, just to convince Pavicevic that he cannot speak alone today. Thank you for understanding. Sign up again and we'll start at zero. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42143	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no matter what my doctor, who has declared this a sanctuary of democracy, challenged the right to equality, the right to democracy to interpret the drafts of the law and amendments, here I have dared to say that I should advise that his amendment be accepted. We need to redistribute these employees from the state sector, so let's say those from the Faculty of Political Sciences, those who have only theoretical knowledge that is not applicable, and send the docs a little bit to the PKK, Sremska Mitrovica, those properties, the Padinska Skela, etc. And their friends. Because a man interprets himself in the society in which he moves, and so I suggest you carefully consider this amendment and make that redistribution. With that in mind, I also advise you to answer these questions as little as possible, because it's hard to find a smart answer to stupid questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42144	Thank you. National MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted the 20th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42145	Thank you. This amendment, I would ask the honourable MPs to listen, is more relevant to the Parliament itself than to the Government. It does not affect the government's work, and can bring more transparency into the work of the government, especially in the part in which the government is said to be able to decide to write off the request of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, please, just listen to me, this takes two minutes. So, Article 20 concerning the government's decision to write off the debt, I suggest that the government can instruct the Assembly to decide on that. For what? Well, we're making a decision today on a budget that probably contains much less items than any debt write-off. I don't see why parliament wouldn't decide, which is why MPs would take that right away from me. Let's just say, we know it's for example. Belgrade Airport wrote off a debt of two billion dinars "Er Serbia". It is fine with me if the majority in parliament would make that decision. I think this is a good thing for both the government and the opposition. I don't see any reason not to, and I'm asking you to reconsider this question. I don't really think it's having a crucial impact, you have a majority, you can decide that here, but I think it's very important from the perspective of transparency and what we like to say to the public, it's very important. Here, I beg you, Minister, think before my colleague Babic gives me a replica, and then we get confused, whether you accept it or not. If you say yes now, we will prevent further debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42146	Thank you. Members of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic, Milan Petrovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and together by Parliament group Boris Tadic, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42147	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, Mr. Vujovic, since you did not respond to Mr. Sutanovac, for this reason I thought you rejected the proposal. I'm making a different proposal now, so that article 20 can be deleted. For the simple reason that Article 20 reads -- the government can decide to write off requests from the Republic of Serbia created on the basis of loans and commitments paid, based on guarantees issued to economic operators, as well as the conversion of certain Serbia's achievements based on loans from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the capital of debtors. Do you, as a minister, think it is normal after the further collapse of citizens' standards, and when it comes to pay and pension cuts, and when new excises and new purchases are involved, that you, their money, this budget here, Mr Vujovic, is their money, can be so easily distributed to public or other businesses and write off debts despite the fact that 74% of GDP is Serbia's debt? Well, we don't think it has anything to do with any morals. In a situation where they cannot make ends meet and cannot expect any improvement in 2016, you can write off as the Air Serbia debt was written off in 2014. So 55% of young people are unemployed. You didn't put any single dinar on the issue in Serbia. They leave Serbia daily and flee the country daily. From 2012 to today, 120,000 people have gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42148	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42149	Let me just tell you for a second. I'm reading this article carefully, and I'm glad you've turned your attention to that member. The intention is to allow those claims which are not remunerated in accordance with the Privatisation Act, so this is not forgiveness of claims from the pure peace, these are enterprises which cannot enter or advance a restructuring programme or otherwise privatise the claims of the Republic, i.e. public sector claims are not converted into capital. (Dragan Sutanovac, from the post: Serbian Parliament. But, look, this is about the Ministry's proposal. You propose an amendment to do this in the Assembly, but it's not operational, it's basically all going to the Department of Economy's proposal. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Transparent. It's transparent, it's perfectly transparent. It is proposed to individual government decisions as an integral part of the programme, an advanced restructuring programme or privatisation of these enterprises. So, you might be able to fix the formulation, I haven't carefully observed every word here, but the bottom line of this is that in a situation where there are claims from the tax administration, claims from the state given on some loans, etc., that can't be charged. So the point here is that it's not about claims that can be charged, it's about where the only way to find a solution for a company is either to convert these claims into capital or to agree that everyone together will bear the cost of it to enable the restructuring of the company. So if something needs to change in the text, look what can change, but that's the point. Mr Sertic can answer how it has worked so far in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42150	Thank you. The minister can't answer, you've used your time. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Can I have a word? He can't, I'm sorry. (Balsa Bozovic, from place: 10 seconds, please. I believe so, and ten is a violation. And the money when you steal is the same as ten dinars and ten million. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42151	Article 20. The draft budget law for 2016 is, as such, subject to corruption. Namely, business entities that take loans from the budget and sponsor a political party in power or individuals can now or later expect and ask the government to make a decision on the write-off of their claims. The article says that the government can decide without precise parameters on how to make such a decision. The question arises – what will the law ever do to us, if the human factor makes decisions? I don't see the point. So the selective power of decision should not have any government, not just this one, and any of the following. I must point out that the argument contains more guidance than Article 20 itself, and it should be quite the opposite. This article must be completed or deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42152	Thank you. Carrier, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42153	Dear Madam President, members of the government, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have been fortunate to be able to explain this amendment after the explanation of Mr. Minister, who does not listen to me. My colleagues before me have brought out a lot of elements that speak very clearly about what is the problem with this member. So I'll just add some things. It's not a fundamental question here what we want to do, it's how we want to do it. Madam President, I'm running out of time, but never mind, my time is just coming. I wanted to make it very clear. So it's not about what this amendment is about, it's about who's assessing it. Of course, much greater capacity has the National Assembly, which was elected in the direct elections, which later chooses the government, without doubting at all the well-meaning of the government, which was not even questioned here. But what he says: "The human race is adornment of reason." Find a reasonable explanation because this member cannot be fixed differently than deleted and completely different formulate. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42154	Vladimir Pavicevic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs. Udovici, you are now the only lady when I speak of members and members of the Government, and respected ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Bozovic and Marinkovic are one part already, explaining their amendments to Article 20. The draft law on the write-offs of claims made by the Republic of Serbia on the basis of loans and obligations paid on the basis of guarantees issued to economic operators, said a good part of what I had also prepared as an argument for the amendment. Since this has already been justified in good works, I am now using the time to ask two questions to our ministers, primarily Minister Sertic and Minister Vujovic. On the occasion of this amendment to Article 20, Mrs Gojkovic, first Mr Sertic to explain - why did the government not prepare a methodology for assessing the effects of subsidies, since the policy of subsidising investors continues? Mr. Sertic, Mrs. Widowsky, there's no methodology. It means throwing money into the fire. Why isn't there a methodology? That's my question all day. There is no answer to that question, gentlemen. Now on amendment to Article 20. And I have to ask Minister Vujovic here now to explain, if possible -- how is it that our companies, such as Telecom, today, Minister Vujovic, are worth less than they were worth in 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42156	MP, a little bit on the subject of going back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42157	That's the theme, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42158	Really?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42159	Budget draft. Well, look out, Mr. Wolf, you know what he said?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42160	No, it's not a whole budget proposal now. Now they're amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42161	The budget is a book, it says, in which all political...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42162	But not when we talk about concrete amendments. What's going on with article 20, so you can wipe it out?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42163	A specific question, Mrs. Gojkovic, was referred to the ministers. I expect an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42164	He can't. They've wasted time, two minutes. They answered your first. Read the Rules of Procedure. There's time till morning, and we'll take him down.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42165	So they can't answer. Okay. Maybe Mr. Babic can answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42166	Zoran Babic can speak. His MP group has time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42167	It's the same thing, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42168	It has a hypocritical and rude effect, Madam President, when representatives of the former regime, and those of the former regimes now sitting in the National Assembly Hall until some year ago led the city of Belgrade, led in such a way that Belgrade's debt was at the historic maximum, unrecorded, of 22%, that you and such are concerned about Serbia's public debt participation in the gross social product. Please, Mr Vujovic, I am sure that you and your associates have this data - how much was the public debt in 2008, what was the public debt in 2012, when the border was breached, the legal limit, of 45% and, as a fourth question, is it possible that this one verse that started in 2008, because of the reckless relationship of the Democratic Party government towards public finances, and this enormous borrowing, at various levels and at enormously high interest rates, could be stopped at one point, or is it an inert that might take a few more months for us to stop and that wheel to return? Please, Mr. Vujovic, if you can answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42169	Janko Veseninović, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42170	Article 27. Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry Vice President Becic came out. You could have compared the way the session was conducted and the attitude towards the opposition and the position at this point. So, Mr. Babic has now told Mr. Pavicevic that he is hypocritical and rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42171	No, he said, “It is hypocritical when someone is speaking, ” and he did not say, “you are hypocritical. That's a huge difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42172	He looked back on his discussion. So you didn't even warn him. Similar expressions were taken from opposition representatives yesterday and punished. Two opposition MPs were punished with four warnings, four fines, ahead of a threat of disfellowshipping from the session. For similar things, you chat with Mr. Becic who did it yesterday to disable the MPs of the opposition...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42173	Well, now you've offended me, and now I'm talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42174	Is the word "chat" offensive?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42175	I do, when I'm serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42176	It is offensive to say “hypocritical. ” Don't, please, replace the thesis. This isn't funny to me. So you have an unequal relationship with the opposition MPs and positions. As a rule, when opposition MPs speak to the chairman, Mr Becic, who probably has a special task that they cannot express their views, but suffer terror from the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42177	Thank you. You insulted me and Becic, I can't come to my senses. I don't know what to say to you. Who doesn't go crazy, he's not normal at all. I don't understand how I'm supposed to run the session anymore. I'm sorry, I'm trying to give everyone my word – it's no good again. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42178	Article 107(1), Madam President. Being “turned over ” does not give him the right to reverse my words. On the other hand, I had no intention of plowing with Mr. Pavicevic because I don't have atlas on me, you know, I don't even have a globe, because Mr. Pavicevic is mostly talking about such geographical issues. What he said earlier – via Little Cross, etc. But, clearly and loudly, and thank you for rightly explaining to whom it was directed, and it was directed to those who led the city of Belgrade until just a few years ago, to lead our country. As for the relationship to the opposition, you know, I know when Mr. Janko Veselinovic sat in this room and applauded when the chairman threw out an entire parliamentary group. He didn't mind at the time. That's when he applauded. It was a good relationship to the opposition back then. And now the relationship when you're trying to create an atmosphere of a decent and normal dialogue turns into I don't know what else. So, since that turn, you can spin in your head, but only you continue in that way, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42179	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Well, I said, "Whoever doesn't go mad is not normal." I don't know otherwise, now whatever you want. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42180	Dear citizens of Serbia, respected ministers, I think it is hypocritical and extremely rude that of 400 and some of the amendments we have proposed for this debate, almost no amendment has been accepted, and this amendment that I have tabled is concerned, above all, with local administrations and the basic goal was to try to address the problem of local administration functioning through this amendment, Mr Vujovic. I must remind you, my motive was, above all, that we heard statements from ministers here recently who believe that more than 90% of the president of Serbia's municipalities, that they were people who didn't deserve to do these jobs and that they didn't meet the expectations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, given that in the proposed 2016 budget, local administrations will be damaged by over 8.5 billion dinars. Given that they still function in a very difficult situation today, I felt it would be good to consider, first of all for large debts, the large guarantees given to local administrations in the previous period, due to the inability of the mayor and the president of the municipalities, considering the possibility that these claims should be taken over, i.e. the conversion of these debts, be taken over by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here you have statements from the mayor of large cities, such as Mr Perisic of Nis, who believes that with the adoption of this budget proposal for 2016, more than 40% of local administrations in Serbia will be at the ultimate limit of functioning. Mr. Granny, I think you should support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42181	Time. I'm sorry. You didn't plan that well. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42182	So let me answer you first. Dear Mr. Perisic has confused the Law on the financing of local self-government only in the first draft, he is hanged on the Ministry's site and where we are still expecting first meetings and discussions on the law. The law, in whatever text, will enter into force only on 1 January 2017. It has nothing to do with this budget, since the transfers here are unchanged compared to last year. So that's a complete mistake. As for Mr Babic's issues in 2008, the participation of public debt in the social product was 28.3% and 56.2% in 2012. So, double, and the 45% limit that was set by the Budgetary System Act as one of the elements of fiscal performance was transferred in 2011. Between 2008 and 2011, debt participation increased by 17% from 28.3% to 45.4%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42183	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42184	Thank you, President. [[Jovan Markovic, from the post: Do I have the right to reply?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42185	Please, don't disturb order and peace in the hall, Dejan Radenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42186	Please cancel this time, since this is being taken away from the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42187	I'm counting, 18 seconds plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42188	Okay, but the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42189	Don't worry, I'm the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42190	All right, thank you. Since you're the president's system. Mr President, if you could just listen to me, I didn't want to report to the Rules of Procedure, I have time for an authorised representative of the MP's group and I'd just like you to pay attention if we want to continue what happened today as it was, but I think that in this next part of the debate we should pay a little attention and focus on the amendments that he has submitted. The esteemed colleague who submitted the amendment, the simple amendment is completely identical only differs in the part where he says it - based on a proposal from the competent ministry. Only the competent Ministry of Industry has been expelled and we are positing about what Perisic said or what Janko said or what someone else said and fighting for local self-government. That's a lie. That's ridiculous. He has proposed an amendment that has nothing to do with local self-government, but says he is fighting for local self-government. Let's focus a little bit, base ourselves on the amendments submitted and the amendment debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42191	Thank you. No, you don't. [[Jovan Markovic, from the post: Do I now have the right to reply?]] (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Then I have to go to the Rules of Procedure. You don't have to follow the Rules of Procedure if you don't want punishment. Now you want to abuse. You think there's a new member who's not broken today? What member is it? All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42192	Madam Chairman, it's not again, so I'm calling on article 107. Stand one, if you can listen to me since you probably haven't heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42193	I'm listening, article 107. Stand 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42194	Since you probably didn't hear, because you talked to a colleague that the previous speaker said that I was lying and that it probably wasn't a reason for you to get a replica, then I had to call the Rules of Procedure. Since you have very funnyly introduced this part of the discussion into such a flow, then I expect you to at least be so focused, that you follow the discussions and see that this was an insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42195	Thank you for your insult, but I've been taken care of, you don't know to what extent I've taken care of.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42196	Then you think it's okay to tell me I'm lying.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42197	He didn't tell you you were lying. Now I'll take a stenogram if he says you're a liar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42198	That's exactly what he said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42199	You will be given the right to respond in the middle of a discussion of the other MPs. Please, a stenogram to bring to me, to see where Dejan Radenkovic said Markovic was a liar, and I'm convinced he wasn't. He could have, but he didn't say for sure. Members of the 21st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – ZZS... I have to get a stenogram, I can't get women, I don't know what to do now, they need time. Please don't interrupt me. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – ZZS – ZS. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs. Udovic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I find it inappropriate that our government guests answer only questions asked by Mr. Zoran Babic, who is head of the SNS parliamentary group. Mr. Sertic, it's necessary, I think you're answering our questions, and I just asked two questions. If necessary, Mr. Sertice, I can repeat those two questions. Here, these questions, Mr. Sertic, confirm now, wants to answer those questions. The first question, why did the government not prepare a methodology for assessing the effects of subsidies, as reading this draft budget law makes it clear that the policy of subsidising investors will continue. We ask, gentlemen, so I guess that's the thinking of all the MPs here, and where the methodology for assessing the effects of these subsidies is. So that we don't have Mr. Sertic, that one company to which the subsidy is to make a loss, and then on the basis of the subsidies, it was announced that it was a successful business, Mr. Sertic. I asked Minister Vujovic and you the second question, as is the most recent case today that our companies, such as Telecom, are now worth less than they were worth in 2011. Mr. Vukic presented a formula at a press conference today on the basis of which we calculated what the offer was. Today we know how long it was in 2011 Telecom. So after three and a half years of advanced governance in Serbia, today it is worth less, Mr Sertic. How do you explain that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42201	Thank you. Just to listen to Miroslav Marinkovic, as an applicant, and then we'll listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42202	Dear Madam President, members of the government, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, to member of my 21st parliamentary group Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party has tabled an amendment that reads: "is deleted" this member. This article reads: ‘The direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget in 2016 account for the correction of the value of non-financial assets point to the burden of capital, i.e. do not show the cost of depreciation and use of labour resources’. So we think that this article imposes an obligation on economic operators to artificially reduce their own value, because in this way it is suggested that something is done that will reduce the value of these organisations. This article imposes an obligation on economic operators to artificially reduce the value to appear in a way, as stated in the response in Article 79. Budgetary system law. That our amendment does not affect that value being preserved, but that it is important that this member exists so that it could be later. However, there is no point in doing so if you force one entity to use certain means to depreciate these funds through a reduction in its own value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42203	The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42204	Dear MPs, some of you on this left side of me, unfortunately, as if they hadn't been here a month ago in this same assembly when we talked about the Investment Law, when we weren't talking about the criteria that we had set up after more than 10 years of granting subsidies to this country, which led to us breaking out of the 273 contracts of 90 contracts, because the money was given without any criteria and without any control in the previous period. In this same assembly, you respected MPs, by the vast majority, have passed the Investment Act, which precisely defined six clear criteria for granting and not only subsidies in terms of additional incentives for financial, but also customs incentives, tax incentives, any other obligations and possibilities that the law provides for. The first criterion is the number of newly established jobs, then the type and amount of investment. Third, the impact on the overall external trade balance of the Republic of Serbia. Fourth, long-term investment. Fifth, creating a large or adding value in the Republic of Serbia and the sixth reference and credibility of investors. If we had described it this way, so plus a rule that will be adopted in January, it wouldn't have happened to us if we had so many investors or under investors' means to punish them for being sued and looking for our money back. On the issue of granting subsidies, as respected colleagues often say, that is, MPs to the losing company, I will tell you what losses are, what is the difference between JAT and "Er Serbia", just two years from 2012 and 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42205	Thank you, Minister's time. The 22nd Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. Vladimir Pavicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42206	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers and Mr Mijailovic, Mr Sertic, as you can see, comes our time and I will now try to further argue, our amendment to Article 22. Draft budget law. I see you've been given help here, but I don't think it'll help you, Mr. Sertic. Here's what Mr. Vukic said, to quote a little here, dear gentlemen, and not as some of your authorities who represent other people's ideas as their own, respected gentlemen, so this is what they say without a quote, and says Mr. Vukic, "What is important for the Budget Law? Many say whether it's restrictive, whether it's developmental, I would define this budget as a good, slightly conservative one. What does that mean when I say a little conservative? This means exactly what the Fiscal Council stressed, where I agree with them." Dear gentlemen, the Fiscal Council says we're a little logically connecting the contents. The fiscal council says – there is considerable uncertainty about how much deficit will be achieved in 2016. Inefficient implementation of public policies and one-time incomes can reduce it, but some unplanned obligations can come toll, gentlemen. Mr. Vukic says - I agree with the evaluation of the Fiscal Council which is a criticism of this budget. The fiscal council adds, and says – gentlemen, the implementation of public revenue and public expenditure in this year 2015 points to serious weaknesses in planning and budget implementation that can easily be repeated in 2016. What do they think, Minister Sertic, Udovic, Ilic, so here is Mr Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42207	Here you go, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42208	Thank you, President. I think it is high time that you set yourself up according to certain MPs who are clearly misusing the Rules of Procedure, so I call for a violation of article 158 in relation to article 27. Rules of Procedure. This is by who knows which way to break one of the basic principles, when it comes to the rights of MPs in relation to the submission of amendments, in relation to the reasoning. Article 158 unequivocally states that each applicant of the amendment has the right to explain his amendment, but that to explain does not mean that he is being abused, and abuses seem to be from amendments to amendments. We will not talk about what abuse is - wipe out. We'll talk about what it feels like to do with something that has nothing to do with reason. What about the invitation, the prime minister, the members of the government, to anyone else, not the essence of the amendment. In addition, I have said a hundred times so far on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group that the way the amendment is set up with the aim of eradicating is solely the result of destructive action in relation to the draft budget law, if we had heard some meaningful explanation, the SPS parliamentary group, and certainly most MPs here would have considered the possibility to analyse the amendment in any way, it would not have to be accepted. Any meaningful explanation provides an opportunity for the amendment to be analysed. This is how this option is also denied and therefore I ask you, President, or as our business conscience, dear fellow Pavicevic, often says, ma'am, I ask you to now finally determine the application of the Rules of Procedure according to the People's MP as the Rules of Procedure reads. Thank you. And I won't go on, because time's over. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42209	What do you suggest I do? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: To apply the Rules of Procedure. Not to let him speak and explain, I can't. Marijan Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising Article 106, 107, 108, etc., the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am a bit of a timid man. The amendment promoter here is yelling at us and thus disrupting the dignity of the National Assembly. The narrower his arguments, the louder the noise, the louder the noise, the more the noise, and it hurts our health. If this continues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to shout, to wave with their hands, it's a shame, there's no pensioners here anymore, I'm going to be looking for an unfettered job internship...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42211	MP, there's a group of MPs. He's here. Please don't. They're here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42212	But on shift, Madam President. They're on shift. It's a draft. Here, ask them. They're waving their hands and screaming so much that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42213	All right, MP, thank you, too. Let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42214	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42215	Thank you. Do you want to vote? I think that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42216	Hold on. I'm not asking you to vote on that, but I'm looking for an underprivileged job for shouting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42217	Zoran Babic, I apologize, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42218	Replica, Madam President. I think Mr. Pavicevic mentioned me, here, which confirms by nod. Infinitely, truly, I respect the Fiscal Council, I think that there are extremely professional and intelligent people sitting. The fiscal council, however, is not a sacred letter either. It's a good thing the amendment promoter from the atlas moved on to professional literature, at least when it comes to the budget. But I'm going to introduce you, especially him, but everyone else, to some data. The 2015 budget envisioned a 191 billion dinar deficit. The fiscal council has made the forecast that the deficit will be higher and will amount to as much as 230 billion dinars. These are the data used by the amendment promoter. On the contrary, in December 2015, however, we now have a deficit that is an immeasurably smaller, or half of that deficit that was intended or slightly more than 40% of the deficit that the Fiscal Council predicted. How many times are these better results achieved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Furthermore, the same fiscal council that I respect infinitely predicted a GDP decline for, i.e., a 0.5% drop in GDP, the Fiscal Council estimated that the decline would be greater, even down to 1.5%. However, we can now think and talk about the success of the government of Alexander Vukic that this year we do not have a fall, but we have a 1% growth. Therefore, all the arguments made by the amendment promoter fall into the water in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42219	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42220	I'd just like to point to Article 107's injury. Our colleague Risticevic called a PUPS parliamentary group with the intention of bad or not, but we are really as decent people trying not to engage in controversy. We take great care of what we say, we don't call our colleagues. If you look at the captains, you'll see that we're among the most present and ultimately, not all pensioners, I'm not the first to be retired, so we sit neatly and do our job very dedicatedly, so we expect an apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42221	I agree, that's why I interrupted the MP. I interrupted the MP, and now I'm going to end this together, because we owe the citizens of Serbia a budget or at least a discussion about it. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42222	Thank you. You are trying to, in fact, not to try, but to regulate something already regulated by the Standard Classification Framework Regulation, and we do not feel that there is any need for these members of the law to define the economic classification from which the AP Vojvodina budget will be directed by means to carry out trusted tasks. The constitution clearly defined that the Republic of Serbia is obliged in situations in which the AP Vojvodina is entrusted to provide funds to carry out these tasks. When it comes to the AP Vojvodina, instead of offering to define things that have already been defined by other legal acts, it would be much better to make sure that it is provided with a constitutional minimum of 7%. Instead of doing so, you have defined yourself to put in the AP Vojvodina budget the opposite of the law which cannot be in such a way that an autonomous province cannot achieve its obligation, a mandatory three-week commitment to capital investment or belongs to 7% of the budget. So again, I'm saying, the way to get out of this situation is to adopt law on funding the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which, I mean, you're going to have a lot of problems, all of which, even if you want to do it, your behavior so far doesn't suggest that you even want that law to be passed. Unlike other ministers from your party, you did not create a working group, but you said the conditions for this law to be passed, to adopt a law on the financing of local self-government, etc. As far as we're concerned, you could also say that the condition for the adoption of this law is for Serbia to enter the EU because it's equally incorrect that you said... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42223	Time. Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers, I see that the ladies who are members of the Government have decided to leave this society here are probably convinced of our argument, Mr Sertic. We propose to be a member of the 23rd. The draft budget law is deleted. In Article 23, it states – for transactions that are in accordance with the Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Duchyvodina, do as trusted, the funds are channelled from the economic classification 463. It is necessary, I think, here, that, as an association first in relation to the content of this article of the draft budget law, we have Article 184(4). The Constitution and that every man who is seriously involved in politics in our country the first association here is the necessity of constitutional review. It is necessary as regards this matter which is directly related to the content of Article 23. The draft budget law concerning the status of the AP Vojvodina, but also many other issues we face as the major problems of our Constitution. There are a huge number of problems, procedural, measurement, substances that arise from the way our Constitution was adopted and from the contents of that Constitution. Here I have one more thing to say to Mr. Babic who here mentions atlases, geography and so on, that I didn't come up with a tour around Little Cross, but Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42225	Now, I'm gonna shut you down. There's no Little Cross in the amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Here, Vukic. ) When Mr. Babic comes, you'll tell him, won't you? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Deal. () Great, does anyone want to discuss this amendment to Article 23, because we occasionally lose a thread and no one listens to anyone? So, 22 was answered by Minister Sertic, I have a stenogram. Does anyone want to join article 23? Do you want ministers on Article 23? (Dusan Vujovic, from town: I want to respond to 21, 22, 23... He can't. To Article 23. So we're having a session, we're having a session, and everyone has to watch what's going on here. (Dusan Vujovic, from the post: I will then get out of the O.R., since you are not having a good session at all. ) Thank you for your compliment that I do not have a good session. It's very difficult to hold a session when I have to run 20 violations of the Rules of Procedure and convince ministers three days to see the Rules of Procedure where they have two minutes per member. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, they filed... (Dusan Vujovic, from town: Give me to 23.) You're at 23 now, you just said 22. (Dusan Vujović, from place: 22nd and 23rd please. Don't yell at me, I hear very well. (Dusan Vujovic, from the city: I am not shouting. ) Stopping for 15 minutes to rest ministers and MPs and get back to work. (Dusan Vujovic, from the place: Don't let me rest, but give me your word. ) [[after breaks]] Can we keep going? Have we all rested? Does anyone want to speak to article 23? The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. (Jovan Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. You can't. Here you go, Minister. No, you can't. There's no damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42227	So Article 23 explains how transfers are carried out at lower levels of government and only, since this is part of the budget execution, he says lower levels of government are done over the 463 contact no more. Therefore, it must be done in one regulated system in which the budget is implemented under these rules. With this in mind, the call to delete Article 23 and to delete all previous members who are important for ensuring the realisation of the budget would cause total chaos in the country's payment system, the implementation of the budget because this would destroy the so-called consolidated account of the vault, which would cause chaos because we would not know how transfers from funds made at the level of the republic are transferred to municipalities, are transferred to the AP Vojvodina. As a result, we cannot accept the amendments that read "is deleted" either in Article 21 or in Article 22 or 23. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42228	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42229	The President-in-Office, I point out the violation of Article 108(2), where it is said that, due to a breach of order in the haystacks, etc., the President of the National Assembly may impose measures on the reminders, confiscation of words or so on. I still expect from you and your colleague, Becic, to establish the record and ask you to state whether the colleague who spoke before me in the discussion Dejan Radenkovic said that I lied or did not lie and that in some way condemn it. And the fact that it's become a habit for you to have everything you're saying... (Disabled micforone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42230	Okay. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: May I continue? You can't, because you can't wait... I'm gonna give you a ticket. I really can't go out with you any other way. I'll give you a ticket. Everything has its limits. I didn't get the record. So, what do you want now? Are you the most important MP here in parliament to stop working to get a stenogram, to determine what everyone knows and every little child who watched the transfer, that it was not spoken of? Oh, I used article 112. Well, we'll vote I hurt the Rules of Procedure and that's it. But let us work. Don't obstruct in such a transparent way. Sit down, please. (Dejan Radenkovic, from town: Replica. No, you don't have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry. About the amendment, I presume? Thank God. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42231	Dear Madam President, gentlemen of the Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we return to the amendment. I suggest that this amendment be rejected for four reasons. The first reason, because it's pointless, the second reason, which is unrealistic, the third reason, which is a surplus and fourth reason why it's tenant, because it's affecting the AP Vojvodina's status as, I quote one of the promoters, and he said. I also agree with Mr. Minister that they would actually annul the country's legal system if they adopted it and in the country's legal system, chaos would arise. The amendment's promoter also had a remark under this amendment that only Mr. Ministers address Mr. Babic as the president of the parliamentary group. He's absolutely right, because look here who are representatives of the parliamentary groups, except for Mr Babic and Mr Mijatovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42232	About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42233	Here's the finish line. There's no one to turn to. There's the two of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42234	I'm asking you about the amendment, no matter what it says, it's deleted. Thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Goran Bogdanović and Blaža Bradić. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42235	Dear ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Guests... The Messengers of the people earn me; it is not heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42236	I've heard - ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable ministers, honored guests. Change the microphone. Go to Zivkovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers of Udovic, Sertic, Vujovic, Mr Mijailovic, said earlier that it was not possible to accept our amendments to be deleted on Articles 21, 22 and 23. I believe, Mr Vujovic, that you will accept our amendment is deleted on Article 24. Draft budget law for 2016. In Article 24. The draft budget law has five views, and I would like this amendment to this article of the law, which reads to be deleted, to be justified by an additional paragraph that I would read here. Dear gentlemen, I have prepared especially for the debate on this amendment. Non-transparent expenditure on commitments made to investors. In a description of the application for commitments made to investors worth 8.1 billion dinars, only the total weight of the funds is planned to pay the commitments to "Fiita", "ER Serbia" and other investors. Even in the budget's explanation, this appraisal is not decongregated, nor explained, Your Honor, Mr Vujovicu and I would now like to hear here, perhaps the MPs, the heads of Parliament, who are there, authorized representatives, if the bosses are not here, e.g. Mr. Babic or Mr. Atlagic, if he changes Mr. Babic in absentia, or other gentlemen to say what they now have against our argument on Article 24. Mr Vujovicu, did I do something wrong when I read this text that was placed in two sentences on this amendment to this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42238	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42239	Shortly before, the MP mentioned the Prime Minister's words in this assembly, read part of the text, or his speech, and tried to imitate it, but very badly. Now I will repeat what the prime minister said, too, in that same speech, so that you took a stenogram and read the full prime minister's speech you could also find information that "Fiat", "ER Serbia", "PKC" in Smedereva, "Trick Light", "Tiger Tigers", "Mitros", "Master Plastic", "Carina Fashion", "Straight New", NCR, "Inconect Teclas", "Maya Hachinson" will receive funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget this year. So, all according to state aid rules approved by the Commission for State Aid Control, therefore, all in accordance with EU rules and all the good assets we are trying to take over from them. Also, in order not to repeat now, you have a stenogram and figures for each of these companies, so I don't understand the question and motive at all to ask the transparency of this member in any way and in any context you're putting something we're hiding or we don't want to do something, and do we want more investors, are we going to give incentives, are we giving, are we going to give incentives next year? Yes, we will, because we want to hire our people in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42240	National MPs Miroslav Marinkovic, Branka Karavidic and Ninoslav Stojadinovic together submitted the 24th amendment. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42241	Thank you, Madam President. Article 24 speaks of the allocation of NIP funds. We are proposing to delete the first position of this member, because it is not clear who is in charge of proposing a special act of the Government, it is not clear by what act and what degree of obligation this act is and what the Government will do about redistributing funds for the implementation of the NIP projects. When I read the explanation given for the refusal of this amendment, I got the impression that the explanation was actually much better than the position of this law, and I'll read it. It says - the amendment is not accepted because the National Investment Plan's resources are determined by a decision on the timetable and use of the funds for the implementation of the National Investment Plan projects set out in the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia on the proposal of the competent ministry, the Ministry of Economy. So that clearly says which ministry is in charge, and I'm saying that I've gotten the impression that the explanation is better than this attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42242	Thank you. National MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ivan Karic, Dusan Petrovic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 24th Amendment was submitted by Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42243	Thank you, Madam President. Now, apart from this rather suspicious situation with investors that we have already talked about on several occasions, especially because the Fiscal Council itself has assessed that you are actually hiding in this budget how much you pay, allegedly, investors, now in Article 24, in its last position, as an investor, churches and religious communities appear. We believe that, if that is indeed the case, which is something that we have advocated in our pre-election programme, churches and religious communities must pay taxes on all those activities on which the tax is paid by all those who operate in Serbia. We do not think that they should pay taxes for religious activities, for what they are spiritual character activities, but every time any church and religious community appears as an investor, they must pay taxes for a job they do or which is entrusted to them. In any case, we think it would be an interesting source of income, a major source of income in the state budget. Instead, you've defined yourself as a path that we disagree with. You have opted for a reduction in wages, for a reduction in pensions to be paid by false investors, and for some investors, whom we believe should not have benefits, to be brought into an even more favourable position, and others to be exempt from taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42244	The 25th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Blagoje Bradic, Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic and Ninoslav Stojadinovic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42245	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic and the Honored Ministers and Mr Mijailovic, we have also submitted the amendment to Article 25. The draft budget law that we propose that all positions of Article 25, Mr Sertic, I am telling you now, be deleted. You were now talking, for example, about this group of members of the draft budget law and again focused on subsidies and subsidisation policy. Be careful, Mr Sertic, you subsidize "ER Serbia" and "Fiat" with 8.5 billion dinars and, Mr Sertic, I ask you – on what basis have you singled out 8.5 billion dinars for "ER Serbia" and "Fiat"? Where, Mr. Sertic, is the business plan "ER Serbia" to see exactly what you planned with this company, when will this company be able to operate without the money of the citizens of our Republic? It's part of the argument. The second part of the argument, Mr Sertic, to me even more importantly, is obvious also on the basis of members 25 and all other members of the draft budget law that the policy of subsidising investors and not only continues, Mr Sertic, but also strengthens the total amount of subsidies to boost investments in 2016 and amounts to 11.6 billion. Isn't that right, Mr. Sertice? This is 1.5 billion more than subsidies in 2014 and 2015. Mr. Sertić, I remember reading the stenograms, you have promoted an economic logic here – the economy in front of politics. What, then, is this budget rather than politics in front of the economy? Contrary to your principles, contrary to your views. I expect you will, by the end of the debate, withdraw support for this draft budget law, Mr Sertic and Mr Vujovic and Mr Babic and the other Members of the People's Parliament and Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, who deals with agriculture. We are preparing Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic for this agricultural land law and preparing for the sport law, so that Mr. Udovic will know. Books are being read, amendments are being prepared, thoroughly, gentlemen. It's not just the Budget Law that deserves our absolute attention, all the laws, but the Budget Law as the most important law in one year must ensure our participation in the debate on each amendment, on every member we submit. Thank you, gentlemen and Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42246	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zeljko Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42247	The honourable MPs obviously when someone has nothing to say about the budget, when they have no concrete item, then they keep telling the same story, and then we come to ask my colleague Vanju Udovic, and when your law on sports or co-worker Bogosavljevic will tell us now we prepare for the agricultural land law. When these laws come here to the Assembly, then we will all participate in the realization of them together. And I'm going to remind you, honourable MP, of the results of that same company you're talking about today that it's not doing well and that it's a bad company. Only in the period from 2012 to 2014, so by two business years, the number of passengers, the old JAT from 1.3 million a year, rose to 2.3 million. So, a million passengers more a year than before. From 32 destinations that used to be some destinations that flew once a week, the number of destinations rose to 40 every day. With 9.5,000 flights in 2012, we came on 15,000 flights in 2014. As a result of all this is the number of trained professional staff, therefore, the number of pilots that has been increased from two hundred to three hundred, including a number of women. So much for those bad results you're talking about so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42248	Thank you. Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42249	Member of the 27th President.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42250	We didn't come to article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42251	No, no, Article 27. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42252	Okay. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42253	I beg you, so you let Mr. Pavicevic really keep saying pointless things. I ask you, or take a break to concentrate, you persistently violate the Rules of Procedure by letting Mr. Pavicevic talk about amendments, more stories about sports amendments, about agricultural land, how they prepare them thoroughly, we will see these basic amendments – it is deleted. Is it hard intellectual work to write an amendment – it is deleted. You let him go and he's still talking. Don't do that, please, if we can start working on a normal course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42254	Your president was the chairman of the OSCE on behalf of Serbia. Imagine now if I were to introduce strict measures of what kind of shadow I would cast upon our country. I don't have the instruments to ban MPs from making amendments, they don't exist. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Do you have the right to tell him that there is no point in talking senselessly? ) It makes sense and pointless. It was at 10:15 this morning, at exactly 10:15 p.m., we discussed it, I remember. I agree to break the Rules of Procedure, but without me, it would be a fantastic piece of work. So we can agree once and for all to vote that I am constantly breaking the Rules of Procedure. If that's what you want, I'm ready for it, it's no problem at all. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42255	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished ministers and dear guests, this amendment in Article 25 for Item 1 for Item 2 for Item 3 and Article 4 is identical in the sense that there is no Minister for the National Investment Plan under the division in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore we believe that there should be a Minister of Finance. At the moment, I also consulted with Mr Vujovic, who is not currently in the O.R. I'm sorry, he came in, I didn't see. Why should this amendment not be adopted when, in a more precise way, defining at least this matter in the budget to be clearly concerned by a specific, resolutely in charge of the minister because there is no Minister for the National Investment Plan but the finance minister? It's one thing that not only defines this area more precisely, but cannot lead to any possible delusion that could happen in interpreting this law. For this reason, I believe that this amendment, as well as Mr Babic listens to me carefully, not so dangerous for the ruling majority representatives, but is of a technical nature and I believe that he could come across the support of well-intentioned MPs of the ruling majority and, of course, the Ministers of the Republic of Serbia and Mr Vujovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42256	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42257	Of course I listen very closely, not only today, but also the previous days, but I will ask again – where is the authorised representative of the DS? Why doesn't he listen to his messengers that way? Here, it's 20.20 hours, we'll probably work a few more hours and I'll be there by the end, I'll listen to every amendment, and I'll talk to the MPs and the government representatives, but I'll ask again - and where is the authorised representative of the DS? Is there something more important and more important for the MP today and these days than the 2016 budget? What topic is more important tonight? What is this more important place than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? That's the basic question - disrespect. Disrespect for the work, the functions, the calling of the MPs, what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia pay us for. They don't pay us to sit on some pasture in Vracar or at a concert or I don't know where, but here to lead the controversy, to come to a solution. Again, I ask where is the authorised representative of the DS? He's not in the O.R., he's not in the building. What's the more important job he's got? I'm sure that for many hours that are ahead of us, I will still ask this question as I asked last night, but definitely Mr. Sutanovac is not in the O.R. and is not in his workplace.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42258	The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senic, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42259	We have added Article 25 following Article 4 of Article 5, which reads – the Ministry responsible for the implementation of the National Investment Plan will submit once a year to the National Assembly a report on the implementation of the National Investment Plan projects. My colleagues and I just talked about it trying to remember how many years the National Investment Plan projects have been going on. They've been somewhere maybe since 2006, 2007. It takes quite a number of years, so since these are high-value projects, we suggest that the government be obliged to report to the National Assembly once a year just to spend money from the National Investment Plan and to implement projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42260	Members of the 26th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic SDS, ZZS, Green Serbia. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, the Honored Ministers and Mr Mijailovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted as the order of the amendment to Article 26. Proposal for a budget law that makes up three positions. Minister Sertic is here explaining to us why he cannot accept our argument on the amendments that we bear the following – that he does not understand how we can talk about the losses of "Er Serbia" when we have a million more passengers, when there are more destinations, when instead of 9,000 flights we have 15,000 flights, and only one thing Mr Sertic forgot to mention here, which is next. The loss of "Er Serbia" in the previous period is 67m euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42262	In this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42263	That's right, in the three positions of member 26. Draft budget law. Then that loss, Mr. Sertice, is upgraded by what? The policy against which we are, which is a subsidisation policy. That's the policy you're against formally, Mr. Sertic. But when we follow your actions, we see you conduct that policy against which you fight. I can't understand it here when we work in the National Assembly. As for MPs who believe that submitting amendments is not a meaningful thing, just to say, there is no minister or minister who has not adopted at least one of our amendments for these years and eight months, and Mr Udovic, and Mr Sertic, and Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, and Mr Vujovic, all here have adopted at least one amendment so far. So it's worth it, gentlemen, to fight for the good content of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42264	Thank you. It's a sertice, but it's a replica. You spoke to him by his name personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42265	Dear MPs, again false and again guessing on the subject of what it is, whether it is transparent, whether it is "Er Serbia" you are losing, whether it is making investments or not. Unlike the previous government, gentlemen dear and dear MPs, we invest in investments, unlike the previous government that invested most in dead people in our economy. That's why we got over 500 companies, which is why the first four billion euros is due to the state at this point and we can't charge. One of those losing companies was JAT's old company, which was taken over with $330m in 2013. A reprogramme and debt agreement has been made and the reconstruction of a complete company. All that you mention is part of the programme that is being implemented in 2014, 2015 and 2016. After that, there is no more support, no more subsidies, the company does what it does and all of what you're saying is defined by a contract that was published to the public and available to the public. I don't know what this story is... (Marko Atlagic, from the place: He does not read. Well, he doesn't. Normally not to read, so we have to repeat it every time. I don't have enough time to answer the same things every time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42266	National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 26a be added after article 26. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42267	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are asking this amendment to include the funds needed for the implementation of the programme of return of exiled Bosniaks from the Municipality of Priboj in the 2016 budget. In order to implement this project, it is necessary to allocate the resources financed by the Office for Sustainable Development to produce the project documentation. The programme provides for the following activities: the construction of a road network of 50 km long, construction and reconstruction of residential and auxiliary facilities, construction of trafo stations and power grids, construction of a water supply network and the creation of conditions for the sustainable survival of returnees. The main objective of the programme is to create conditions for the sustainable return and survival of refugees, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in such a way as to achieve basic human rights and freedoms of the population, and then allow for their protection and improvement. The expected results of this programme are: the creation of preconditions for the sustainable return of refugees and displaced Bosniaks from the Municipality of Priboj between 1991 and 1999, the restored return families of the Municipality of Priboj are socially and economically integrated, then reducing underdevelopment, reducing poverty and encouraging employment and helping train for business. In this way, injustice would be rectified against residents from the nearby villages of Priboj Municipality, who during the 1990s because of fears, threats or objective threats to life moved out of their homes. With a responsible approach to all its citizens, the Republic of Serbia would demonstrate its sincere commitment to human and European values, and above all peace and tolerance. Therefore, the adoption of this amendment would allow for full implementation, i.e. finalising the implementation of the programme for the return and survival of refugees and displaced Bosniaks from the Priboj Municipality during the 1990s. I note, this programme has already been adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia and is scheduled to be implemented definitively with 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42268	Thank you. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs from Boris Tadic, SDS, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42269	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, now MP Aleksandar Markovic suggests that I should give up the interpretation of the amendments, Mr Babic, his head of the parliamentary group, told me earlier that it would be most appropriate to discuss all night. Of course we should discuss the draft budget law all night, gentlemen. I see Mr. Sertic is now interested in the debate, too, in dialogue. Mr. Sertic, let's discuss this most important bill in a year. Here's what we are, for example. offered as an explanation, among other things for Article 27. Draft budget law. Here, Mr. Sertice, you tell me if you agree. We argue that this proposed 2016 budget does not reflect the moment in which the Republic of Serbia's economy and society are located and is based on macroeconomic assumptions that are questionable. Mr. Sertic, I'd be terribly interested in you telling me if you agree with what I just said. And, Mr. Sertich, you didn't answer the part where I explained the previous amendment. The economy ahead of politics or politics in front of the economy? Now we're going back to that. Subsidies, their increase, Mr. Sertic, is there any dilemma about it, always means politics is ahead of the economy. That means we don't have conditions for a good economic environment. That means we can't expect economic growth. That means, gentlemen, that there are fewer chances for new jobs. As soon as someone comes forward to suggest such an economic logic, I say bravo! But as soon as we see in action that it is the opposite of what is being promoted, we must warn, criticize, warn and seek answers to questions, Mr Sertic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42270	Thank you. The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42271	Replica, of course, Madam President. Yes, I'm in favour of dialogue, I'm in favour of facing attitudes, I'm in favour of finding a solution, and I'm very often and very happy to do it, but I don't have anyone tonight, because there's no authorised representative of the DS. I'd be happy to do it as long as it takes, but there's no authorised representative of the DS. Don't do your job, he wasn't last night either. He does not do his job, this is the attitude towards both public finances and the budget and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, I respect everything that's been done in the National Assembly, but it takes two for dialogue. At this point, but not only at this moment, but at every moment in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is both the SNS for dialogue and for compromise and for solution, but there is no mandated representative of the DS. I don't know what to do. So how do we conduct a dialogue? Then it's a monologue. Then it's already bad. That's why I'm asking, really where is the authorised representative of the DS? I'm so eager to have a dialogue tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42272	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Bozovicu, on what basis are you answering? (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42273	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising several members of the Rules of Procedure, 107, 108 and 109, especially in that part of 109 concerning the facts and assessments relating to the private life of others, in this case, Mr Dragan Sutanov. I'd like to know, Mr. Chairman, how and on what basis Mr. Babic knows that Mr. Sutanovac is not in the National Assembly... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42274	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. If you continue, I'll have to give a third warning, and you know what that means. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: I don't understand, because I reported to the Rules of Procedure. You can't talk and use the Rules of Procedure as a replica, you know that very well. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: For what? ) I don’t want to convince you, I tell you, and please don’t let me strictly apply the Rules of Procedure to give you a third warning. You know what that means. (Jovan Markovic throws out of place. Mr. Markovic, you've got a warning for a throw-off. You've got a pitch notice. So you keep throwing all day. You keep throwing away. This is how I have to establish order in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. Now, for every violation of the Rules of Procedure, I will give a warning. At least we'll have children with special needs budget for their needs. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42275	Article 106, Mr. Chairman. Given that you have not been listening for hours to what SNS MPs say, here, I am keenly interested in you explaining to me on what basis Mr Babic had just discussed, whether it was for the amendment, whether it was a replica and on what basis you do not interrupt him, and you are giving me a warning about what he was talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42276	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I am not finished yet. ) Mr Markovic, Article 109: “The warning is made to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly President, who speaks before he has asked and received the word, who, despite the warning of the National Assembly president, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda, if he interrupts the speaker in the presentation or throws, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise endangers freedom of speech. ” “ Have you been throwing yourself out of place, Mr. Markovic? (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Who was I interrupting? I'm asking you if you've seen the citizens of Serbia, and now you're throwing it away. Mr. Markovic, I give you a second warning. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: For what? Mr. Markovic, I'll have to give you a third warning, if you continue. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Why are you doing this? Because I have no choice but to establish order in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. I'm asking you not to do that. Please sit down and allow the discussion to continue on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2016. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42277	The Honorable Chairman, the 27th member I advertised an hour ago. So, with this last warning, you gave six warnings to the opposition MPs, although MPs of the ruling coalition threw, insulted, used harder words than MPs of the opposition. You have not given them any warning. The ministers fought with you, you interrupted them and they interrupted you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42278	Mr. Vesenovic, I have not told any MP of the opposition about the speech, because of the words he said in the National Assembly, except for Mr. Bozovic, who said to the finance minister: "You are lying! “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I didn't say that. ) All warnings were made for breach of the order in the O.R., for being thrown out of place, because of the inability to establish work in the discussion. So, all the warnings, I can confirm that with stenographic notes. So none of them are due to a speech given in the National Assembly. I will have to continue with the warnings, as long as we are not able to let the MPs speak on the subject. Thank you. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go. The assembly will declare itself on Voting Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42279	You have to ask us that, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42280	I'll ask you from now on, every time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42281	Well, not from now on, but you're in favour of applying the Rules of Procedure, you're not applying it. I'd like to remind you, in accordance with Article 101, you said earlier that you had no other way of holding order at the session than to give notice to the MPs, but you have another way, Mr. Becic. Article 101 says that the National Assembly President, the vice president, in our case, can interrupt the session of the National Assembly and that when he cannot otherwise maintain order, he can set a break in the work of the Assembly and explain it to us. So it is not true that the only thing at your disposal is the assembly's interruption. You can do very nicely, if you feel you can't handle what the MPs are saying, to set a break. We've been working for days.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42282	I thank you, Miss Jerkov. I can deal with speakers who speak, and I can't deal with MPs who earn from the post and interfere with the work and interfere with the speaker who is speaking at the moment. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? Yeah. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42283	Mr. Chairman, Article 103 in the first position says that the MP has the right to orally point to the violation and conduct of the president of the National Assembly. If you don't give me that right and opportunity for days, if you do or turn your head, as well as your colleagues, to what I mean, then there's nothing left for me but to ask you out of place – and how did Mr. Babic say about the amendment? If it's in the same level or weight with the words Mr. Babic has been saying here for days and many others that we are thieves and liars, and you are not responding, then how do you have the right to silence the MPs of the opposition in such a way? How long do you think you're doing that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42284	Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? Yeah. I thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I want you to give me an answer. ( ) Do you want the Assembly to declare your request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Thank you. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42285	Mr. Chairman, both you and I and the Serbian public and colleagues and colleagues in this hall know that I have received word by line on Mr. Pavicevic's exposure, but someone who has insufficient attention to follow this discussion, blinded by some political hatred, of course won't hear what's going on. I'll ask you, Mr. Chairman, to call some things real names after all. There's always something running around here towards the opposition, towards the opposition. And where do you see the opposition here? I see here only representatives of the Boyan Pajtic regime, which governments today in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42286	I thank you, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42287	How can someone who rules in Vojvodina call himself the opposition? Please use correct expressions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42288	I thank you, Mr. Granny. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. The 28th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, magistrate Dr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karić, Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42289	Mr. Becic, I see the MPs have reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42290	Please, do you want to speak, Mr. Pavicevic? Would you like to speak, Mr. Pavicevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42291	Well, I can't make it clear now that Mrs. Jerkov has reported to the Rules of Procedure. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 28th Amendment. Here you go, Miss Jerkov. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) Not according to the Rules of Procedure, according to the amendment. Ms. Jerkov, the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to the 28th Amendment. Do you want to follow the amendment? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: I reported to the Rules of Procedure before the amendment. ) Please follow the Rules of Procedure before the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42292	Thank you. It's about Article 103. First of all, Mr Babic did not say which member of the Rules of Procedure, which is his obligation. But another thing that made me come forward before that -- you never, Mr. Becic, master that Article 103. You are also obliged to give an explanation which makes you think there is no injury or to remove the injury, if you consider it done, and then ask us if we are satisfied. Now you've finally mastered this part...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42293	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. Miss Jerkov, I don't think the injury was done. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? Thank you. I don't think it's done, according to the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. Would you like a word by your amendment, which has just been read? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42294	Can I talk like Mr. Babic about the amendment or like we have to talk about?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42295	I don't care about your home education or whether you want to follow the amendment. You're talking about how you think you're talking, and I'll interrupt you if you don't talk about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42296	I think it's totally amazing that you're talking about any home education.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42297	That's what the citizens of Serbia are judging.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42298	I can't hear what you're saying because you're breaking my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42299	I'm asking you to speak, or I'm going to have to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42300	Although I think you can see that you only know how to do it. So I won't even talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42301	Thank you. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Becic, you've now had a kind of clash with the opposition's MPs, and now that ten SNS MPs have jumped here, gentlemen of honor, you've started yelling at me, gentlemen of honor, Mr. Becic, you haven't responded.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42303	Mr. Pavicevic, I beg you, you can't all vote. Mrs. Comic tells me something I can't hear. Mrs. Comić, if you like, approach the speaker, approach the chair, because I cannot hear what you're saying. Mr. Pavicevic, do you want to talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42304	I do, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42305	I'm asking you not to use it as a replica, but according to the amendment, you're entitled to two minutes. You're wasting your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42306	It's been a while, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42307	I'll count on the time you've spent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President and Chairman of today's session, Mr Bečić, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, good evening, the Honored Minister and Mr Mijailovic, we MPs of the New Party, as is the order of the amendment, which reads as follows: "delegate" to Article 29. Draft budget law. This is one of the 78 amendments that reads: "is deleted" on the draft budget law. Here, to hear the gentlemen who have objections to the fact that we MPs are submitting amendments, that, when one MP or more wants us to point out to other MPs, and especially to ministers or to the Prime Minister that one bill is so bad that it is necessary to try to be whole-out, that then we submit the amendments "delegate" to all the members of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42309	Do you want to talk about the amendment you submitted?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42310	Here, therefore, this member of Bill 29 points to anti-reformal orientation, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42311	Time's up. Mr. Granny, on what grounds? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. On whose display? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: SNS is mentioned, the jumping of SNS MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42312	Mr. Chairman, if anyone jumps, if anyone waves, if anyone points a finger, it's the previous speaker. If a real one is missing in the National Assembly, according to Honorable counterpart Risticevic, it is a previous speaker, and I understand that we are here for almost 11 hours, that we will certainly, five, six hours minimum, still be in this room, and that some people are tired of seeing things, but that they are so pictured that SNS MPs are jumping, it is a demeaning of both the Assembly and the SNS Parliamentary Group. Those messengers who are not used to applause, and even intervened from the place, say, "What is this?" Why is he applauding? I understand them. You know, they're only used to whistles. Only to disdain, only to the people on the street who meet them, and ask what you did, qualify them with different names. And then simply when they hear applause, it's completely foreign to them, I'll ask you, Mr. Chairman, to lead this session in a peaceful and dignified manner. The Serbian People's Party, my colleagues and colleagues will be there until the end, and it is my right to ask 15 seconds ago where is the authorised representative of the DS, why is he not in the room and that here, because they are not ready or able and do not know what an apology means, I will apologize to the citizens of Serbia for why Dragan Sutanovac is not in the workplace, he is not in the hall. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42313	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, I have also submitted this amendment to some degree of transparency when it comes to funds. The investment law was also as controversial to us as we mentioned several times today, because it does not refer to the part concerning public calls and some kind of transparency when it comes to subsidies, when it comes to the funds provided for in this budget, and of course to the citizens of Serbia above all. So, our proposal is for the State's Chief Prosecutors to be competent, not the President of the State's Council of Prosecutors when it comes to the transfer of funds for the simple reason that there is no number of times when this budget is concerned that when money is in the midst of no control and no public and no transparency exists. Turns out those who control the money don't want to share the responsibility absolutely in any way. In this way, we think something more transparent should be done. It's always good for more people to be involved, more public, more officials, not always just one person, not just one man. We believe, for this reason, that in many places it is the Budget Law that is not transparent until the end, especially in that part that was spoken by the ministers, including the Prime Minister himself, that some things are hidden on the receiving side because they are not needed at this point. For something hiding in the budget, someone can one day answer, but in this situation that someone is doing their job more transparently, we think it's important that this amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42314	Thank you. Members of the 30th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice-President of the National Assembly and Chairman of today's session, Mr. Bečić, Honored Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Honored Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Honored Mr. Mijailovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted an amendment to Article 30. Proposal for a Budget Law and offered an argument above all concerning Article 1 and Article 7. Draft budget law. I have two notes here as an additional kind of argument. Of course, since he is present here, Minister Sertic, first of all through two questions. Since we have also noticed a member of the 30th but not only this member of the government's anti-reform direction on the draft budget law, we have noticed that there is no credible plan for firing party armies in the public sector, for example. I ask you, Minister Sertić, when you put all the successes of this government here together and then use two minutes to raise yourself that it was this, that we succeeded in this, why you didn't make a plan for firing party armies in the public sector. That's one question. The second question regarding the 2nd and 3rd positions... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42316	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Well, it's not time? It is, as soon as you don't talk about the amendment, you have to run out of time. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: Let's prove to me that I am not talking about the amendment? Prove to me how you speak. Come on, please, say it. Everyone in the O.R. doesn't mind that what you're saying has anything to do with the amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Who detests? Come on, show me. Here we go, everybody in the O.R. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Who? Can you show me? Don't be, Professor. I respect you very much, don't be, you can be very funny, but don't, you have a manners not to talk about the amendment all day. I've proven it many times. Please, if you want to talk about the amendments, you have my full attention, if you don't want to, I can't let the Rules of Procedure be broken. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: All right, I'm just asking you to finish. I beg you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42317	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, you know this amendment as explained by the previous speaker, we should never accept it, then we would be forced to fire all DS members who have received a job in the previous period. So we'd be in one very awkward situation, to be accused, to have some bad intentions towards DS, to the soul what little is left, because everyone's gone somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42318	Thank you. Replica, Minister Zeljko Sertic for mentioning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42319	I will honor the MPs on a small case by the Ministry of Economy to give you information on how this government is saving, and how this budget is drawn up. So, for the costs of current business, which means equipment, of technique, of procurement, of material resources, concluded with contracts, which are signed and which is just now mentioned by the MP, who spoke. Only the Ministry of Economy has reduced its budget by 25.17% compared to the previous year. So, by a quarter of last year's total budget, we cut by 5.6% this year. That's how this government works, and that's how this budget is drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42320	Thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac and MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and the chairman of tonight's session, Mr. Bečić, the distinguished guests and guests of the Ministry, I will say only one sentence as part of the amendment's argument to Article 31, and also for the conduct of the National Assembly session – "Mayo, come back". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42322	Thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42323	Thank you. The reason for the submission of this amendment relating to the general non-purpose transfer is that the error made when drawing up the 2014 and 2015 budget has been repeated and has not been corrected in this draft budget. Namely, criteria for the assignment and schedule of general non-purpose transfers are prescribed by the law on the financing of local self-government, and for some 70 local self-government without any criteria based on this law, a drastic reduction of general non-intentional transfers has been carried out. The territory area of local self-government, the number of residents, the number of schools, the number of primary schools, the number of kindergartens and all other criteria prescribed are not reduced, but transfers have been reduced and not for all local self-governments, but for some 70 self-government leading to discrimination against local self-government, and some local self-governments are applied, and some not. How pointless that is, I'll show you a practical example. For Pancevo, a city that has more than 120,000 inhabitants, the amount of general non-purpose transfers amounts to 84 million, and for Crno Trava, the municipality that has about 1,600 inhabitants is larger and amounts to 89 million, that I am not talking about Leskovec, which is comparable to Pancheva, per area and population, etc., where the amount of the transfer is estimated to be 896 million. I think this significantly violates equality, except that the Law on the financing of local self-government and in this, as in the previous two years, is being discriminated against by local self-government, without clear criteria, and I urge you to, if you consider the Law on the financing of local self-government not good...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42324	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42325	Can I just finish one sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42326	Well, there you go, half a minute more talking, and I'm trying to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42327	It's not good for you when we stick to the subject, or when we don't stick to the subject. I don't know if we should sit here anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42328	Mrs. Martinovic, you have the right to speak for two minutes. I let you go for two and a half minutes and you get angry, and I don't know what else to do to you. (Vesna Martinovic, from the place: Don't do anything to me. You're interrupting me in the middle of a sentence. You're wasting your time with me now, keep moving. Because I'm being warned it's been half a minute longer and I'm not interrupting. So when I'm toleranced, it's no good. When I'm not tolerated, I really don't know how to please you. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 31st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42329	Mrs. Martinovic was already talking about the criteria, and I was just about to show by my amendment the very arguments we had just heard. My amendment goes in this direction to increase the city of Nis by 200 million and I think it's a lot of reasons, because that's exactly the question of the criteria, and we heard from the minister, resolutely in charge of local self-government, which at the moment is not there, that a law is being prepared that will really lead local self-government and cities into a very insecure situation. The arguments are next, the City of Nis is currently filling its budget with about 50%, and it's writing its own two billion loan as its own income. It's a similar situation in Kragujevac and Užica, and I think it's cities that have really big problems maintaining their basic functions. I think it is a very visible process of centralisation in a set of laws that has been passed in the last three or four years, which constantly reduces the incomes of local self-government, and that local self-governments impose some new powers. It is simply not possible, not realistic, so we often hear from the resolution ministers, here yesterday that 80% of the president of the municipalities and mayors do not do their jobs effectively and are not able to take the powers that belong at the moment. I think it's very important to say, and that's also a question for the finance minister. That's a really serious question. We boast of the budget, reducing deficits in the republican budget, but I'm interested in whether we have the data and it's important that we get information here in the Assembly about a consolidated report on all the budgets of local self-government and cities. So these budgets are in huge losses in major deficits, not to mention the state of public utility systems at local level, because this will give the right picture of the current financial situation throughout Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42330	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42331	As you have already noticed and several times mentioned today, before 3 December, a new draft law on the financing of local self-government is being put in place on the Ministry's website, which envisions a fundamental reform of the system. Before we go into the discussion, I'm already hearing reactions from some municipalities, and I'm not sure they've even read it at all, and especially that they've engaged in understanding that law. That law has good principles, and maybe it needs to be fixed. I invite you all to join that law. It is our proposal to adopt a member of 31 non-purpose transfers this year in the same list as last year, until we prepare a new law, which will give us a more reliable basis to dimension these transfers. These transfers are the result of changes to the law from a few years ago, and we all know that these transfers are not well measured. With the new law, we want to unite certain types of instruments, reward the good behaviour of municipalities in cutting off the collection of our own incomes, primarily on real estate, or property that are the main sources. We want to introduce a certain degree of discipline and order into some special instruments, such as companies, etc. And to bring it into line with the law on fees, so that we have one clear transparent policy, a more generous, predictable source of income for all municipalities and a better environment for all investors. Here we have taken into account the results of the analyses of our own, individual organisations, including the NAD analysis of fees, transfer analysis etc. All of what you said about the imbalances in transfers, we've figured out the empirically multiple times and there's an incredible range over the head of the population and relative to the needs. The new system should respect both needs and level of development, but also reward tax efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42332	Thank you. Mr Jovan Markovic submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42333	Respected citizens of Serbia, respected citizens of Užica, 228 million were planned in the transfer of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the city of Užic for 2016. The case works, for the same position, for the town of Leskovac, 896 million are planned. And it's not enough, the citizens of Užica, that for three years, as a reward for the famous transfer of power we've lost to the university, we've lost the wastewater plant, which is the creators of this composition, as Mr Babic is allowed to attend gatherings like the other night at the Uzic Theatre, when you've been supporting the slides of coups, etc., but now they're also denying what belongs to you. We are coming into a situation where here, in Parliament, we cannot say what a shame it is and why the citizens of Uzica should be punished for accepting that composing policy that I was talking about. For accepting that your electoral will collapses and that creators like Mr. Babic and the others are today exulting. Today we cannot talk in Parliament about your needs. Today when we have only two minutes of time that it is not good to for three years all that the needs of the citizens of Užica are trampled out, not to hear the voice. We're getting into a situation where I don't have an explanation for why there hasn't been an amendment to get 100 million for agriculture, 50 million for social policy...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42334	Time. Thank you, Mr. Markovic. You don't understand when two minutes are up, Mr. Markovic? I don't know why you... (Jovan Markovic, from the place: What don't I understand? I don't understand. So I see you're looking at me strangely why I had to warn you, so you've run out of two minutes. You have the right to speak for two minutes. I apologize to the MPs for not warning Markovic who did not speak on the subject. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42335	What I want to say and talk about, but about the amendment, and to address the citizens of Leskovec, who are watching us right now and watching, that DS, whose authorised representative of the parliamentary group is still out of the hall, is still who knows where, wanted this amendment to cut the transfer funds for the town of Leskovac and move somewhere else. So much for the relationship of DS to Leskovec, but also for many other local self-governments. Somehow, just before, when I heard the tirad of nothing, I remembered the election campaign in 2014, when, together with Mr. Selaković, Minister of Justice in the Government of Aleksandra Vukic, I was both in Užic and in Chatetina and Nova Varoša. And I know that at the center of Užica there was a large number of people waiting for us at the center of Užica. We talked, we agreed... (Gordana Comić, from Place: Theme. ) This is a replica for those who earn, and please remind Mrs. Komic, who knows the Rules of Procedure well, just doesn't apply it, not to throw it away and not to say "theme", because this is a replica. And that when we were on our way to Châtini, we met a small group where there was a previous speaker and there were more balloons than people and there were more blue balloons, the yellow ones were a little less, and at least there were people. So much for this support, the phenomenal support that the previous speaker has with the citizens, and especially for the DS, whose representative is authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42336	Time. Thank you, Mr. Granny. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. No, no, no, (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I am right. No, no, no, Does Mr. Milisavljevic want a word? (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Why am I not entitled? ) Because not mentioning Užica is enough, because the amendment includes Užice. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Just spoke the previous speaker...) That's not enough, Mr. Markovic, you know very well, but it's not worth convincing with you. On Article 31 of the amendment, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. I repeat, does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 32nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 33rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Balša Bozovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42337	Dear People's MPs, honourable ministers, according to our proposal, Article 33 is deleted, and here is Mr Vujovic, if you have any more patience, this seems to me, my last amendment, and I would like you to accompany him to the end. In accordance with the provisions of Article 28. The law on the budgetary system, the budget, consists of general and special work. The general part of the budget includes, among other things, an assessment of the new debt of the Republic of Serbia during the financial year and an estimate of the total amount of new guarantees from the Republic of Serbia during the financial year. So the definition of the total amount of new borrowing and guarantees in part three, the implementation of the budget, is contrary to the Budgetary System Law, although it is totally acceptable and I fully agree with you that this matter concerning the accident and urgency of borrowing by the Government on a proposal from the Finance Minister is necessary, I just think that it should be formulated differently. I don't think it's a good idea for us to pass laws that are in collegiate with other laws. That's the point, and if you think it's necessary, I don't think it would be a bad idea to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42338	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42339	I can't disagree with your last sentence, but I don't see what law it's in collegiate with since the government would, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, address the Assembly and ask for permission to be in charge. I don't see what law that's in college with. (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: the general part and the last part. No, this is just part of the execution, this is part three. This is the part about the execution in which it is said – if... (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Ali is in conflict with the Law on the Budget System. No, look at it this way, it's totally true. It says there in the article what the limit of borrowing is. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Article 28.) No, that's where the amendment should be, provided it's that, but since we broke it long ago, we'll probably have to change it. I agree with that, but we have long gone beyond that zone, so I accept the essence, but in any case Parliament can then, when it is filed, God forbid this happens, this is in case of another disaster of some natural ones, etc., we would have addressed parliament, then parliament would decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42340	Thank you. The 34th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice-President Mr Becic, the Honorable Ministers of Udovic, Ilic, Sertic, Vujovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 34. Draft budget law. We enter and slowly on the fifth day of this budget marathon and I think it is appropriate that the citizens of our Republic listen slowly to the parts of these 1300 pages of the draft budget law. Here's what it says in article 34, and I hope Minister Sertic won't tell me it's not exactly what it says in Article 34. - If a mandatory social security organisation is made in 2016, on the basis of a contribution to compulsory social security, they will be made in smaller amounts than the amounts set out in their 2016 financial plans, the Management Boards will adjust the expenditures and expenditures to the reduced revenues, except for social security expenditure; Minister Sertić. We have tied this member to one key word of five through which we define the entire draft budget law, and Article 34, and that is the uncreditability of the promoter. So, the promoter is uncreditable to be able to state what is formally announced policy when it works, Mr Sertic, contrary to what has been officially announced to be action. I'm taking you back to philosophy. Politics ahead of the economy or economies ahead of politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42342	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42343	You don't know that, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42344	The 35th amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here you can see that SNS MPs are now supporting, Mr. Becic, this announcement. Dear Mr. Becic, Mr. Minister, Sertic, Vujovic, Ilic and Udovic, I hope you too consider it appropriate to answer our questions. This article 35 is something more extensive than the members of 34 gentlemen and Mr. Babic. In Article 35, we have one, two, three, four, five views and I will not be able to read all the views so that our citizens can hear it unless they have read it, but I will take this opportunity to remind you, Minister Sertić, that in addition to those criteria of credibility that you failed to meet when you wrote members of this draft budget law, including Article 35, you did not meet the criteria of transparency. I was very specific about our budget marathon here, we're going in, I repeat again in the fifth day, which are the points, which are the lines through which we look at this intransparency. Arbitrarity, Mr. Sertic, to a large extent irresponsible, I have cited more examples here, and the key thing is now a formal abandonment of reform, Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42346	National MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Dr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic together. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42347	Dear Prime Minister, members of the Government, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, we have submitted to Article 35 an amendment that is not "expected", but as follows – units of local authorities in 2016 can plan the total funds needed to pay the salaries of employees financed from the local government's budget, so that the mass of funds for payment of salaries are planned by the account of the base of salaries that were in force prior to the entry into force of the Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent income from public funds users, the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, number 116/14 from 2014, an increase of 3% for employees in social protection institutions, 4% for employees in pre-school institutions and 2% for other employees. In response and an explanation of why this amendment is rejected, and I would like that one line, very often we get answers for our amendments, as colleagues say delete, it means nothing, it refuses, so as the amendment that brought this one or filed that one. So it would be good if, if we wanted a meaningful discussion, that both of them were to give an explanation, but when we say that it was deleted, then it would also give an explanation why. In this way, we would practically give the units of local self-government, which have the opportunity to plan their budget properly. Not all local self-governments are in the same situation. They don't have all the same income and don't do the same. So, we have in this way centralized the movement of financial resources exclusively towards the Republic, but the Republic does not give the same amount of funds to units of local self-government or at least does not reward or provide for those who work anymore and who have the opportunity to create more. I want to point out one more time. I come from a local self-government called the Svilian municipality, and it's good if you know what that municipality is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42348	Thank you. Minister Dusan Vujovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42349	Although I'm trying to understand your good intentions in all of this, this would have violated the laws that were passed 14 months ago and would have violated the base and obligation that we have accepted on ourselves that the total reduction of the salary fund refers to so-called. The general government deficits, including all local levels of government and AP Vojvodina and the Serbian Ways and the Serbian Corridors, etc. Therefore, as this enters into general fiscal consolidation, you cannot accept the essence of your amendment, which is that the proposed rates of increases are applied on the basis that were in force before the entry into force of these laws. Although it is noble of you, it is not consistent with fiscal consolidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42350	Thank you. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted the amendment to Article 35. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister to plead on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42351	Amendment accepted. So instead of “necessary, ” they say,“ they can be. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42352	Thank you. I find that the Prime Minister of Finance's representative has accepted the amendment and that this amendment becomes an integral part of the bill's proposal. (Marco Djurisic, from the post: Can I follow this amendment? You can, you'll get the word. Please, according to the Committee's amendment, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42353	Thank you. This is very important to just get over it. The word "necessary" means they should plan to pay for these increases, it says – they can. So you don't have to pay the raises. I ask you, Minister, will there be an increase in pension by 1.25% from January 1st? That's all I'd like to hear, because this is what it says. After that, the Budgetary System Act says the same thing – it can. So will it certainly be increased since 1 January 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42354	Thank you. The 35th Amendment was filed by Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 36th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and also the People's Parliament to Markovic, who you are yelling at, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Becic, the honourable ministers, I hope this exhibit, the explanation of my amendment to Article 36 will end without Mr Becic shutting down my microphone. In Article 36, we have three positions and we suggest that all three bets be deleted. Dear gentlemen, instead of voting for this budget, we think it would be best for the National Assembly to vote for the draft budget law debate, Mr. Becic, not to trust the government. I think that should be the outcome of our discussions and amendments to this draft budget law. You know, it's a practice, and in our rules it says that if one government doesn't pass this budget... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42356	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, who is entitled to replication for mentioning the name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42357	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in just one sentence, since it really doesn't make any sense to get into the essence of what the Proposer of this amendment put forward, I see that he deeply believes in that saying that many times the repeated untruth becomes true. If we apply analogically to today's situation that 78 repeated untruths, since 78 amendments and suggested, I want to tell him that after 78 empty stories, they won't become arguments. That won't change the essence. So 78 times you've repeated an empty story and you've made no argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42358	Thank you. Mr Dejan Radenkovic, by amendment, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42359	Thank you, Vice President. I believe that this amendment, like all the other amendments that say - is deleted, should be rejected. Of course, he'll say no, because it's pointless to accept something like this. Now I'm going to do one parallel why the proposaler's intention is to delete something like this. This is about realising projects from programmes financed from sources of funding, i.e. from receiving from foreign borrowings. We have examples when the gentleman, president of a new party, I've said it before, the New Party... This is Zoran Zivkovic, a citizen of Nisa, a Serbian citizen who was Prime Minister and who received a huge sum during that period, after several hundred million euros in grant aid, and how does that work? Here you have arranged who will have the resources, which is the procedure, and when he was headed by the government, it was simply, as the most co-ordination body in the area of planning and using foreign aid, the Government of the Republic of Serbia set up a Commission for Co-ordination of Humanitarian and Development Assistance. The head of the commission was the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. You can imagine how much power that has taken from one man...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42360	Mr. Radenkovic, what does this have to do with the amendment, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42361	There is. Read the amendment to Article 36. They're asking to be erased, and I'm making a parallel as it used to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42362	You can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42363	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42364	You can't keep talking like that. As I do not allow Mr Pavicevic, I cannot allow you either.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42365	I'm making a parallel, it's "expunging"...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42366	Members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, submitting this amendment to the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic, had in mind the fact that large funds are coming from foreign borrowings and we want the spending of these funds to be made even more transparent. Of course, here in the law we absolutely support these three positions, which means that direct beneficiaries of the budget are obliged to submit monthly reports to the Ministry, first of all, to the Ministry, so that the citizens of Serbia know where these funds are going, what projects have been done and how they have been spent. Our amendment says that the government reports at least once a year to the National Assembly on the implementation of projects and programmes originally funded by 11 foreign borrowings. The explanation we received for not accepting this amendment, I must be honest, given the fact and knowing that Minister Vujovic is pragmatic and that he is fighting for the transparency of spending money, I see no reason to reject this. I don't see what would bother you, Minister Vujovic, to inform the Assembly once a year. Let's make it a day when the budget is adopted for next year. I hope so, and I believe that you will still accept this amendment if you want the funds taken out of foreign debt to be spent in a transparent manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42368	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanovic. Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42369	Distrusting the government instead of voting for the draft budget law. This is our proposal in the amendment to Article 37. Proposal for a Budget Law, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Becic and the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr Mijailovic. I think that both today and yesterday and Tuesday, when we started the budget session, we presented enough arguments here for each individual member of the draft budget law, counting, Mr. Mijailovic, and Article 37, that it was enough for every MP, including Mr. Socialist here, Mr. Progressives and Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to convince that this is a bad draft of the budget law. Our philosophy is next – and the temporary funding is better than the very bad budget law, because temporary funding, respected gentlemen, leaves for a while, and that time that we were suspended for the usual debate on the draft budget law, to fix some things. The budget system law stipulates that we here have a draft budget law on November 1st. We had him on December 4th. Temporary funding, instead of bad law, means having the time we normally have the right to improve the draft budget law. Since the government, gentlemen, is not interested in having a good draft budget law, I think we should use the debate on the draft budget law, not only to vote here on amendments against, but to voice mistrust with the bad government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42370	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42371	I assume that colleagues from the Socialist Party of Serbia will also report, but as far as the Serbian Progressive Party is concerned, you have not convinced us and of course this is a great proposal for a 2016 budget law for a much more perspective, better, more diligent, more valuable year 2016. On the other hand, what the amendment promoter just said is a section of our policies. What do we want? To adopt the budget of the Republic of Serbia, to know how the money of Serbian citizens is spent, how it is collected, how it is spent, transparently, to turn on all possible reflectors and the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank and other international financial institutions and domestic independent institutions and bodies. What does the Amendment Proposer want when he says "better" is temporary funding? They want to turn off the lights of the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. When the lights go out, it's stuck in your pockets. That's when the rich people who have those resources get rich. No, sir, we want to light the reflectors, we want in a public and transparent way to treat the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Another thing the amendment promoter doesn't know, because it's more about theatre, but essentially, that's that when it's temporary financing, investment projects stop, you don't have the right to invest. You want this amendment and such a claim for temporary funding to stop life in Serbia. After all, you said you were ill at the means of subsidisation, and please explain to me how many liters of wine was produced in the winery for 500 000 euros, how many subsidies were there, and how much was used by Mr. Zivkovic on the budget? How many liters of wine came out of that famous winery?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42372	Mr Dejan Radenkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42373	Thank you, Vice President. This is really embarrassing. I cannot believe you're allowing MP Vladimir Pavicevic to call us like this and call for temporary funding. I don't know if there's anything worse than what he's calling for. We are all here to introduce this country into stable waters of public finances, to seduce order, to reduce expenditure, to increase revenues, and Mr Pavicevic calls for temporary financing. It's an invitation, as if you've put a board on all investors, running away from Serbia, they can't even adopt a budget. That's not gonna happen, Mr. Pavicevic. No, you're free of it. Perhaps you picked up something from your fellow MP Zoran Zivkovic when he urged the citizens of Nis not to pay bills for electricity, so when it went up, he started hiding in corners from the Nis citizens, because he had nothing to say afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42374	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. Mr. Pavicevic, you have the right to replication for mentioning your name and name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42375	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Bečiću, the Honorable Ministers Sertic, Ilic, Vujovic, the Honorable Mr. Mijailovic, my proposal and thinking were next, respected gentlemen, it is also better to enter into temporary financing than to declare here a very bad draft of the 2016 budget law. The draft budget law that rests on injustices, gentlemen, well, we've been convincing here in these four days. We're going in on the fifth day. We have proved that what the draft Budget Law says is not credible, gentlemen, that what it says in the 2016 Budget Law proposal is not transparent, that this content of this 2016 Budget Law is abundant in arbitration, respected gentlemen, hiding positions there, hiring party armies, giving subsidies to come by some investor instead of focusing on a functioning market economy, respected gentlemen. And above all, one of the key characteristics, the key word to which we can describe this draft budget law is irresponsibility. And when, for one draft budget law, we do not bind credibility, non-transparency, arbitration, irresponsibility, abandonment of reforms, what shall we do, gentlemen? Should we vote for such a bill on the socialist budget, advances? Well, better yet, I suggest that we now declare our mistrust to the government who sent such a budget to the Assembly. Instead of calling ourselves here on some masked things, something that's not what they say here, by the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42376	Time, thank you. Replica, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42377	The number of decibels does not mean any excess arguments. What's more, the shortage. The faster hand-wrestling, the more nervous it is. And everything that the previous speaker said just before, in the first minute of his address, stands. But it stands for the government's AP Vojvodina budget, which we still don't have as a suggestion. I see that Bojan Pajtic wants to go into temporary financing, because next year is an election year, because he wants many more "Hatterlands", where children distracted in development will be left without a roof, without an object, and they have full pockets. All of this is true, but for the AP Vojvodina budget, which grew annually by one billion dinars from 2006 to 2015. The party army, the kinsman's army, the godfather's and the burazer's camel, the Bojan Pajtic regime. And what you want to spend in the dark the resources of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that's not going to happen. It's been 12 years in Serbia. It's been 15 years in Vojvodina. There were enough lights out, melting around various cafes, cafes, and who knows what facilities you've been putting in your pockets and povertying people in Serbia and Vojvodina. The lights in Serbia will never turn off again. It will never be available to Serbian citizens again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42378	Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: And finally, where is the mandated chairman of the DS? I thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Markovic, when you throw and challenge someone's right to a replica, I wish you'd warned your colleague next to you, Mr. Bozovic, not to throw Mr. Babic - stupid. Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: "I beg your pardon?" - Yes, you just threw it to Mr. Bozovic. You threw Mr. Babic - don't talk like that, you're talking so stupid. We heard, you don't have to pretend surprised now. I wish Mr. Markovic had warned you, not challenged Mr. Babic's right to the line. (Balsha Bozovic, from town: Yes? If you say you didn't say it, I'll apologize, but you said it to Mr. Bozovic. You want me to quote everything you said? You don't think you can hear it from that place, it sounds very good. And if you call one MP in the National Assembly tossing his exposure to a stupid fool, how do you address your colleague, Mr Bozovic? Here you go, Mr. Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42379	All I can say is that this is about basic knowledge and citizens being deceived by a colleague of the previous speaker. In many developed countries, the budget is being discussed for a month, where everything is arranged. Imagine the MPs are considering a month's budget. And they talk, they talk, they exchange, they have arguments, they have arguments against arguments, but here the opposite parties and the opposition have no arguments except to wipe and delete and delete. Citizens of Serbia who have not monitored today's transmission since we've been here, colleagues Pavicevic and Zoran Zivkovic have been proposing a whole day of amendment to delete everything, to have no budget and to go on temporary financing. And imagine, we have received recognition from an institution such as the IMF, when the settings are realistic, the realization is encouraging and these estimates come from an institution that has no political reason whatsoever to give a positive assessment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42380	Time, Mr. Radenkovic. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42381	Thank you. Although this is not in line with the content of article 37 which also speaks the rules of monitoring the implementation of IPA projects, only one sentence about it, and the other will be a comment on your proposal. So, the Public Finance Management Programme has been adopted and will be the basis for funding both by the EU and the World Bank, so-called. The PfM has been accepted that Europe accepts as a sufficiently reliable standard for all the resources that we receive from them, we accept, use and report on the one that gives the funds that have been used on purpose, that the results that these funds provide for have been achieved. If that's not enough for credibility, then I'll tell you that the entire budget and the whole program is supported by international organisations, supported by the domestic and foreign profession. Let's go to the other elements of what you're talking about, transparently completely. In those parts where we weren't mandatory prime minister has already said, and we in parallel documents will publish all elements of activated guarantees, all elements. In Article 3, there are already borrowings. Arbitration on the contrary, what you're saying is arbitration, there are rules that are strictly respected here even when they don't suit you. In places where we don't have rules we repeat old locations like the example of Article 31. When we pass a new law, then we will allocate non-intentional transfers to local levels of government. Subsidy is strictly in accordance with the rules. In the part where subsidies are only in shape and not in essence since they relate to capital expenditure i.e. to the participation of railways and roads in international loans, these are not subsidies, i.e. capital investments that are only in the form of state subsidies, i.e. the Republic budget is passed on to users. Finally, irresponsibility is very responsible. Giving up on reforms I think it is out of 78 amendments – it is deleted, it is defiance and abandonment of reforms, not what we propose. Quite the opposite of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42382	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Dr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42383	Mr. Minister, we have also proposed in this article, as well as in the previous introduction of the obligation to report to the National Assembly once a year on the implementation of the accounts referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article. Many times in this three-day debate we heard from you ministers, as you say – we can deliver it to you, we have that data, here, I'll deliver it to you if you need it. We here, among other things, criticise non-transparentity and the fact that the Assembly doesn't have all that information. You say it's easy to get to, but we can't get to it. For us, it's inaccessible data, and in many laws, we've asked the government to commit itself to reporting more regularly. Here you say in the rejection of the amendment - it will be in the final account. Who knows when the final bill will come. Who knows if we'll ever discuss it here. How can we use that data? We need them. Here when we confront arguments we have some data that are either obsolete or not reliable enough, and you come out with real-time data. Then we have a problem that we have strong enough arguments to face arguments. That is why we are asking through this amendment and the previous one that the government undertakes once a year to report parliament. We believe that the way you think, how you explained it to us through the rejection of the amendment, that it will be through the final account is not good enough and cannot benefit us from the work. I ask you to consider accepting this amendment, because it is our only intention to improve the work of Parliament and MPs. We want to have as much data as possible. Then we might have fewer misunderstandings and not have this much discussion, as has been the third day of the 2016 draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42384	Thank you. The 38th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr. Becic, the Honorable Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic and the Honored Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Mijailovic, have also submitted the amendment to Article 38. We believe that this member, like all members of this bill, should be deleted. In Article 38's position - The total expenditure and expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's 2017 budget is limited to 2017, and a number is now listed, i.e. for 2018, again in one amount. We have here a very precise, concrete remark regarding defining the character of this budget. One word has been used here to describe this budget as programming, and we believe that this budget, even based on the content of article 38 in both positions, is not programmic, but linear. We are now very interested, here, in Mr Sertic's opinion, for example, or in the MPs who are convinced that this is the programme budget, why are the funds still primarily linked to institutions, instead of connecting to projects and programmes that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is supposed to implement? I have several times discussed this amendment to Article 38. I have already mentioned this argument. Neither Mr Sertic nor Mr Vujovic responded. As I think, it was not a convincing argument of the government's representatives during today's debate or our notes on non-creditability, non-transparency, arbitration, irresponsibility, and for me, however, Mr Vujovic, obviously, and based on the reading of the law and on our debate, giving up the reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42386	Time. Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42387	Dear Chairman, I ask you first to read exactly who submitted the amendment, because you have not read the names of the MPs who have submitted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42388	I'm sorry, Mr. Djurishich. I think you know that, but I accept the remark and I'll read it all the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42389	I don't know what I know. You've been doing it one way all day, and now you want to change it. So please don't. Therefore, Article 38 speaks of the total level of expenditure of expenditure of the budget for 2017 and 2018. What we noticed when we look at that same member from last year's budget, is that this level of expenditure for 2016 is now included in this budget and it is so – 1,085 billion. Last year, however, the figure of 1,095 billion stood for 2017, with a number of 1,060 billion this year. We don't understand, and yet this is probably the consequence, Mr. Minister, of our uninformedness, of how this change occurred, because we see that, compared to last year's 2016 budget, it's true in that framework that you provided for last year's budget. We do not know why it changed for 2017 and why this projection has changed, and in our amendment we have put the number for 2017 to be the same one that you put last year for 2017 – 1,095 billion, and for 2018 we increased by following those trends, as we could count on it based on this small number of data we have. Of course, the amendment was rejected. These amounts were said to be determined on the basis of macroeconomic fiscal projections. But I repeat, we don't have those numbers, we don't have them all the way. We just copied your 2017 projection last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42390	Thank you. The 39th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Becic, the Honorable Ministers, Sertic, Vujovic and Ilic, this is the last amendment to the 2016 draft Budget Law, which was submitted by us by the People's MPs of the New Party. Mr. Babic and Mrs. Mrdakovic, I always give precise information to which I read. We suggest that this law does not enter into force on 1 January 2016, above all because this law is anti-reformal and very clear to us, I think, reveals that the government chaired by Mr. Vukic has no reform orientation. It was a key argument we used during... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42392	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, magistrate Dr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42393	Our proposal is to respect the constitution that says the laws in the Republic of Serbia take effect eight days after adoption in parliament. Since this budget is likely to be adopted tomorrow, there is no danger, as in the grounds for refusal states, that we can enter 2016 and that pension financing, the work of the state authorities and so on can be compromised. So if he adopts tomorrow, he can enter into force on December 23rd, before the end of the year. Since the fiscal year begins on January 1st, there is no concern. Perhaps when this law was written and sent to the Assembly it was thought that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, 15 days would stand here so MPs could meet him, that he would be adopted later in December and then we would be in a situation that would take less than eight days before New Year's Eve to come into force. So if we pass the law tomorrow, there's no reason for him to come into force the next day. There's no such rush, there's no reason. On the eighth day, 20th and one will come into force, before January 1st, nothing is threatened. I think this is what we need to show that we respect the Constitution. That's what he was talking about at the end of the line here and Commissioner Han yesterday, I don't know what day it is. He said that we are adopting too many laws in this House in an emergency procedure and in a shortened procedure and that this is not good, that this should be done in exceptional cases. So now, unlike 2014, when we adopted the budget on December 25th, we will adopt it on December 12th. Therefore, there is no reason not to accept this amendment and to have the law enter into force the next day, but to respect the eight-day constitutional deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42394	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget System You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vera Paunović, Marija Obradović, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Stefana Miladanovic, Elvira Kovac, Dubravka Filipovski, Gordana Comić, Olena Papuga, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Sabina Dazdarevic, Ivana Dinić and Aida Ćorović. The word has Stefan Miladinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42395	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, their amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act for the first time introduces gender-responsible budgeting into the budget process. Members of the Women's Parliamentary Network have submitted five amendments to this bill. The first amendment we have submitted is to Article 1. The draft law supplementing the member of the new act in Article 2 of the applicable law. The legislator, i.e. the Government, has introduced a definition in this article, which says in the proposal that gender budgeting represents the introduction of the principle of gender equality in the budgetary process, which means the birth analysis of the budget and the restructuring of income and expenditure with a view to improving gender equality. My colleagues and I have submitted an amendment and we believe that this definition should be read – gender budgeting is the application of birth analysis to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina and units of local self-government, in order to look at the effects of the distribution of budgetary resources on the lives of women and men, with the aim of improving gender equality. We believe that this amendment should be accepted because this definition is more precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42396	Thank you. Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski, Gordana Komic, Vera Paunović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Marija Obradović, Stefana Miladanovic, Elvira Kovac, Olena Papuga, Dr Aleksandra Tomić, Susana Spasojevic, Aida Ćorović, Anamarija Vicek, Sabina Dazdarevic and Ljiljana Marusic together. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word is Maria Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42397	Thank you, Chairman. This is not the right time to be in education, or to talk about gender-responsible budgeting, but what we will do when the discussion imposes that term on us. I would say that this, repeated what counterpart Stefana Miladanovic, one of the five amendments submitted by the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or a member of the Women's Parliamentary Network, said. I want to thank Minister Vujovic for accepting this amendment. That's the second one now, if we consider the one for agriculture, where we have allowed a higher percentage of subsidies to be allocated to farmers than it has been so far. That's what we've been trying to do over the past few years, and every time we've made a little shift. This is the third year when we finally have two amendments. It's not big steps for those who have huge expectations, but small steps we have to make these institutional movements, but also progress in any case. So, once again, thank you for adopting this amendment, which actually speaks of that we have complemented certain provisions of this law, so that we can now allow conditions to introduce gender-responsible budgeting into the budget process, at all levels of government. So, not to be a dilemma whether this applies only to the republican budget, this amendment allows it to be implemented both in the province and in the budgets of local self-government, so at all levels of government. Just one more detail. The women's parliamentary network consists of 84 MPs, therefore, all MPs of the Serbian parliament. We all agreed and stood behind these amendments, although we signed maybe a dozen of us each of these amendments. It's important that you know that all MPs stand, and not just e-mails. This isn't just a woman's question. Many colleagues are men who have supported us in previous years, but this year, even though they did not sign it. But this is the first year when my fellow MPs meet me in parliament and insist that next year they too are signatories of such amendments. Here, now you can look at and give a wide shot, to see your colleagues who really support what I'm talking about, which means we have a change of political consciousness somewhere. We also turned to some different thoughts when we were planning the budget. We're not just in numbers, we're thinking about some of the other shifts we're making. I would like to mention, I hope that my colleague will not be offended, counterpart Milan Petric submitted amendments when we were preparing to criticise the introduction of gender-responsible budgeting. What's the big dialogue about? In a conversation with counterpart Gordana Comic, who asked him why he was against gender-responsible budgeting, they came to the conclusion that counterpart Petric wanted to withdraw all of his amendments that were against it and support everything we talked about. This is another proof that we in Serbian society really need to open dialogues, not conflicts, if we think differently, open dialogue, come to the point of argument. Thank you, colleagues, one more time. We have made a major shift in this budgetary debate and by introducing officially responsible budgeting in Serbia's planning budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42398	Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42399	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, the Honorable Minister Ilic and the Honorable Mr Mijailovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted one amendment to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, in accordance with Article 3. We have two key arguments that we have offered to the legislator of this law, on which we should follow our amendments. First point 1. We believe that the increase in the salaries of public sector employees is selective. The selectivity, when introduced as one type of criterion, necessarily leads to one kind of injustice. Then it is logical to conclude that a large number of citizens who are concerned with this change will react precisely because of this injustice that arises. The second thing, the measures announced here are contrary to responsible and well-designed policy towards the problem of public debt sustainability and fiscal consolidation. Why? Because these measures have not been followed in advance by prepared and well-known measures to address public sectoral problems, e.g. There is also a question of burdens on the mass of public sector employees for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the absence of sustainable and systematic reform of the pension system. In other words, from this selectivity at the outset, it went to a field of unpreparedness for a wider area of action. We felt that it was necessary as MPs to respond to the perceived shortcomings and problems with the amendment to Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42400	Time, MP. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42401	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Article 3 The draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system provides for, as proposed by the government, a possible increase in wages and pensions. I would like one of the ministers present, as the finance minister is not present at the moment, only to confirm that this "possibly increasing" will be a real increase from 1 January 2016. My amendment changes three things in this bill. First, it changes the word “possibly ” by saying,“ it will increase. ” So it doesn't leave the possibility, as it stands now, but clearly says it will increase in 2016. So it doesn't leave the possibility as it stands now, it clearly says it will increase in 2016. Then it changes the essence of what needs to be done and how it needs to be increased. First, since our opinion that the policy of reducing wages and pensions is poor, we are asking this amendment to return pensions to the level prior to the adoption of pension reduction laws, as well as salaries to return to the public sector to the level that was before the law on wage cuts came into force. In addition, the third thing we're asking for is for employees of the Ministry of Justice, courts and prosecutors for 2016 when they return what is reduced to increase earnings by 2%. That employees in the state administration also increase earnings by 2%, that employees in science and culture increase profits by 2%. That's two percent inflation rate in 2015. I pray, if nothing else answers the question, will January 1st increase all that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42402	Thank you. In accordance with Article 3 of the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42403	President, can I have another second, I have two, three minutes more time, you don't have to interrupt me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42404	Don't you go harassing me? ...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42405	I'm not harassing you, you interrupted me...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42406	Really. And from every gesture of mine, you see someone I don't even know what. I will, I'll give you those three seconds, I'm sure there'll be something. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Well, you don't give me that much.) I have to fight. That's right, can we communicate once that you're not fighting? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I never argue.) We normally speak a normal tone, our goal is to discuss the budget. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Always. Three days is fine. ) There, and we do not have to be constantly in some false conflict, when we are in no conflict at all. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Is he here? It's not. National MP Ninoslav Stojadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. And he's not here, okay. National MP Branko Karavidic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42407	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'll partially repeat what my colleague Djurisic said. We have amended that provision by our amendment, which can increase or increase salaries and pensions by a certain percentage. We have said that instead the word stands, and it will increase. My amendment also provides for the return of salaries and pensions to 2014 levels and provides for pensioners to increase pensions by 1.25% from 1 January 2016, workers from the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence 2%, institutions of primary, secondary education and student standards by 4%, higher education institutions and student standards by 2%, preschool institutions by 4%, institutions by 4%, social protection institutions and health care institutions 3% and cultural institutions by 2%. The arguments that led me to write this amendment are, in fact, difficult lives and pensioners and all public sector employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42408	Thank you. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 3rd amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP... What?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42409	Thank you, Madam Chairman. counterpart Biljana Hasanovic Korac predicted that in addition to the categories envisioned by the government's proposal and state administration employees, salaries will be increased by 2%. I've talked about it many times today. It is that employees of the state administration who work, do great work and I think that for no objective reason as well as employees of culture as employees of other state bodies are excluded from this plan of a minimum salary increase in the government in 2016. Since the finance minister is here, I would only repeat one more question of my own – whether this word "can" be interpreted by the government, or whether it will increase salaries and pensions as they stand in this article as of 1 January 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42410	Is there a question from this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42411	That's what this amendment says. It says: it will increase instead of power. Well, in the same way, they're similar amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42412	Just like the first one. No, I'm trying to understand. Okay. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42413	So here, we avoid using imperatives will increase because we are not directly in charge of all levels of government that correspond to these governments. So we can expect it to be that much, but we can't put an imperative because we can't order it. The government where it can and will be, where the government is responsible, and where the government is not responsible, it will depend on the financial opportunities of the local level of government. I think even politically that the government will make sure where they can do it, they can't do it, but I don't think it makes any sense to put something in the law that goes beyond our jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42414	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42415	We believe that as far as this amendment is concerned, every increase is good and that we support essentially any kind of increase that will lead to a better life. However, we need to get the salaries and pensions back to the former state, only then to raise salaries and pensions. After all, citizens are not interested in who is in power, who was and who will be, they are only interested in getting earned and earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42416	Thank you. Member Vesna Marjanović was submitted to the 3rd. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Marija Obradović, Dubravka Filipovski, Gordana Čomić, Vera Punović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Stefana Miladinović, Elvira Kovac, Olena Papuga, Aleksandra Tomić, Susana Spasojevic, Aida Đorović, Anamarija Vice, Sabina Dazdarevic, Ljiljana Malušić and Ljiljana Nestorović. The word is Sabina Dazdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42417	Thank you, Your Honor. We have submitted the amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act with the aim of applying gender-responsible budgeting to all levels of government, i.e. to ensure the introduction of gender-responsible budgeting into all programmes, programming activities and projects financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina, or units of local self-government. In fact, representatives of 28 budgetary institutions have gone through various information sessions and trainings in co-operation with the UN women and the Ministry of Finance, where they have gained knowledge and experience to help them include gender equality in their budget. This is about identifying different analyses whether the budget meets the needs of both women and men, and how these analyses will lead to the location of budgetary resources in a way that will improve gender equality and foster the potential of both women and men. Once again, I will repeat that, specifically with this amendment, namely the amendment of the Women's Parliamentary Network, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the local self-government units, and in order to avoid confusion and misreading whether and to what extent exactly this way of budgeting applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42418	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42419	I just wanted to explain why you do not accept the formula that voice – when preparing the programme model, the gender impact indicators, outcomes and results are defined which show the planned expected contributions of the programme, programming activities or projected achievement of gender equality. Your formulation in the core part is not different, but in this first part, and let us be advised by people who know better, by listing the Republic of Serbia, AP Vojvodina, the unit of local self-government we leave a part that is politically sensitive. The issue of Kosovo here then de facto we say that Kosovo is not the subject of this. I would hate for us to have implications that could mean any prejudication, anything, about the part of Serbia's territory. So our formulation applies to everything, I think it offers from the point of view of gender equality exactly the same. That is why I would suggest that we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42420	The word is Maria Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42421	Since Minister Vujovic was not there when we talked about this second amendment that was adopted, I would now like to thank him personally again in front of the Women's Parliamentary Network on behalf of it. This is what you're right about when you talk about these levels of power, that we haven't figured this out together here. For us, defining gender-responsible goals here is essential. That's the part to throw in. You see, behind, we have inserted, therefore, this Republic of Serbia, Vojvodina, local self-government, and then inserting the words "defining the gender-responsible objectives", before "indicator". So that was just the point. Would you like to continue some consultations, so I don't waste my time now, and then we'll see later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42422	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Tomic, Vera Paunović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Stefana Miladanovic, Elvira Kovac, Marija Obradović, Dubravka Filipovski, Olena Papuga, Susana Spasojevic, Aida Ćorović, Anamarija Vicek, Sabina Dazdarevic, Ljiljana Malušić and Ljiljana Nestorović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42423	Thank you. The joint amendment of the People's MPs of all parliamentary groups, i.e. the amendment that has been made by agreement between us in the Women's Parliamentary Network, and women activists from the civil sector and at the end of the line, consultations with European standards and rules on gender budgeting, because in the countries of Europe that we want to be part of, this has been a daily day for quite a long time. So, all amendments intend to give a clear unambiguous instruction to where, and how to apply indicators, gender budgeting, or as my colleagues have already said, to look at the budget of which money is being collected, who are these who are being raised, when we are doing fiscal policy, then we look at who all the money can be taken from, but we look at this how many men and women have it and what it is from the National Assembly's decision to spend money on both women and men. This is why this is a topic for dialogue, and I am glad that we agree that this is just the idea and beginning of the Women's Parliamentary Network and that we expect all MPs to participate in this dialogue to make appropriate decisions next year. So our amendment refers to Article 7 which says that instead of the text, the way the explanation will show the birth analysis of the local authorities' budget is a guideline with a form to show the birth analysis of the local authorities' budgets, because these instructions exist. In countries where this is already the seventh eighth year, there are enough professionals in the ministry, and there are many local self-governments where they know, they work already. It is our will to adopt. For the previous amendment, my offer to make a correction to enter "AP Vojvodina" instead of the word "area" as it always stands in laws where we have shared competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42424	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic SDS, Green Serbia, the ZZS, submitted together to the 8th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42425	The Government has made amendments, i.e. supplementing Article 8 which provides for exemptions from the restrictions set out in Article 54, paragraph 1. The law, and that's it. responsibility for commitments. In the rejection of the amendment, we play with words. This article 54 has a title – responsibility for commitments. We wrote that we disagree with this amendment, because an exception to the rules of responsibility is foreseen, and the government has said that it disagrees with our amendment, because the amendment it has proposed prescribes an exception in relation to the rule that applies to the way the commitments are made. It's a needless game of words to me. If it were written differently, without this first part, I would also accept the government's argument of why this is not accepted, because this is about making commitments to stimulate investment in an economy that is usually a multi-annual commitment. That is the essence, and it is good that so far it has also been taken over, so in some ways the law has been bending, to put it creatively, and this now puts it in one legal form, and if the government had refused our amendment, I would have accepted and I wouldn't have even discussed it. Essentially, I understand the government's intention, but there was no need for such exhibition in explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42426	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic SDS, Green Serbia, the ZZS, submitted together to the 9th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42427	Thank you, Madam President. This article refers to the assessment of capital projects. We have added a position, a new position 2 which reads – "After Article 3 a new position 4 is added which is predicted that the Government submits at least once a year to the National Assembly a report on the monitoring and implementation and implementation of capital projects". In response to the refusal of this amendment, it is said – the amendment is not accepted for the reason it is Article 76. The law on the budgetary system, this is an abandoned, prescribed government obligation to report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the budget. No one argues that the government is obliged to report on budget implementation. We ask that the government submit at least once a year a report on the monitoring and implementation of capital projects, meaning as a separate document. I don't think that should be a problem, since it's about capital projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42428	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic SDS, Green Serbia, the ZZS, submitted together to the 12th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42429	The amendment envisions an increase in the budget reserve from 2% to 2.5%. We think it's too big, I think the government went to a reduction in the budget reserve over the past years, saying it achieves greater transparency and better planning, greater responsibility, and now that limit, not much, but still moves. We don't think it should, that it's better to stay 2%, because most of the budget for those 0.5% will be adopted in advance by this Assembly's decision, it's planned to be more transparent, and this way, for a small part, but again, when you look at the amount of the funds, the large amount, increases the possibility that the government, in accordance with some of its needs, reacts and leaves more money on the side. As far as I understand the government's intention through this attempt to reform, because there have been few real reforms in a year and a half, and one of the things that has been said is this greater responsibility, transparency, greater predictability. All of this is contrary to what is proposed by amendments to the Budgetary System Act. That's why we believe that article 12 should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42430	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic SDS, Green Serbia, the ZZS, submitted together to the 14th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42431	Thank you, Chairman. We have here in Article 14 suggested that Article 14 be deleted. The government did not accept our amendment because it said that in 2015 the job that was to be completed was not completed and that it would take another year. So the government is looking for another year for a job she committed to a year ago to finish it in 2015. There you go. So much for reform. So there's nothing to be done, you come here to the Assembly and you say, "Give me another year." I'd like to hear at least the minister, I think maybe in all these discussions we can sense what it is, and it's been said, and here it is again, that story, it seems to me from the beginning of this discussion, why we talk as if the budget is linear and not programming and you've explained we haven't prepared ourselves. But last year, if we remember that discussion, and perhaps counterpart Babic can read something from what I said then, and can also say what he said, it was in each second sentence that this budget for 2015 was the first programming budget. Well, the first programming budget, then the first programming budget, we've heard it from all sides. Now, at the end of 2015, we're going nowhere to see the results of that programming budget, nowhere to see which programs have been achieved, what are the indicators, but they say - give us another year with this change. We consider it without a clear answer. Why wasn't it done in 2015 that the government has no right for another year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42432	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42433	Unlike those who announced huge budget rebalancing and catastrophic budget announcements for 2015, what the Government of Aleksandra Vukic of SNS managed to do, and that is, we did not have a rebalance, we reduced the expenditure side of the budget, we increased the revenue side of the budget, we reduced the deficit, we developed from negative forecasting of negative development of 0.5%, so to the Fiscal Council that predicted and minus 1.5% negative, we came to have a 1% growth this year, that's all the results of the SNS government policy and thank you for the opportunity to promote them. After a year of heavy measures, we were in a situation that as the only country that had managed to produce results in just a year, we made with the help and consent of the IMF to raise salaries in health care, to raise salaries in education, to raise salaries to soldiers, to raise salaries to police employees, to raise salaries and pensioners, and also to those who have not been reduced, and those who have never been touched, and that is more than 60% of pensioners. Well, are there few of those reasons for one commendation of the 2015 budget? And just someone who doesn't want to see from political hatred or because of the fact that it's better to finance temporarily, not to adopt the budget, can't see these results and you can quote me what I was saying about the 2015 budget and this one for 2016, but the results are on the side of Alexander Vukic's government, no matter how much you don't want to see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42434	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS, the ZS -- submitted together to the 15th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42435	Thank you, Mr. President. Government proposal in Article 15. The law amends Article 47. Laws and amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, which refers to the deadline. It says – it ceases to apply on 1 January 2015, if technical conditions are created for this. That's how it was in that article. The government is now proposing to delete "1. In January 2015, the word “if” and that is to say, it ceases to apply when technical conditions are created for this. So it's totally unacceptable for us to stand this formula when technical conditions are created for it. What does that mean when? It could mean never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, So the government hasn't fulfilled the obligation again. There it was about these amendments and the additions to the law adopted in 2013 that some work would be completed by 1 January 2015, and again it was a word if technical conditions were created for it. So it's not done, and now it's a completely undefined deadline and it's said – when technical conditions are created for it. According to the government's results, this means never to us, and we have suggested that the word "when", that is, this whole part, the word "when" be replaced by "1". on the date of entry into force of this Agreement, the date of entry into force of this Agreement shall be the date of entry into force of this Agreement. So we've given the government a deadline of a year, a whole 2016 to finish this job, to create technical conditions, and to do what needs to be done in order to finish a job that demotiably ends itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42436	Thank you. The word has Miletic Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42437	The President-in-Office, Mr Vujovic, Ministers, we support the formulation in Article 47(2), as the Government has proposed, and that "when technical conditions are created for this" does not mean infinity, but as soon as the conditions are actually created, it will apply. However, in consultation with Minister Verbić, the minister of education and his associates, as well as with the communities of professional schools, we believe that both secondary schools and students' homes, which creates, such an existing solution raises the question of the functioning of individual institutions in the field of education, especially secondary schools, pupils' homes, and some other institutions in the field of education. If those institutions do not retain the character of their own income and are not used for the purposes set out in a specific law, these funds under the Budgetary System Act shall be paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. However, paragraph 3 sets out the exceptions, so that the exemptions relate to revenues based on the collection of court fees, revenues made in higher education institutions, scientific institutions and cultural institutions, the founders of which are the Republic and local self-government. Therefore, these funds retain the character of their own income and are used for the purposes set out in a specific law. We believe that, and so does the Ministry of Education, and it is to you, dear Mr. Vujovic, that you have been suggested, to exclude these institutions, because it is a very problematic solution that remains this way, given that these schools have, these institutions of the economy that are complex organisational structures and which are practically a polygon to carry out practical teaching. Elimination of the possibility of using its own resources would endanger the survival of school economies, because agriculture, then production in these areas and these jobs and these problems that arise, cannot be planned in advance. That is why available financial resources are needed. For example, there is a malfunction of tractors, combines, etc. The seed goes or the harvest goes away, everything fails if it doesn't respond at a moment's notice with its own means earned in such an action. The Ministry of Education absolutely understood this need. For these reasons, we feel that we should have taken care of it. Of course, it's too late now. It is only possible that through the amendment of the Committee, this issue can be corrected, and practice will show that the lack of law is if this is not respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42438	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Stefana Miladanovic, Elvira Kovac, Marija Obradovic, Dubravka Filipovski, Gordana Komic, Vera Paunovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac. , Olena Papuga, Aleksandra Tomić, Suzana Spasojevic, Aida Ćorović, Ana Marija Vicek, Sabina Dazdarevic, Ljiljana Malušić and Ljiljana Nestorović. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42439	Thank you. Dear Presidents, Honored Ministers, the Women's Parliamentary Network has submitted an amendment to Article 16. The bill also refers to the gradual introduction of gender-responsible budgeting into the budget process. As I said, with the amendment to Article 1 which we have submitted, the adoption of this law will actually become a practice, and in order to achieve full application, we need time and support for all budget users. This year, 28 institutions have been trained to introduce a gender aspect, and in order to increase the number of budget beneficiaries themselves, and hence programmes, support from the state is needed. In order for this to be institutionally supported, we think it is necessary to have some official document. We have suggested that it is called - a plan for the gradual introduction of the gender-responsible budgeting that you, i.e. the finance minister, i.e. the competent authorities by 31 March of the current year for the next financial year, and this would certainly help all budgetary users to prepare their programmes. The reasons we have received for the refusal of amendments states that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the gradual introduction implies the planned implementation of the provisions relating to gender-responsible budgeting and that our solution has been assessed as excessive. We believe that it is not excessive, on the contrary, our solution precisely defines the implementation of the provisions relating to gender-responsible budgeting and therefore we believe that this document by the competent authority is necessary in order to set a deadline for full application, which is 2020, and realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42440	Thank you. Minister Vujovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42441	If I could just for a little while. With the same explanation that I gave for the previous member, already agreed with my colleague, it is acceptable for me to add a sentence -- in line with the annual plan for the gradual introduction of the gender-responsible budgeting, which is new, but to return the text to the autonomous provinces. So with one like that, it could be a parallel suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42442	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42443	Thanks again. So this is going to be four out of the six amendments that we've submitted, and it may not matter much now, but it's really talking about one big shift that we've made. That the public doesn't think that now the minister is too soft of heart, simply, I suppose you come from the middle where birth responsible budgeting is something that is normal and very nice, means that you want to introduce such a system of values in Serbia too. I think you should be proud that you are introducing a gender-responsible budgeting into Serbia. That could be a nice item in your biography. For those who do not only appreciate the figures, the essence of this amendment is, therefore, yes, as well as all previous ones, when we have already introduced gender-responsible budgeting, let's get to the bottom of the details of all our budgets, both the republican and local self-government, and this is the proposal, year by year, to have these little steps, to see what we've seen, what we've done, and that we can, not only be proud of it, but also to encourage us, and to see, in accordance with the assessment done, whether we can further, we can do more. Thank you again, and I hope that we are seen by committees and committees throughout Serbia and that this will be implemented in their local budgets. We should remember this evening, it's big for Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42444	Minister, because of the record of a little confusion. You didn't accept this amendment? (Dusan Vujovic, from the post: No, I gave the advice. Don't you? What about the advice? All right, all right. For the record, we need to know. Okay. Members Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic, Dusan Petrovic, Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42445	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, dear ministers, obviously this is the fluid of this Assembly, and I hope that our amendment regarding birth equality will come into force in 2018 instead of 2020. Since we as the political organisation SDS-Boris Tadic are known to support, above all, human rights, therefore and women's rights, I expect, Mr Minister, that not only the amendments submitted by the Women's Network, but also the amendments proposed by political organisations will be accepted. I don't think there's any reason why this amendment that we've submitted you don't accept, and it says that gender-responsible budgeting in general should be applied since 2018, not since 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42446	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Matic and Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic, Dusan Petrovic, Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together submitted the 17th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42447	Thank you. Ministers, Article 17 speaks of a time limit within which units of local self-government are obliged to comply with the budget decisions of Article 1(1) of this Act from the date of entry into force of this law, and this article refers to budgeting, i.e. the way budgeting is made, using gender-responsible budgeting. The government had predicted a six-month deadline. With the amendment of colleagues we had just heard, the deadline was moved to 1 December 2016. We were forecasting a nine-month period, so shorter than the deadline the government accepted. I think it's a good thing the government accepted that amendment. We also asked that the deadline be extended not by 11, as long as it was eventually accepted by the government, but by nine months. We all know that somewhere in April of the month, local elections are probably waiting for us. If this six-month term had remained, no local self-government would have arrived. She'd be in the middle of an election the moment she had to meet this deadline. That's why we proposed this nine-month deadline. We are pleased that this second amendment has been adopted because it allows new local self-governments to adopt and adjust their budget to their own budget planning after local elections. In any case, we understand why our amendment was not accepted, because it was accepted by each other with a slightly longer deadline, but it is good that the government had heard that this deadline she proposed could produce the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42448	Thank you. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic, Dusan Petrovic, Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42449	Thank you. This Article 18 is the last member and, like any last member of any law, determines when the law enters into force. For my unknown reason, it is also put here that the law enters the next day of the publication in the "Official Messenger", not the eighth, as prescribed by the Constitution, and says that only in exceptional situations can it be shorter. Since we do not see a reason not to respect this eight-day constitutional deadline, I repeat, some things in these amendments and additions should only apply from 1 January 2016. So there's no reason to enter into force of this law the next day, instead of the eighth as the Constitution says. We have suggested that we respect the Constitution, that we respect the predictability of the law, that all the users of the law and those to whom the law applies, may be sufficiently familiar with what this Assembly is adopting. That is why it stands for eight days, not for something to come from the next day, so that people may not know, so that when you come to judgment, that you do not know any law does not set you free. I repeat, Commissioner Han spoke in this parliament yesterday about the fact that it is not good that the Assembly adopts the laws by emergency procedure. It is also not good that this eight-day constitutional deadline is just so baffled that it is shortened without a valid, truly justified reason. I repeat, maybe the government thought we were going to adopt these laws at the end of December, because we should have waited, or we shouldn't have waited for these 15 for the debate, but as probably part of the accompanying laws, it's being adopted together with the budget, and I don't see any reason, since we're going to adopt it tomorrow, so that this amendment doesn't be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42450	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Next item – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on excise duties. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the bill. You've received reports from the competent committees and the government's opinion. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42451	Dear People's MPs, we started yesterday, Minister Vujovic, a story about the price of fuel in Serbia. I said that the price of fuel in Serbia is inappropriate compared to the state of the economy in Serbia, and I said that it is not in line with both fuel prices and Europe. I told you the example that in Austria the price of fuel is lower than in Serbia, 20 dinars, Minister Vujovic. With this law, you increase that price further. Mr. Vujovicu, look. This is a picture of the "Avanti" pump in Insbrook, Austria, taken last night. Fuel price is 1.01 euros. The average salary in Insbruk is 1,450 euros. This is a picture of NIS Southpetrol today in Serbia 132, 140 dinars. Fuel in Serbia costs 20, 30 dinars, Mr Vujovic, rather than Austria. You know what the salaries are, Mr. Vujovicu, in Serbia? Are you going to the market? How can you increase excise duties on fuel that is more expensive? We've heard from the people of Bosnia. You said no to the truth yesterday. The price of fuel in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska is 0.85 euros, Mr Vujovic, 30, 40 dinars of difference. In Macedonia 0.8. You said no to the truth, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42452	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42453	I'm joining my colleague Janko Veselinović. We got the wrong information from the minister about fuel prices, and it's really, on the one hand, amateur, and on the other hand, it's not even professional, because there's no need for anyone to think that they can get us untrue information in the 21st century. Regardless of censorship and everything that's going on, it's still easy to get some real information. It's completely inappropriate, bad, some would say a worse word than I do, that in this era of general oil and oil derivatives in the world, that the only country in the world where the price of fuel is accumulated is Serbia. As price of crude oil falls on the world market, which should logically turn oil prices into a decline in retail, or oil derivatives in retail facilities, prices are rising in Serbia. They say it's a little, a little bit, two, a dinar, two, three, but the question is, why is that happening in the first place? Our amendment provides for a reduction of excise duties on all oil derivatives and other energy products mentioned here, because it is fully in line with the policy of protecting citizens' standards and creating conditions for the economy to be relieved of the excess costs that come from this area. There is no reason, no explanation that for the first time in history in the only country in the world, when oil prices fall everywhere, I apologize for waking you up, only Serbian citizens have to pay for fuel more expensive. Do you expect people to go across the border again? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42454	Please respect the weather. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: both the knife and the cake are in your hands.) So, what do you prefer? A knife or a cake? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Choose yourself. Is that right? Okay. I wouldn't do that with women. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Reverend Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Honored Ministers Vujovic and Antić, Mr Mijailovic, I see few SNS MPs are tired. There is no Mr. Babic, there are no other gentlemen to discuss, but I join, honored gentlemen, the speech of Mr. Veselinovic from the Turn and Speech Movement of Mr. Zoran Zivkovic. Why? It is not acceptable, gentlemen, that the current decline in the world market oil price, the government of the Republic of Serbia, is using to increase excise duties on oil derivatives. Dear gentlemen, I guess we all learned that if the price of oil falls, then our citizens should feel that fall, and not that we are now trying not to inform our citizens about what is happening in the world and that they have the same prices for gasoline, for oil, as they were before the oil price fell. It's not acceptable, I think. If the government has no sense for the citizens, we MPs must have it. Secondly, we suggest that the current decline in oil prices on the world market also affect the prices of derivatives in the domestic economy. So, citizens feel it, but so does our economy. Again with this proposal, the government comes with an idea that is contrary to the declared policy. We believe that what our proposal would be adopted in the National Assembly would also mean an acceleration of economic activity, and as a consequence we would have possible economic growth, as well as an increase in employment in the private sector. If we follow the government's proposal, none of it will happen, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42456	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42457	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although this Excise Act is not in the power of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, I, as a colleague who deals with energy affairs, want to comment on this issue instead of Minister Vujovic. Taking into account several elements, first of all, understanding the ease of the position of opposition MPs, at this point, to criticise such a measure and how populist it is to do so simply at the moment, because it is never likable, nor is it popular to raise any excise or price, on the one hand. On the other hand, taking into account the need for this country to stabilise its public finances and define all those priorities that are in line with the IMF memorandum, the government has resorted to this non-popular measure, taking into account first and foremost two elements. The first element that the price of fuel in Serbia relative to countries in the region is somewhere at the average level, I will give you data from my colleague Zivkovic, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that the price set at this point in Serbia is set at some level that is still falling on the market and that the cumulatively observed measure of introducing this excise, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the expected decline should not occur. I will read to you, without wanting to scare it in any way, prices, for example, for gas – BiH – 09.46 euros, Macedonia – 1.013, Bulgaria – 1.028, Hungary – 1.074, Montenegro – 1.080. So these are countries where fuel is cheaper than in Serbia. Serbia – 1.090, Romania – 1.124, Croatia - 1.189, Slovenia – 1.220, Albania – 1.230, Greece – 1.428, these are countries where Serbia compares from the point of view of the Association of Oil Companies of Serbia. These are data from their site that are updated to 9 and 12. Excuse me, one more sentence. The average price of gasoline in the region is 1,129 euros. In Serbia 1,090 and 96.53% of the average price, respectively. I understand all your objections. I understand populism. I understand the opportunities you now have to say – and where the salaries are in Serbia and where they are in Greece or in another country. But gasoline, or oil, is nothing but a stock market product and the price of crude oil is de facto equal for all of these countries in the region, and you just have to understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42458	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. You've exceeded your time, Mr. Minister, but I've calculated that you've been reading the data. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42459	Replica, Mr. Chairman. Nowhere in the economy, nowhere in the world compares and the price of fuel depends on the country's average salary. Nowhere. It can only compare to asking for the price of fuel, to tie to the amount of pay only the ignorant and the populist. Mr. Antic, what's the average salary in the Emirates? So much that the price of fuel per litre should be one ten dollars. But she's in the Emirs $.46 a liter. Therefore, this comparison of basic earnings and fuel prices, absolutely does not stand. On the other hand, that the amendment promoter, those who have so far said, were guided by the logic of the citizens' standard of living, so why, gentlemen, by 2008, did you raise the price of electricity for households 690%. So why did you gentlemen raise the price of electricity for the economy from 2000 to 2008 by 810%? Cumulative. It's okay, you need to surrender and it is for surrender. It can't be explained, it can't be justified. Where was your populism back then? What was the average salary at the time? Why didn't you take care of the citizens and the economy then? Six hundred ninety percent of you raised the price of electricity. Eight hundred ten per cent for the economy and you didn't care, and now you're binding the price of fuel, according to the minister, a stock market product for the average salary. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42460	On what basis, Mr. Zivkovic? He has three amendments, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I am one of them. ) I cannot know who has the right to reply, only the mention of the amendment promoter must be mentioned your name and name. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I will help you, all three are right. That, according to your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to do so. Because I can only find an opportunity in my Rules of Procedure when your name and name are mentioned to know which of you three has the right He's mentioned. [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How did you give him the replica?]] (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: Who mentioned him? I don't want to convince myself that way with you. Maybe I am rusting from the bottom of the snake, I am as simple as Mr. Bozovic, who I repeat, says about his colleague – not anymore, but rather stupid. Perhaps I am rusting from the bottom of the snakes, perhaps I am as simple as Mr. Bozovic writes on "tweeter", but I must strictly respect the Rules of Procedure and give you my word when you have the right to do so. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42461	Thank you, Chairman. You've injured Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, which says that if the chairman wishes to participate in the search, leaves the presidency to one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly. So now you're from that place talking about who's writing on social media, what does that have to do with the chairmanship... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42462	I thank you, Mr. Djurisic (Marco Djurisic: I ask you to finish. I can't let you. If you're using the Rules of Procedure to replicate, I can't let you. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I am not replicating, I am talking about that... () Replicate. (Marko Djurisic, from the place:...) You abuse the Rules of Procedure to comment on social networks while you preside. ) Mr. Djurishic, you may feel that it is okay to insult fellow Members of the National Assembly. I just gave Mr. Zivkovic an explanation and didn't participate in the debate. If you think so, the assembly will be in voting day... (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Can you turn on my microphone? Sir, I've now explained what I have to explain to the Rules of Procedure. Also, do you want... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No, I didn't explain it to you. ( ) Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? Yes, thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. He's not in the O.R. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. He's not in the O.R. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42463	Mr. Minister, unfortunately, you will remain remembered as the man who reduced pensions, salaries and increased excise duties in Serbia. It's something that I assume throughout your professional life will mark you with the citizens of Serbia. We've had such ministers before, but the way you, according to Minister Antic, are tabling public finances, it is destroying Serbian citizens' finances. This way you want to fill an empty register because the economy is not working, because you predict that public enterprises do not have profits like before is completely unacceptable for the DS and all citizens of Serbia and that Mr Antic is not populism. It is a socially responsible state that puts citizens first of all into the focus of the state, not the country in the focus of the citizens. You don't exist here for the state, but the state exists for the citizens. So what you plan to do, the citizens of Serbia need to know. It's not just a fuel collection. Everyone in Serbia knows that fuel collection causes a chain reaction to the collection throughout the economy, later and consumption. Mr. Finance Minister, do you know since the oil is today, do you know since it's sugar? One year ago the price of oil was 105 dinars, today 145 a year ago the price of sugar was 50 dinars, today it's 70. Who's gonna pay for that more? To that end, we're going to increase the fuel price now. Says the Minister of Mining and Energy – populistism is if we talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42464	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42465	The next is likely to be less driving, and whatever they're driving. If they don't drive safer... You just gave the minister four minutes to talk, and you interrupted me in a second while I was talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42466	Mr. Sutanovac, I just interrupted you for two minutes and 30 seconds. I didn't interrupt you, I just warned it was time for you to have the opportunity to finish your sentence and conclude your discussion. I think that's okay, Mr. Sutanovac, and the minister has his own time to take away. If time goes by, his time is taken away from the total time of 180 minutes, unlike you who don't have any more time of Parliament group and can't be taken away from your time. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: How much longer does the minister of time have? I'll check now, Mr. Djurisic, and you'll get exactly how much time the minister has. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42467	Mr. Chairman, I'm advocating a violation of Rule 106. I'm really confused right now, because I thought we were here discussing a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. Since SNS and I personally follow each amendment and I here by reading this amendment, which is currently speaking – in addition to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Encouragement Act in Agricultural and Rural Development, Article 1 paragraph 1 is deleted, and such an amendment was signed by Col. Comic and fellow Sutanovac. What law are we discussing here? What about incentives or excises? Are the promoters so confused, they don't even know what law they're giving amendments to? I don't know what this is about. What law are we discussing here? Does the Act of Accises or the Law of Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development? The fact that amendment promoters are confused or do not know what or what they are signing is already more about them, but I ask you not to abuse the speaker of the National Assembly and to talk about the points of the agenda, and now it is on the agenda of the Act of Accises, not the Law on Encouragements in Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42468	Mr. Babic, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (No) I thank you. Mrs. Comic, you picked up? (Gordana Comić, from the post: To explain by amendment. ) Mrs. Comic, my question is only because of the order, since I have one number of elected MPs. Are you in the Rules of Procedure or by amendment? (Gordana Comić, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. As a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42469	It doesn't apply to you, you haven't hurt yourself, unless, in an injury to the chairman, you consider that a coordinated committee's work is being taken into account. Because the amendment in this text cannot enter the feast unless it has been approved and voted by the Committee, the parent committee, in this case by the Finance Committee. So it's not about you, it's about the overall context in which the amendments are brought, because this amendment had an amendment for formal reasons, but the correction didn't reach the tide. It was on the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and was voted on an amendment with a correction. So I'm saying it's not directly the president's fault, it's not the chairman's fault at all. In this way, as we make the budget, it is very easy to correct the amendments for formal reasons, but not to go through this in such a written part. If you wish to reject the amendment, I have no objection, but it is an explanation – the amendment cannot appear until at least two committees have passed, and until such committees have decided that it is either in accordance with the Constitution, or it is rejected from the Rules of Procedure, or it is notified that it is in accordance with the Constitution and is proposed not to be accepted by the Proposer. This amendment has passed. There's a correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42470	As you said, Mrs. Comic, I did not violate the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. I thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42471	Chairman, I think you've in some way hurt Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, because I believe that at least if you did not interrupt Mr Babic, you should have given an explanation and said the MPs had 24, 48 hours to read 2000 pages, to write amendments, to submit amendments. So, it's not about any ignorance, it's not about anything, it's about permutation and that permutation, as Mrs. Comic explained, it's even been corrected, it hasn't reached the board, etc. So, I don't think this is right to challenge the work of MPs who have given the amendment with the best intentions. Perhaps it could have appeared, the board could have challenged it, but I think you should have pointed out that to Mr. Babic when he advertised the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42472	I thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. I decided to try to refrain from giving information and explanations, because it's an interpretation that I'm involved in the debate. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. I thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Babic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42473	Article 104. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman. Here, now we've seen that it's not actually the signatories of the wrong amendment to the wrong law, it's the committee. Mr. Arsic, please accept this guilt for those who are unable to accept responsibility for signing something that is wrong. I could understand the amendment's proposings that they stood up and said – we were wrong at speed, at anything. It's okay, it's happening, I understand. But to transfer responsibility to the Finance Committee, he's also running away from responsibility. Imagine the situation, Mr. Becic, that Mr. Pitiæ... Marko Djurisic, from the scene: What does this have to do with anything? And he can talk? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42474	I'll explain, Mr. Djurishic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42475	... If you ask him - why did you sign the contract for Heterland and transfer and embezzle more than one million euros in cash from the people of Vojvodina, and he says - you know, I only had 24 hours for that contract, understand me, I had a little time. There's no excuse, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42476	Well done, Mr. Bozovic. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain now and ask Mr. Babic... Don't throw it away, Mr. Bozovic. Then you'll say you didn't throw it away again. Please, Mr. Sutanovac, have patience. I would ask MPs, Mrs Comic and Mr Janko Veselinović, to, since I had the understanding and to tolerate them breaking the Rules of Procedure and to say something that did not apply to the Rules of Procedure, i.e. using the Rules of Procedure and something that did not apply to my violation of the Rules of Procedure, as they themselves said in the end that I did not harm the Rules of Procedure, I gave that possibility to Mrs. Komic and Mr. Janko Vesenović, I did not interrupt them... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: "Not me." Please, Mr. Djurishich, listen to me. So, since I gave Mrs. Comic the opportunity to speak for two minutes and Mr. Veselinović to speak for two minutes, I had to give at least one MP on this side to say what he wanted in two minutes. I may have made a mistake in all three cases, but... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: He spoke for the first time, he four times.) Please, Mr. Sutanovac, please. Here, if I could read to you again a member of the Rules of Procedure, that because of what you're doing, I would have to warn you. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Why? Because you're getting from a place, what you're saying, and I didn't give you my word. Here, let me read it one more time. Article 109. - the warning is made to the MP who approached the speaker without permission of the President of the National Assembly, who speaks before he has received and asked for a word, which is, in your case, so, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, talking about a question that is not on the agenda, if he interrupts the speaker in the statement or throws it away, which is also in your case, that he is, in any other way, obstructing the freedom of speech, that he is directly addressing another MP, etc. And what Mr. Bozovic said, if he uses curses and offensive expressions. So that's all the groundwork for a reminder, which I as chairman must say. So I'm asking you not to do it anymore, so I don't have to respect the Rules of Procedure. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. You must wait, Mr. Bozovic, to finish with Mr. Sutanovac. Now at this point I'm asking, on what basis do you want to answer? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42477	Mr. Chairman, Article 107. First, let me ask you, since you're explaining to us all the time, how did you calculate that two MPs of the opposition came forward, and once, Mr Babic, when Mr Babic came forward first, and then the last one came forward? So when Mr. Babic calls twice, it's not once. How is it possible that when someone points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, they hurt the Rules of Procedure? Why do you allow the breach of the Rules of Procedure to be mentioned by the president of the Democratic Party, Mr Bojan Pajtic? You don't think we can mention Mr. Alexander Wolfich, the man who destroyed the country? The tracks will remain for decades.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42478	I'm not going to let you break the Rules of Procedure like this anymore. I'm taking five minutes off. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Do you, Mr. Jovanovic, want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42480	Mr. Becic, I think it is obvious to you that several MPs have reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that it is your obligation to give them your word before you give me, which I have been declared to speak of the amendment. Or don't you know that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42481	Miss Jerkov, I've never reported anyone in my system. We had a break. After the break, we continued our work. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I'm afraid it's a lie, Mr. Becic. ) We cannot in the meantime break the Rules of Procedure, so you have received a word on the amendment you submitted to Article 1. If you'd like to speak, please. If not, let's move on to the next amendment. Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I'm afraid it's a lie, Mr. Becic. ) The MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Dusan Petrovic, magistrate of Dr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 1st amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42482	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I'm advertising a 107 with regard to dignity, and above all, I'm trying to defend my fellow MP. I think I have the right to do that, since you've been trying to deny me this for several hours, which is why you say that I said something about Mr. Babic, you said it was in the stenogram, and at that point Mr. Babic was supposed to say, as you just said in the stenogram, and he had a microphone on, not someone in my environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42483	I thank you, Mr. Bozovic. I just said, just before, when I quoted, among other things – not as Mr. Bozovic who utters curses in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. Yesterday you said to the minister: “You're lying! “ And as you spoke to Mr. Babic and said not to quote what Mr. Babic said, you threw it away, and everyone who was at the chair table, not only Igor Becic but also the deputy secretary, you said, “It’s not saying anything, but it’s saying stupid. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” This was directed to Mr Babic, who at that time told – what more. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? Yeah. I thank you. But I wish we didn't have to read this anymore, what you said, where we have a few witnesses at the chair. I understand it's a disgrace to you now, but when someone's ashamed to say something, then apologize. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42484	Article 27, Mr. Becic. I think taking care of the application of this Rules of Procedure would make it a lot easier for you to stop making it up. I believe that you believe that the word of you and the deputy secretary is a little more important than the word...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42485	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Maybe you weren't at that moment in the O.R. You may not have heard what Mr. Bozovic said, but we at the chair heard it because he threw it. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: and we didn't hear who we were sitting here.) You weren't in the O.R. maybe, Miss Jerkov. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city, you make that up. And that's not true. Now you're throwing it at me. I give you a warning. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: only you know how to do it.) ) Goran Bogdanovic, applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42486	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the People, dear ministers. Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like the MPs to sit down and not stand by to listen to reason. But no matter what, the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group – Boris Tadic risks being accused of being a populist...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42487	Please, Mr. Markovic, allow Mr. Bogdanovic to complete the exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42488	... but we have not been discouraged by this fact and we have submitted an amendment to Article 1, which reads in paragraph 2, "54,00 din/lit" is replaced by the words "52,50 din/lit"; paragraph 3 is deleted and paragraph 5 is amended as follows: "In point 1), point (2) is deleted. “ What made us endure such an amendment? First of all, the increase in excise duty on gas oils to 54 dinars per litre is considered both absolute and relatively high, and the amendment proposes that the increase be identical to the increase in excise duty on unleaded gasoline. The legislator foresees a solution that represents an additional blow to industry and makes the position of consumers very difficult, especially when it comes to heating, by changing the amount of excise duty in the middle of the heating season. In this regard, we propose an amendment solution that should prevent such effects. Not to say what our paying power is, how Serbian citizens live. I think that this amendment submitted by the Social Democratic Party – Boris Tadic, Mr. Minister, should be accepted, not because of us as MPs, but primarily because of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42489	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanovic. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, do not worry that you will be remembered badly by the citizens of Serbia because you are being attacked by representatives of the former regime, when inflation while they ruled was 12-15%, when the euro jumped at least 10 dinars each year, when you were able to raise a loan to the Commercial Bank in dinars with 30% interest, when you were able to raise a loan to the Commercial Bank...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42491	Mr. Arsic, are you talking about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42492	I'm talking about the amendment, how it won't have any negative consequences for the citizens and I'm making a comparison. ... with a foreign exchange clause of 12-15%.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42493	You can't talk like that, Arsic. Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42494	Don't have a dilemma that we'll all have the same amendment on all members. The amendment reads "is deleted". For what reason? For the first time, I have submitted this kind of amendment, because we feel that you no longer have the right to drag your hand into the pocket of Serbian citizens and to solve your state and public finances with it. Solve public finances in a different way. It's not populism. If there are those here who say to themselves they're peasants, they should say they're going to hit this on the peasant, on the workers and on the civil servants and on the clerks and on everyone. For us, Mr. Antic, it's not populism. For us, it's a real life, which is getting harder and harder and worse and worse. You were just talking about how much fuel prices are in the environment, and I'm going to tell you something else now. The participation of public taxes in the flow retail price. Do you know how much participation in Serbia's state is in the price? So, 59%, the largest in the region. Look at me, go ahead, here, I've got the data. It's not made up. Do you have any idea how much participation there is in the liquid oil gas? So, 78%. Next up, Hungary is 67%. It's in the tables, too. Don't think we don't have those tables. The tables are one thing, you live in a world that's moved. I see you're living in Twitter now. Now there's some life out there, so we're following it at the same time, and the citizens won't have the money to survive the winter, that's populism for you. It's not for us. We think it's the most important thing in the country. You can't run the country like this anymore. Over the past three years, you have raised all taxes that exist in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42495	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42496	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42497	I haven't interrupted you, but this amendment you submitted speaks of alcohol, not oil derivatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42498	It's completely irrelevant, I'm talking about the whole law. (Marian Risticevic, from the city: He was forced by alcohol. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42499	You can't, Mr. Sutanovac, in particular by the amendment you've submitted to talk about the whole law. You can only talk about that amendment. I expect you've been a long MP, you've been a minister to learn that. (Marian Risticevic, from Becicu, he was forced to talk about oil. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42500	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42501	Why now? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: directly offended me. Who offended you? (Dragan Šutanovac, from the place: Marijan Risticevic directly insulted me, threw me away. Nobody had a word, sir. (Dragan Sutanovac, from the place: Marijan Risticevic gave it to me. Please, who threw it to you? (Dragan Šutanovac, from town: Marijan Rističević. ) (Marian Risticevic, from the city: Me? I threw it to you. Here's Mr. Risticevic tossing something to me. Here, you're entitled to a replica, I really didn't hear it, and if I'd heard it, I'd have warned him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42502	Mr. Becic, a member of the 107th Dignity of the Assembly has been injured. I don't feel like an alcoholic, but if you're an alcoholic and he threw it to you, I accept that I apologize to you. Here, just tell me the public to hear, are you an alcoholic or was he trying to insult me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42503	Mr. Sutanovac, whoever knows me knows I haven't had a drop of alcohol in my life.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42504	So he wanted to insult me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42505	If that's what's in the rocks, then I'm sure it wasn't meant to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42506	So, Mr. Becic, I beg you, I understand it's too late, I understand you're tired, but I ask you to lead this session the way it should be run. And if anyone here is trying to insult us, I said the other day, I wasn't raised to answer that way, but you're here to stop it. So, calling a fellow alcoholic who's interested in that on alcohol excise is something that's completely inappropriate. Unbound from whether I consume or not, and you know...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42507	Mr. Schutanovac...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42508	Please, I'm not finished. Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42509	Please, if you'll allow me just one sentence and then proceed. Mr. Risticevic is very close to the officials who run the steno-books, so it's impossible if it's said that the officers didn't hear it. So we've got plenty of time, please, just let me say this and then you go on. We'll have plenty of time to get notes in about 15 minutes. Here, I promise you now, if it's spoken...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42510	Now we're going to transfer the responsibility to two women who work here in the Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42511	Please, let me finish. No, they have to do professionally their job and if it's spoken of it exists in steno notes like it's been in thousands of times so far. If it's spoken at the same time...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42512	No, I don't want...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42513	Here, I'm just making a promise, so, you have to let me finish my sentence till the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42514	So how long does this sentence take?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42515	But why can't you let me, why won't you let me? I'm making you a promise that I now pronounce. If that's what Marijan Risticevic said at the same time, he will receive a warning. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42516	No, I don't. I do not want the fate of women who work as officers of the Assembly to depend on me, I will withdraw this objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I think it's totally inappropriate what you're telling me. They heard the MPs here. If I didn't trust the MPs the people chose, you'd put those women in a position that they had to... And who's their boss in this assembly, sir, should I ask you? If the boss is sitting next to you. So, I don't have one moment, nobody from the DS has offended anyone, not one moment, and just before you accused Mr....
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42517	Mr. Sutanovac, I have to shut you down, but it's been three minutes, and I've been counting on what I've been saying. Three minutes passed, I included what I took from you. Mr. Sutanovac, I fully believe and I want to believe and I am absolutely certain that the National Assembly officials are doing their job professionally and that they are not interested when something is said in the Hall of the Assembly, a great hall as the esteemed colleague says, I am absolutely sure that they write the truth and will never hide the truth that has been spoken in the great hall of the National Assembly. I've seen many times in the steno-books and what was not in favor of the government and what was said was not in favor of the opposition and it was spoken. I think I'm doing enough as president. I'm sorry, but you have to understand, there's a lot of noise on both sides, and I was certainly directed to communicate with you, and I didn't hear what was said, if spoken on this side. I mean, that's enough of what I said that if Mr. Risticevic said what you say he said, and I'm sure I'll see it in the rocks, he'll be warned. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42518	No, I said I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42519	I thank you then, but you will be informed whether it is spoken whether or not you want me to keep the promise and punish Mr Risticevic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42520	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103, 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You can take the stenogram and check, I didn't mention anyone's name. My comment was, the alcohol made him talk about oil, and I turned to the chairman in his direction. Whoever identified himself in that comment, it's not up to me, it's up to whoever recognized me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42521	Mr. Risticevic, I give you a warning about the insult of any colleague in this room. If you claim not to be directed to any of your colleagues, I don't think you should address your colleagues in the large National Assembly room. No matter who you say it to, whether it's me, Mr. Sutanovac or any of your colleagues in this room. You can pick up as many calls as you want, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42522	I'm advocating members 108 and 109. I am the First People's Messenger to receive a warning of insult to any MP. Mr. Chairman, that is the measure your Rules of Procedure have given you in 108 and 109 does not give you the right to give it to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42523	Don't have a dilemma that we'll all have the same amendment on all members. The amendment reads "is deleted". For what reason? For the first time, I have submitted this kind of amendment, because we feel that you no longer have the right to drag your hand into the pocket of Serbian citizens and to solve your state and public finances with it. Solve public finances in a different way. It's not populism. If there are those here who say to themselves they're peasants, they should say they're going to hit this on the peasant, on the workers and on the civil servants and on the clerks and on everyone. For us, Mr. Antic, it's not populism. For us, it's a real life, which is getting harder and harder and worse and worse. You were just talking about how much fuel prices are in the environment, and I'm going to tell you something else now. The participation of public taxes in the flow retail price. Do you know how much participation in Serbia's state is in the price? So, 59%, the largest in the region. Look at me, go ahead, here, I've got the data. It's not made up. Do you have any idea how much participation there is in the liquid oil gas? So, 78%. Next up, Hungary is 67%. It's in the tables, too. Don't think we don't have those tables. The tables are one thing, you live in a world that's moved. I see you're living in Twitter now. Now there's some life out there, so we're following it at the same time, and the citizens won't have the money to survive the winter, that's populism for you. It's not for us. We think it's the most important thing in the country. You can't run the country like this anymore. Over the past three years, you have raised all taxes that exist in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42524	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42525	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42526	I haven't interrupted you, but this amendment you submitted speaks of alcohol, not oil derivatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42527	It's completely irrelevant, I'm talking about the whole law. (Marian Risticevic, from the city: He was forced by alcohol. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42528	You can't, Mr. Sutanovac, in particular by the amendment you've submitted to talk about the whole law. You can only talk about that amendment. I expect you've been a long MP, you've been a minister to learn that. (Marian Risticevic, from Becicu, he was forced to talk about oil. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42529	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42530	Why now? (Dragan Šutanovac: He directly insulted me.) Who offended you? (Dragan Sutanovac: Marijan Risticevic directly insulted me, threw me away.) Nobody had a word, sir. (Dragan Sutanovac: Marijan Risticevic gave it to me.) Please, who threw it to you? (Dragan Šutanovac: Marijan Risticevic.) (Marian Risticevic: Me? I threw it to you. Here's Mr. Risticevic tossing something to me. Here, you're entitled to a replica, I really didn't hear it, and if I'd heard it, I'd have warned him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42531	Mr. Becic, a member of the 107th Dignity of the Assembly has been injured. I don't feel like an alcoholic, but if you're an alcoholic and he threw it to you, I accept that I apologize to you. Here, just tell me the public to hear, are you an alcoholic or was he trying to insult me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42532	Mr. Sutanovac, whoever knows me knows I haven't had a drop of alcohol in my life.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42533	So he wanted to insult me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42534	If that's what's in the rocks, then I'm sure it wasn't meant to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42535	So, Mr. Becic, I beg you, I understand it's too late, I understand you're tired, but I ask you to lead this session the way it should be run. And if anyone here is trying to insult us, I said the other day, I wasn't raised to answer that way, but you're here to stop it. So, calling a fellow alcoholic who's interested in that on alcohol excise is something that's completely inappropriate. Unbound from whether I consume or not, and you know...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42536	Mr. Schutanovac...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42537	Please, I'm not finished. Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42538	Please, if you'll allow me just one sentence and then proceed. Mr. Risticevic is very close to the officials who run the steno-books, so it's impossible if it's said that the officers didn't hear it. So we've got plenty of time, please, just let me say this and then you go on. We'll have plenty of time to get notes in about 15 minutes. Here, I promise you now, if it's spoken...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42539	Now we're going to transfer the responsibility to two women who work here in the Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42540	Please, let me finish. No, they have to do professionally their job and if it's spoken of it exists in steno notes like it's been in thousands of times so far. If it's spoken at the same time...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42541	No, I don't want...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42542	Here, I'm just making a promise, so, you have to let me finish my sentence till the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42543	So how long does this sentence take?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42544	But why can't you let me, why won't you let me? I'm making you a promise that I now pronounce. If that's what Marijan Risticevic said at the same time, he will receive a warning. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42545	No, I don't. I do not want the fate of women who work as officers of the Assembly to depend on me, I will withdraw this objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I think it's totally inappropriate what you're telling me. They heard the MPs here. If I didn't trust the MPs the people chose, you'd put those women in a position that they had to... And who's their boss in this assembly, sir, should I ask you? If the boss is sitting next to you. So, I don't have one moment, nobody from the DS has offended anyone, not one moment, and just before you accused Mr....
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42546	Mr. Sutanovac, I have to shut you down, but it's been three minutes, and I've been counting on what I've been saying. Three minutes passed, I included what I took from you. Mr. Sutanovac, I fully believe and I want to believe and I am absolutely certain that the National Assembly officials are doing their job professionally and that they are not interested when something is said in the Hall of the Assembly, a great hall as the esteemed colleague says, I am absolutely sure that they write the truth and will never hide the truth that has been spoken in the great hall of the National Assembly. I've seen many times in the steno-books and what was not in favor of the government and what was said was not in favor of the opposition and it was spoken. I think I'm doing enough as president. I'm sorry, but you have to understand, there's a lot of noise on both sides, and I was certainly directed to communicate with you, and I didn't hear what was said, if spoken on this side. I mean, that's enough of what I said that if Mr. Risticevic said what you say he said, and I'm sure I'll see it in the rocks, he'll be warned. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42547	No, I said I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42548	I thank you then, but you will be informed whether it is spoken whether or not you want me to keep the promise and punish Mr Risticevic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103, 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You can take the stenogram and check, I didn't mention anyone's name. My comment was, the alcohol made him talk about oil, and I turned to the chairman in his direction. Whoever identified himself in that comment, it's not up to me, it's up to whoever recognized me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42550	Mr. Risticevic, I give you a warning about the insult of any colleague in this room. If you claim not to be directed to any of your colleagues, I don't think you should address your colleagues in the large National Assembly room. No matter who you say it to, whether it's me, Mr. Sutanovac or any of your colleagues in this room. You can pick up as many calls as you want, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42551	I'm advocating members 108 and 109. I am the First People's Messenger to receive a warning of insult to any MP. Mr. Chairman, that is the measure your Rules of Procedure have given you in 108 and 109 does not give you the right to give it to anyone. So if I was commenting and I didn't mention anyone's name, maybe I was thinking about someone outside. Maybe I was thinking about someone watching TV. You gave me a warning because I insulted anyone. This is amazing, but I will be proud to carry that warning, because it is not given to the opposition members, but to members of the coalition that supports the RS government. I have no intention of apologizing to anyone because I have not offended anyone, but I have the right to proudly bear this warning. I'm being warned because I insulted any colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42552	Mr. Rističević, you have not offended anyone, you have offended Mr. Dragan Sutanovac, because it was directed to him, the way you said it, the way I'm also going to see that sentence in the stenobelles, I've only hypothetically said it, and if you think you've offended anyone in this room, I think it's an insult that shouldn't be directed to any colleague. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: How do you know it's not true? I wasn't looking at him. Bring the alcometer, no problem. But I don't think you should talk to your colleagues like that. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42553	Without intent, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with no intention of entering any additional polemic tones, I'm just going to read the data. So, Mr. Sutanovac, if Mr. Sutanovac would like me to read him some very precise data yes. So, the participation of excise duty, VAT and other elements that, past the original company average price, take part in the final price of the gas derivatives 56.28%, Euro diesel 55.32%, tng 49.65%, means absolutely accurate data, you have them on the Union website of Serbia's oil company, on the one hand. On the other hand, if the price of gasoline is in the state region, means Romania, Croatia, Slovenia, Albania, Greece, means these five countries if the price of gasoline is more expensive than in Serbia, then it is impossible for VAT and other taxes to be less than in Serbia. So simply, we're here somewhere on the average. I repeat, our retail price of gasoline is 96.53% in terms of countries in the region, as far as that goes. Regarding what the respected former minister was talking about, you have well noticed that there is a slight increase in excise duty on the diesel compared to other derivatives. First of all, for the sake of preparing this law, we took into account that liquid oil gas is no longer competitive at its price, and that many citizens have invested a lot of money...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42554	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42555	... in the equipment to use liquid oil gas, so I've totng the maximum reduction in excise duty, it seems to me to be to 0.16 dinars increased to diesel and you're quite right, but these are the reasons that led us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42556	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42557	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, and this amendment should be rejected for one simple reason. One part of the missing funds from the budget is determined by law and so the state should work, and unlike the former regime that printed money on Topcider, full of money to make up for all possible losses and then they didn't care about Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42558	Thank you. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42559	The subject of this article are excises on alcoholic beverages, which are in the draft of the law, and excises, many raise without a clear explanation of why it is done by the system – give money. Of course, that the excise on alcoholic beverages exist in many countries, so there are also in Serbia and of course it is necessary to bring them into line with the cost of living, inflation and so on, but to raise three, four times without reason that this is part of a major fight against alcoholism or I don't know what, it would be interesting to explain to us, happy ministers who are whispering now, to listen a little to what the MPs say, because being a guest does not mean that you are important. You've been elected by the MPs, so I ask you, Mr. Minister, which is an explanation to raise...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42560	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, so members of the government must have a consultation in the course of the debate, so don't insult the ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42561	... Don't be a government attorney. They have lawyers to defend them when they need them. Therefore, everything I have said is written in the Constitution and our amendment provides for the harmonisation of excise duties by a few percent, what official inflation is in Serbia. If you lack money for the budget, raise your ore rent, not excise on fuel, let him pay that brother's "Gasprom" as much as he pays in Russia, here in Serbia, and it will be three times more full of your budget, than you will fill it with excise duties for fuel prices, at the highest price in the whole region, regardless of the wrong and completely wrong data given to us by the competent ministers. So if you're bored in parliament, there's a way out of here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42562	The word has Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vice-President, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister, Mr. Mijailovic, we are against increasing excise duties on alcoholic beverages as suggested by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There are several reasons why we are against it, and it is first and foremost that we have noticed that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it seems, Mr. Bečić, there is no such kind of consultation that you are talking about, because we, respected gentlemen here in the National Assembly, have discussed and adopted the Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks, when Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic told us by no signal that in her announcement she was raising excises on alcoholic beverages. Wasn't that a good time to hear some announcement by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that this would be the case by raising excise duties on alcoholic beverages. It was a good bill and we voted in favour of that bill, but there was no announcement of this. Then what do I conclude, Mr. Sertice? Here's Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Mrs Bogosavljevic, you did not tell us to raise excise duties on alcoholic beverages, when we passed the law on strong alcoholic beverages here, and now the debate on the draft budget law also comes up. I then conclude, no planning, no synchronised work in the government of RS. If there is no synchronised work, then it means honored gentlemen that there is confusion...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42564	Would you like to do the amendment now, Mr. Pavicevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42565	Well, it's an amendment, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42566	I hear you're just expressing dissatisfaction with government members, insulting government members, but I don't see you talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42567	It's not thanks I have eight seconds left. What do you mean, Mr. Becic? This has never been anything you've done today. I'm told by all experienced parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42568	How can I never interrupt Mr. Zivkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42569	Well, you interrupt me, too, Mr. Zivkovic, Mr. Bozovic, Mrs. Jerkov, seven warnings in one amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42570	I'm not interrupting Mr. Zivkovic, because he's 90 percent of his time talking about the amendment. They don't go every day, they don't leave the MPs' group, Mr Pavicevic. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dragan Sutanovac. Here's a word for Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42571	If you allow only at the beginning, Minister Antic, what you've read is all before the excise, right? Before the excise increase. That participation you've given it is before increasing excise duties and that's what's good, but you're increasing. Will you tell me, seeing as you're working with data that, we don't think are accurate, but come on, you know, maybe better, and in which country it collects fuel this year? What country collects fuel when the price of oil goes below $20 a barrel? Under $20 a barrel goes the price. Well, it's going to be that way. Let me concentrate specifically on this amendment. Regardless of perhaps the desire to fight alcoholism, increase the excise duty on beer, low alcoholic beverages, I don't know if you have any awareness that it's some people in Serbia only more that they can afford a glass of beer or a bottle of beer, because they can't go to theatre, cinema, neither going out, nor dinner, let's also ban them for glory, to celebrate fame? People, regardless of the story of how much electricity has been accumulated since 2000, from 2000 to 2012, 1,900% of the salary has been increased. A thousand and nine hundred percent. (Zoran Babic, from the place: How much? How much? Don't get laid, that's true. (Zoran Babic, from the place: What is this? With 20 euros... (Zoran Babic, from the place: What is this? How's it going? So look what a man does, please look. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Tell me what this is? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42572	Mr. Sutanovac, I'm trying really hard not to interrupt you, because I keep complaining about interrupting you, not letting you talk. You keep breaking the Rules of Procedure, don't talk about the subject, don't talk about your amendments. Here, I tried not to interrupt you and let you speak out of your amendment to the end. But other MPs do not allow it, they rightly defie and warn me that I am in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Sutanovac, from the scene, just a second. ) I ask you, please, to help me finish this debate, to try all the common positions and the opposition to talk about the amendments that have been submitted, to make arguments why these amendments should be accepted, that on the other hand we have arguments why not, and in the day to vote. I ask you, Mr. Sutanovac, not to be to me as chairman, and today any chairman had the same problem, someone more, someone less, but it turns out that only we are the chairman, and the MPs are right. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Let's communicate. Only if I can hold it for a second? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42573	Mr. Becic, we are only subject to this law and amendments. I said at the beginning we're giving the amendments "wipe out" at all. It means everything. For what? Because we don't think they should increase the pressure on the citizens of Serbia. If someone's talking on the other hand about how much electricity it cost from 2000 to 2008, I'm asking you to sanction it, because it's certainly not the subject of this law, understand? And when I say the salary has been raised from 20 euros to... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42574	That's enough, Mr. Shooter. Mr. Babice, on what basis are you answering for a word? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: You're still asking me on what basis? I have to ask because he has to enter the notes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42575	I know that Mr. Sutanovac is so arrogant, as he normally behaves, that he would expect something similar from me. No, he won't live to see it, I won't insult it. I've been raised too well to insult. I understand Mr. Shutanovec. He's a little nervous. You know, by calling him back to the gym to work, to be there, to do his job for which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia pay him, so he's a little nervous when he has to work at 15 to 12 in the evening, but I'm going to answer you Mr. Chairman. We're changing excises. We're increasing excise duties. And you know why, Mr. Becic? Do you know why ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament? (Marco Atlagic, from town: For pastures. No, the pasture is paid, finished. We're doing this to correct the mistakes of Dragan Sutanovac. We are doing this because Dragan Sutanovac did not coordinate pensions with military pensioners and because these people in January of what Dragan Sutanovac did not pay them, we now have to pay them out of this budget, from these funds everyone called Dragan Sutanovac, who will not have for a glass of beer at their glory, all of whom Dragan Sutanovac told us to drag our hands into the pockets of Serbian citizens, there is no place in those pockets, because in those pockets are the hands of Bojan Pajtic. We have increased excise duties, we will increase excise duties to correct the mistakes of Dragan Sutanovac for what he has committed against the military pensioners, because he has not paid them anything for years, because he has not adjusted their pensions, because this Government of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and this Government of the Republic of Serbia are correcting his mistakes. That's why we increased the excise. Therefore, Dragan Sutanovac is the last man in this room to criticise the decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42576	Time. Thank you. The word has been sent by the people, Dragan Sutanovac, a two-minute replica for mentioning the name and last name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42577	Thank you. Here, today you threw me that when I pointed my finger at the gentleman across from me not to threaten him, you told me today, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42578	I didn't tell you then. Mr. Zoran Babic misunderstood. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I hold a pen. You may have done what you say, but at that point, I didn't give... (Zoran Babiæ, from the scene: Mr. Becic I held a pen. Let me, Mr. Granny. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I hold a pen. A pen. If Mr. Sutanovac is afraid of pens... Mr. Granny, let me explain. Mr. Sutanovac, I'm not today when I said what you said based on Mr. Babic's remarks that you pointed your finger at him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42579	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42580	That you did what Mr. Babic said. I said you didn't have to because you came to the chair and you made some threats and I answered you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42581	I can't hear you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42582	Well, it's not worth it if you can't hear me...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42583	So look what they're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42584	It's not worth it, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42585	Arsic, come on, be quiet. We can't hear the chairman. Veroljub Arsic, from the place: What is it? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42586	It's not worth it, Mr. Sutanovac, those threats referred to the president's threats, and Mr. Babic now holds a pen in his hands, no finger, so he doesn't point at you, so I don't know what to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42587	Can I just explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42588	Here, you have a two-minute line, I ask you to use the replica and replicate Mr. Babic and tell him everything you have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42589	What Serbian citizens need to know, and this distinguished colleague who spoke on the other hand a little while ago, that since 2012 he obviously does not know, has increased all taxes and all interventions from citizens... Janko, let me ask you a little bit? (Janko Veselinović, from the place: Sorry. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42590	I beg you, Mr. Veselinović, let Mr. Sutanovac finish at last, here's two minutes and 18 seconds and he won't start talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42591	So all the procedures paid by Serbian citizens are increased. The hands are in empty pockets. Since 2012, VAT from 18% to 20%. Profit tax from 10 to 15%. Guys, a citizen can't take it anymore. He can't. It can't happen that the oil collects 40 dinars without the peasant having none of it, or sugar. On military pensioners, that's true. I accept part of the responsibility for the bad decision of the government that I've been sitting in. Why part of it? Because in 2012, the Constitutional Court ruled after our Government in 2012, and we wait 2016 for Aleksandar Vucic to pay for it. For four years, we've been waiting for him to pay for something that could've been paid back in 2012. Why isn't it 2012? So, Constitutional Court, if we could raise our pensions to all pensioners, if we could get our annual pension back as much as it is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42592	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42593	How many now, how do you know?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42594	I know because at one, in a minute and 45 seconds, you started talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42595	If we could get our annual pension back, then it could've been worth that 50-60 grand... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42596	The People's MP Zoran Babic has the right to reply. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I didn't mention him once.) But how could you not, Mr. Schutanovac? I wish you hadn't, because that would cover this circle of replicas and give the word to Minister Dusan Vujovic, but you said, Mr. Sutanovac, that Mr. Babic, speaking his name and name, pointed his finger at you. Unfortunately, you mentioned his name and last name and as you received the right to reply to the mention of your name and last name, so did Mr Babic. I ask all MPs not to speak the word of their colleagues so that these colleagues may not have the right replica. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42597	I thank you, Mr. Becic. I don't know what to say about a man who's afraid of a pen. What if I had just brought the tablet, the RS computer, the panic would have been likely. It just went well for someone to look in the mirror once, so they say - I accept the responsibility that as a former military minister I did not pay my pensions to military pensioners and I could see it as a quality step and I would commend it. But what happened in the next sentence is that Alexander Vukic and the SNS government made an agreement with military pensioners, which will be paid off by 2012 and, imagine, we are responsible, and not responsible for those who made the debt. Well, even when the Constitutional Court forced them to do the wrong thing. Well, what logic is that, please? Well, they say, you've increased everything. Well, of course, well, everything has been increased to pay a billion and 300m euros in interest in 2016 on the debts you made, on the loans you took. Well, you didn't care how much interest there was, so you took 7% interest and 8% on short-term loans. There's no logic in the economy, no math, nothing at all. Well, that's why we have to do these things, as we do them, to correct the mistakes of the past and never again in the future any generation comes into this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42598	Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. I was misread. He can't, Mr. Schutanovac. Unfortunately, he can't. If he mentioned your name and name, I'd be happy to give it to you. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Well, I'm misread.) ) It is not enough, Mr. Sutanovac, especially in such a difficult debate, anyone today could say that he was misread and that if we were to begin to give replicas, where the end would be. You must understand, Mr. Sutanovac. Please report after the next amendment. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42599	Thank you very much. In order not to get the wrong impression that the intensity of this discussion is proportional to the proposed increase in excise duties, I will read briefly, that our viewers know what the work is about. In beer, the increase is from 23.04 dinars, as far as 24 dinars are now, which is 96 pairs per liter of beer, that's 48 pairs per bottle of beer. In low-alcohol drinks, it's from 20.35 dinars to 21 dinars, that's 65. In other strong alcoholic beverages, it's an increase from 198 to 203, it's five dinars, and in whiskeys, which drink rare people, it's seven dinars per litre, from 309 to 316. Finally, in brandy, the increase is two dinars per litre, from 121.89 to 124. For us, the increase is significant. For us, this income is significant, since it fills the structural side of income that we are obliged to because of those failures from the past and because of the obligations we accept ourselves by failing to reduce those subsidies that we planned to reduce, and it seems to me to consumers that these amounts, even for those whose income is very limited, are 0,96 dinars per bottle of beer, 48 pairs per bottle of beer, are really not worth this much intensity of the debate. Otherwise, this is minimally over a regular indexation that should be 1.4-1.6%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42600	The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Gordana Komic and Dragan Sutanovac together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42601	You told me earlier that I could only explain what I was looking for. So the Constitutional Court ruled for military pensioners after leaving the former government, so we weren't able to pay for it. Mr. Vujovic, can you just pay me two minutes' attention, explain a few things to me? For you, one dollar a bottle of booze is nothing. We agree, one dollar is nothing. But we have a situation like this, a pensioner who has 20,000 dinars paid 300 dinars a day, that's 10 dinars a day, and you'll take it, you know what, 500 dinars a month for a TV fee. Is that right? The TV fee to be introduced will be 500 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42602	Please, a little after the amendment, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42603	The amendment is about that one dinar. According to the minister - it's nothing, one beer is nothing. Believe me, for people who drink...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42604	Mr. Secretary didn't mention a single dollar, but 64 bucks, if I recall correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42605	I don't want to talk about how much he drinks. I don't drink. Now we're laughing here, it's too late. Minister, that one dinar is a miracle. It pours that drop of glass.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42606	Time. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42607	Mr. Chairman, I'm afraid I don't understand the behaviour of some MPs here. Is now this midnight, the time when they're turning into something else, I don't know. I see it's been too long. But what Mr Sutanovac did earlier, which is that he humiliated the dignity of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that he humiliated all pensioners in Serbia, because he calculated them to drink 10 bottles of beer a day. I really don't know a pensioner who can drink 10 bottles of beer a day, so 30 days, so he spends an increase in pensions. I don't know how much experience a fellow Sutanovac has and how much he can carry. That's enough, he's physically strong, thank God, and he's 100 years old, but you're humiliating the pensioners. I can believe that pensioners will spend an increase in pensions to help their children, their grandchildren, that they may improve their health care, maybe some extra medicine or whatever, but what Mr. Sutanovac said, that pensioners will spend an increase on beer, and that 10 bottles a day, please, so that demeans all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking you not to do that in the future. My mother's a pensioner. Well, am I supposed to think that she's going to spend her pension increase, and a woman's drop of alcohol in her life hasn't been drinking, that she's going to spend ten bottles of beer a day, as Mr. Sutanovac said? Do not speak out of personal experience and spill over to respected pensioners in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42608	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Please, Mr. Sutanovac, I have to explain to Mr. Babic first and ask him if he wants the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day. Mr. Babic, I had Mr. Sutanovec's statement earlier that he didn't drink, and then, when he said it, I thought that Mr. Sutanovac, if he didn't drink, and he doesn't know how many 10 bottles of beer, so I tolerated what Mr. Sutanovac said. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42609	Yeah. Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, have been injured. I never said that pensioners drink so much, nor that anyone drinks 10 bottles of beer a day. You should be ashamed of what you're saying. And my mother's retired, but there's no pension in Vranjska Banja, she doesn't drink any beer a year, and I'm sorry that all this looks funny to you, which is an increase in excise duty funny, an increase in fuel price funny. Everything here has become ridiculous, gentlemen. This isn't funny at all. I'm trying to bring the finance minister closer to the pictures, and otherwise, just so you know, ministers, those 10 bottles of beer will only be able to buy someone who has a big pension, a big pension. Those who have a pension of 15,000 dinars, received an increase of 125 dinars, have neither three, four dinars per day for a kifla.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42610	Thank you. You didn't just tell me why you thought and by what member I hurt the Rules of Procedure? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I said at the beginning.) Article 107) It's okay. I'm just checking to see if I heard correctly, because I have to give you an explanation as per article 107. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you, Mr Babić, I will give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I ask all MPs, this is a very important topic for the citizens of Serbia, this is the 2016 budget of the Republic of Serbia, and I know that this is literally 14 hours from when we work, but we need to understand that it is very important for the citizens of Serbia to hear and explain the budget and the criticism of the budget, to forget the violations of the Rules of Procedure and to return to the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42611	I thank you, Mr. Becic. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 108th and 109th. Mr. Becic, I'm just a moment ago, when I explained the injury to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Becic, I was talking about my mother. Unlike Mr. Sutanovec, who later spoke, he spoke not of his own, but of my mother again. That doesn't make sense. It's a invasion of privacy. That's what separates well and well raised people from those who are not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42612	I understand, Mr. Granny, but I have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42613	Just one sentence. I believe, I don't care, in the words of Mr. Sutanovac, that his mother doesn't have suites, pensions or whatever she said, but that's why her son has, for God's sake, a pretty big building on the pasture, on Vracar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42614	I have to interrupt you, Mr. Granny. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? No, I don't. I thank you. On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text... I'm sorry, Mr. Veselinovic. Mr. Tasovac, you've reached out, but we should, however, have gone in the wrong direction, to hear the amendment's proposals. You'll get the word, but I still think it's okay to hear the amendments first, so the word has Dr. Janko Veseinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42615	I remind only the Minister of Energy, the electricity excise was increased by 7.5 dinars four months ago. This law does not tax fuel, but it can be said that water is taxed. It can be said that water is taxed in Serbia. In Serbia where one quarter of Serbian citizens drink water from artesian wells. Do you know that, Mr. Vujovic? Do you know that, Mr Antic? Do you know, gentlemen ministers, that one quarter of Serbian citizens drink water from artesian wells while the Prime Minister is floating in... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42616	I asked all MPs to return to the agenda and speak of amendments. If you don't want to talk about the amendment you submitted, I can't let you talk. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42617	Thank you. Just one little intervention. One of the previous speakers compared excise duties on alcoholic beverages to the price of public media services and said the tax is 500 dinars. It means he didn't read the law well. Because the law makes it clear that it is a tax, that it is the highest price possible. But even that's a minor problem for me. I have a bigger problem if the price of excise duty is compared to public media services, because then we have a serious problem in the simple value system, so I think it's just an unfortunately chosen parallel and I hope that no one will take what he said seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42618	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42619	I just wanted a mild intervention on a few previous conversations, that is, to get them serious, whether it's an increase in one bottle of beer or 10 bottles of beer. What's the point of the whole story is raising pensions. I have an obligation because of all these people watching us, those 1.7 million pensioners. The point of the whole story is that our finances are finally stabilized and it can be at least a small shift in that increase and we finally have regular safe pensions, and I hope it goes better and that the increase will be even bigger, but I think it's really unserious to say if it's one bottle of beer or 10 bottles of beer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42620	Thank you, Mrs. Petrovic. I'm taking a break. Since MPs, I suppose, want some rest, I'm taking a break. We're going back to work. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: What is the break?]] Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and together Gordana Comić and Dragan Sutanovac. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Veselinović. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. I've already given my word to Mr. Veselinović. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42621	So, please, the chairman, to closely monitor my exposure. So when I say that the water is taxed, I'm going to prove it to you now, so the excise on the water is introduced. Mr. Vujovicu, please follow me well. Thus, the previous Article 12a reads – the excise tax is paid on all types of beer, except for non-alcoholic beer containing up to 0.5% alcohol of 15 dinars per litre. It's being erased. Now, the new member reads – excise on alcoholic beverages, Article 12, etc., below 5) writes – beer 24 dinars. So now it's excise on a non-alcoholic beer. So you've introduced an excise on the water, Mr. Vujovic. No one in the history of the world has ever introduced an excise on water. Article 112a, this will take place in history, Serbian history and world history. You taxed the water, Mr. Vujovic. You've introduced an excise on the water, you've introduced an excise on water and pensioners and people who receive small wages and everyone else. How could you, Mr Vujovic, not to say, how did you let yourself, Mr Vujovic? How could you, Mr. Vujovic, introduce an excise on the water? Did you think at one hour, no one would notice? Is that what you thought, Mr. Vujovic? Gas, beer, low alcohol, water. Mr. Vujovicu, you've introduced an excise on the water.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42622	Time, thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42623	Chairman, I believe that you have injured Article 27, who says the President of the Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. So, the fact that you absolutely have no control over what's going on in the O.R. is entirely your responsibility. The way MPs have been acting in the last hour, the way they've been discussing the topics they're talking about when it's on the agenda, to remind you... (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: There is no reason to turn off my microphone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42624	Well, there's a reason, because I'm not going to let you use a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No, Nikako, let me finish.) ) Just don't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. ) Mr. Djurisic, you are just one of the MPs you are criticising that it does not allow the work of the great Hall of the National Assembly. For an important law on what the budget of the Republic of Serbia is for 2016. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: We are talking about excises for the last hour. The budget is on the agenda, Mr. Chairman. Look. ) Mr Djurisic, the excise duties are following the law of the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2016. Whenever a budget is passed, we have the Excise Act and the Follow-up Laws, if you don't understand it, but I understand because you're not an economist. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: The following law does not exist in the Rules of Procedure as a term. Here, that's my date. I'm sorry if it's not right. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: The following law does not exist, said article 27. Rules of Procedure. It's okay. Mr. Djurisic, we are talking about an important law for Serbian citizens. It's the Excise Act. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: That's right, I ask you to behave in accordance with the applicable law. You act rudely and do not allow the work of the Great Hall of the National Assembly to continue. I give you a warning, Mr. Djurishic. I ask you to allow Mr. Marinkovic to begin the exhibition. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I'm sorry, Mr Marinkovic, I don't know how I interfere with that, I just wanted to use my right to the Rules of Procedure. But not by violating the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djurishic. You speak from the scene, you don't get the word, you throw the rest. (Marco Djurisic, from the post: You cannot address me immediately now, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So I have to give you an explanation and ask you... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You gave me the punishment and you cannot address me. () I was just reminded by my colleague that when you have completed the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I must give an explanation and ask if you wish the Assembly to plead. That's what I'm doing right now. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You gave me a sentence and now you cannot address me. I thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: If someone is rude, it is you.) Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42625	Dear Chairman, I just couldn't get a word in. I think you've broken Article 107 in an eclative way. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly permitting dialogue in this National Assembly to become a personal insult to one of our colleagues and his family. It is simply unacceptable in the high home of the National Assembly to allow such a vocabulary. I ask you in one correct way to bring this session into normal order and into a normal argument... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42626	I beg you, Mr. Marinkovic, that is inadmissible. Mr Marinkovic, it is unacceptable to insult Mr Babic's family, but we have already discussed this and please do not let us go back to it. (Vladimir Marinkovic, from the post: I ask you to complete the exhibition. ( ) Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? Thank you. Yeah. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42627	So this is how Parliamentarian Veselinovic used his elevated tone to say pure untruths. Now I'm going to read you why the citizens of Serbia should know. In Article 2 of the amendment and addition of the Excise Act, it states – in the sense of this law to the alcoholic beverages of Article 1 where they are all listed, all types of beer are considered except, except for, it is excluded, - a non-alcoholic beer containing up to 0,5 alcohol. So, not only non-alcoholic, but also a little alcoholic beer. It's excluded, it's not subject, it's not subject to excise duty. So, all you've built on that, to charge taxes on water is pure fiction. You haven't read the law, you're commenting and you're telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42628	I thank you, Mr. Minister. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42629	Of course, the minister, when there are no arguments, reaches for untruths. Of course this is false and of course the citizens of Serbia will pay excise duty on non-alcoholic beer. That's clearly what it says here, because beer is crossed out in a chapter concerning excise duty on alcoholic beverages was crossed before that beer, excise on alcoholic beverages is a title, and beer is down there without the classification of beer. But there are many other problems here. So, you gentlemen have introduced fuel excises and increased fuel prices in Serbia and now the price of fuel in Serbia is the most expensive in the region and one of the most expensive in Europe. The average salary in Serbia is the lowest in the world of 125 dinars per hour among 154 countries where the wage is the lowest. Mr Vujovicu, is it true that the salary in Serbia is of 125 dinars... (Janko Vesenović, from the city: You turned off my microphone. [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42630	Mr. Veselinovic, so normally when you're not talking about your amendment. (Janko Veselinović, from the town: I speak. Well, don't talk about the amendment. Mr. Veselinović, do you want to read your amendment before I give you my word? (Janko Vesenović, from town: Read it. Every time. Because you don't seem to have written those amendments, you don't know what the amendments you've made say, and you just don't talk about the amendment. I can't interpret it any other way. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, People's MP, Zoran Babic. (Janko Vesenovic, from the place: Why can't I talk about the amendment? Because you're not talking about the amendment, sir. Will you let Mr. Babic speak? (Janko Vesenović, from the place: No Babic can...) I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42631	Mr. Chairman, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 106, and I am completely in agreement with what you just said, because if the amendmentr had actually written these amendments, he would have known the difference between the wages and the captain's, because the wages in Serbia are not 125 dinars or whatever, but the captain's. Did the amendment promoter mean a nickname or a wage or whatever, but that's totally messed up. On the other hand, Mr. Chairman, I ask you with attention, although we are, I don't know in what hour of discussion that we are discussing an amendment that says - Article 5 is deleted. There's no soft beer in Article 5. Does this mean that someone can get a word in and talk about whatever they want, about the benefits, the prices, and I don't know what? I think it's scandalous and I think you need to warn Mr. Janko Veselinovic that he respects this home and respects the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42632	Mr. Babiću, I, for that very reason, and interrupted Mr. Veselinović because he did not speak of his amendment. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. I thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: The Rules of Procedure! ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42633	Mr. Babice, did anyone say any wages or... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42634	Mr. Sutanovac, you didn't say the member you're calling for, and you have to say it. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Did you give me a word by amendment or by the Rules of Procedure? You received a word in the Rules of Procedure, and you did not say a member... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Article 107) I'm begging you now. You speak directly to the People's MP, he can't do that, so thank you. You can only talk about the amendment. All that says is that it's forbidden in the Rules of Procedure what you do. Here, you have the word after the amendment to Article 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42635	Mr. Becic, I'm sorry, I didn't hear what you said. I can't see because of the company's anger...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42636	How did you not hear, Mr. Sutanovac, if you asked for word from the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42637	Well, all the time I'm telling you it's not heard because people talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42638	But, Mr. Sutanovac, did you raise the Rules of Procedure and seek word from the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42639	But you read my amendment, so I thought you gave me the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42640	Okay, let's not explain ourselves, please, you have a word for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42641	I'm sorry that a co-worker from PUPS left the session. Mr. Minister, I have one request for this amendment. Can you come up with a 2008 Regulation that involved increasing pensions and seeing who proposed that regulation and who dropped military pensioners in that regulation? I once said it publicly because I personally respected this man, and I sat with him in government and I was in good relations with him. I've been putting up with it for four years, fifth, sixth, seventh, it doesn't matter. I'm sorry that the PAPS colleagues don't respect the fact that I suffer that their former president has put forward a proposal for that regulation. At our request to give an opinion, they gave the opinion that it was also in accordance with the law of the Ministry of Labour and Employment. So when I said I felt partially guilty a moment ago, it wasn't because the Department of Defense decided whether the pensions were in line, nor did the Ministry of Defence propose a regulation, but the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42642	Mr. Sutanovac, I beg you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42643	I understand everything, but the lady was also talking, and she was talking about military pensions, and no military pensions have anything to do with...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42644	Mr. Sutanovac, I interrupted the lady. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: you are also me.) But, Mr. Sutanovac, not only did you not talk about the amendment, but, as I understood it, and correct me if I misunderstood, you blamed the man who is no longer alive. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I will correct you.) Here you go. I wish I didn't get it right, so I'm giving you a chance to make it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42645	Mr. Chairman, I didn't blame the man, I just said who proposed the regulation. You know, when a man dies, his work doesn't die. So, I'm a gentleman... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42646	Please don't go any further. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42647	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, Rule 106, have been injured. I see some here have a little trouble with saying some words, slogans. I didn't quite understand it earlier when Mr. Sutanovac said that counterpart Mira Petrovic, a respected co-worker from the PUPS, left a session or seedling room. I didn't understand it very well, but the session can't be abandoned, it can be abandoned by the National Assembly. So, I think it's still a little irregular to use certain expressions. What you... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42648	Mr. Granny, I understand what you're trying to say. I can't let you break the Rules of Procedure like that. Please finish your exposure. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: Mr. Becic, please. ) Mr. Babiæ, MPs with the right to care, I cannot allow you to use a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Since the MPs are somehow tired again, they don't allow the work to continue, I'm taking a break. [[After a break.]] I ask the SPS MPs to understand that the session is under way and that they are referring to it. I'm going back to work. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42650	I really apologize to all the MPs in the O.R., especially those I interrupt in the conversation, but this is about excises on alcoholic beverages, and alcoholism is one of the first psychiatric diseases to be treated the least. I think you all know what the problem in Serbia with alcoholism is with very young people, who appear already in children. I think this topic went off in a rather fun way, and I think it's too serious. On the one hand, because that's how the budget needs to be filled, and on the other hand because if we're trying to reduce the excise duty on alcoholic beverages, then I don't think we really think about what's health. It's not just children, the problem is that alcohol has somehow become the most socially acceptable of all addiction diseases. We're actually talking here about the excise on something that is a disease of addiction and something that needs to be done, in the extreme line if it makes it less drinking, I believe that it will and I'm sorry that my colleague Loncar isn't here, because I think he might be far more competent to speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42651	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs were submitted by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Gordana Komic and Dragan Sutanovac together. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42652	We're going back to the oil derivatives again. Same amendment, same reason. We simply believe that the citizens of Serbia are already paying enough for this poor power and that every penny of intervention from the citizens' budget for the DS is unacceptable. We understand the concerns of public finances. I said on several occasions that it was by system – surgery succeeded, the patient died. We believe that this whole excise law should not be accepted, because unfortunately no amendment we have given has been accepted. Mr. Secretary, who just talked about alcoholism, I'm just saying that the RTS Management Board has a decision that's in effect, that 500 dinars are subscriptions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42653	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, will you talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42654	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42655	I understand you're tired, Mr. Sutanovac, but I'm asking you to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42656	Yeah? Do you want to knock down the arm? Here, now we can knock our hands out in front of everyone here, so everyone can see now that you and I are down, let's see who's stronger, who's tired.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42657	Mr. Sutanovac, I repeat again, I see you're tired...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42658	Well, I'm not tired.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42659	But I'm not going to prove that you're not tired by coming down on your invitation to take my hands off of you. That's not like the National Assembly. This is not like the Great Hall of the National Assembly. That's not like the People's Messengers. It's not like the seriousness of the laws that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42660	Because you're tired.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42661	I ask you, Mr. Sutanovac, to be serious and to respect the citizens of Serbia and to respect this important topic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: If the citizens of Serbia respected everyone as I respect them, it would be much better in Serbia. All taxes increased, excises, disaster. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Granny. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: It was a joke, I apologize.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42662	Article 106(1) again, even though we are talking about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, we are talking about both RTS and all sorts of other things. You, Mr. Becic, are a man of normal height, perhaps slightly smaller build, and then when you're challenged by someone who's 20 inches tall and more than so many pounds, surely more than 20 kilos, tends to knock down your hand, so it's not gentlemanly, you know. You still need to find someone equal to yourself. Here, I'm ready. Well, why don't you tell me to take our hands off? Why wasn't Mr. Vanja Udovici here earlier, then why wasn't Mr. Sutanovac so brave as to say, "Mr. Widow, let's take our hands off?" Well, I mean, find someone by making an equal self. It's easy now, Bečića, it's easy to insult women on social networks, it's easy to bark tweets that are ugly to ladies, to women, no matter which foreigners they belong to. That's easy. Find yourself a match, and there's no problem. That's why I don't understand. I mean, Mr. Becic, I'm asking you first not to talk about what you want, but about the Excise Act. I'll remind you it's the turn of article 6, unless I'm wrong. Article 7, okay, I accept a mistake, I apologize. But there's not a single word in that article 7 that Mr. Sutanovac just said, except for that arm-stripping. And I'm ready to do that with Mr. Shutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42663	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Rules of Procedure. He mentioned my name four times. Mr. Sutanovac, I understand and I've found that many times today, that... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place that I'm tired.) That's what you say you're tired of. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: can I just have five seconds? But, Mr. Sutanovac, you see, in the Rules of Procedure, it says that when someone talks about hurting the Rules of Procedure, that no one has the right to replicate it. That's one thing. (Dragan Sutanovac, from the place: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107) Secondly, when you say five minutes, you should know for yourself, that you know the Rules of Procedure, that the replica is two minutes, so I can't give you five minutes again. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac. You're getting a word in the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42664	I'll just take a minute. I just had a little joke. It is said here that it is not fair that I challenge you to knock down your hands because you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42665	Mr. Sutanovac, before you challenge me, you must quote a member of the Rules of Procedure you point to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42666	I don't want to challenge you. I said, Article 107. It's been said that you're lighter than me 20 kilos and that we're not the same category. Mr. Babico, I'm lighter than you 20 kilos, and we're not the same category. How am I supposed to go with you? When I'm with him first, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42667	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a People's MP, Zoran Babic. (Dejan Radenkovic, from the scene: How am I not in the system? I apologize, Mr. Radenkovic, I apologize, Mr. Babic. I thought, Mr. Radenkovic, since you don't wave to the Rules of Procedure, I thought you were looking for a word by amendment. (Dejan Radenkovic, from the post: Here is the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Radenkovic, and in this 15th hour I see very well, it's an iPad tablet, not a Rules of Procedure. (Dejan Radenkovic, from the scene: But I like pills. You can't do that, Mr. Radenkovic. But it's enough if you say you're referring to the Rules of Procedure. There you go, Mr. Radenkovic. (Zoran Babic, from the place, you gave me your word.) ) Mr. Babiću, Radenkovic has the advantage, he called before you. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42668	I picked up about ten minutes ago. I'd like to ask you, distinguished colleagues and distinguished vice president, this is the National Assembly, and I ask you to chair this house as you like, according to article 27. If you don't want to take a break, come out for a minute, get your hands up, get back here. This doesn't look like the National Assembly anymore, what you're doing right now. So, let's get this done. What does this look like?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42669	Mr Radenkovic, this is how you should maintain your dignity, that you sit carefully in the parliamentary group, listen to what the MPs are saying in the National Assembly, and not now to accuse the chairman because you are reporting to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42670	How are you not ashamed of what you're doing now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42671	I'm not ashamed to warn you about what you're saying right now. Here's a warning, Mr. Radenkovic. Thank you. I'm taking a 15-minute break. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs to Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42673	So it's about gas excises, fuel. Here, once again, Mr. Vujovic, you are the only one left. So, Mr. Vujovic, look at this picture. NIS Petrol, gasoline 95 octane – 132 dinars, 98 – 140 dinars, diesel – 135 dinars. Austria – one euro. Fifteen, sixteen dinars, Mr Vujovicu, will be higher fuel prices after this latest change in fuel prices. To be clear, Mr. Vujovic, this is not the only excise you've increased. You and your predecessors have increased the excise on fuel from 13 to 15 dinars since 2013, so we understand each other. So, it's true what your colleague said the other day, this is a dinar or two. It's not much, like, a dinar or two. Mr. Vujovicu, dinar-two per fuel, dinar-two per electricity, dinar-two per water, dinar-two on this one. It's like a house, Mr. Vujovicu. That's why we need an urgent turnover, Mr. Vujovic, you've mentioned it several times. An urgent turn, Mr Vujovicu, this is no longer possible for Serbian citizens. I can't. You've introduced excises on everything and everything. You're increasing your excise duties. I can't keep this up, Mr. Vujovicu. Do you know what it means to a pensioner, Mr. Vujovic? Do you know what a man with 7,000 pensions means to a single dollar? Nothing funny to me here tonight, nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42674	Time. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure? The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42675	Mr. Chairman, Article 107. I will also remind you that you had to remind the previous MP, the previous speaker, that unfortunately NIS, and the NIS photo, NIS as a company, no longer exists. Now it's Gazprom. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: This is a photo from today. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42676	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42677	Gazprom and Gazprom, a government decision supported by the previous speaker. If he didn't know who the NIS was sold to, it was already scandalous. Also, since I was looking for a violation of the Rules of Procedure by article 107, I would ask where is Mr. Klitschko? I mean the authorized representative of the Democratic Party? Because he would've gone up against Fury about like Klickko two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42678	Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. Please, sir, but don't put the atmosphere in these and I understand we've been working for 15 hours, I understand you're all tired. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene, again in madness.) What's this? Shame on you. You can come out, and we can't, and I'm begging you. You yourself contribute to such an atmosphere that you insult each other. You are insulting because you are throwing out of place and now you have thrown Mr. Babic - shame on you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I did not throw it to him.) And who did you throw it to? Then to me. Thank you, Mr. Djurishich. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I did not insult anyone.) But, like I said, it's domestic education. The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Professor Janko Veselinović, together Gordana Čomić, Dragan Sutanovac, together Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Dusan Petrovic and magistrate Dr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42679	Thank you. Article 8 of the proposed text in the amendments and additions to the laws states that 'after the words - for the electricity supplied, words are added, including costs which do not depend on the consumption of electricity, as well as charges for the promotion of privileged electricity producers. I was on the Committee on European Integration before the amendment was signed – it was deleted, asked the representatives of the Ministry of Finance how electricity is calculated. Since the excise tax is on consumption and since we all get electricity bills and what this member of the law is proposing, I asked if the excise duty is now being taken into account, what is not electricity consumption and the incentive, and is VAT on all of this being accounted for? The Ministry's representative told me it's not true and that it's never going to be and that it's being accounted for by law. I promised her I'd either recheck my electricity bill or I'll make sure I'm the only one whose household gets such calculated electricity. And I asked her about this member of the law, and she was told that the price of electricity excises must be harmonised and that this is only in accordance with the directives. I have three requests for you. The first request is that we start to choose more carefully which of the Government we send to committees of the National Assembly. Either I have an accident that the government, supported by me or by any opposition, comes from government representatives who don't know what it is or don't care if they do their job on the board. The second thing I'd like to ask you is to explain to me why this article 8 on excise duties and the third on how VAT is now being calculated on what and what the excise duty is on. This is important not only because the excise will grow but because of the fact that we cannot do anything with each other but make it clear to everyone that there will be citizens who pay for electricity. Why? It's wiped out. I'm against the strategy for excises to be passed on to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42680	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42681	It is also very important to introduce this burden to the citizens of Serbia, or electricity excises, which was introduced for the first time into the tax collection and cost system in August this year. So that was the first time an electricity excise was introduced, and then the government thought it was enough to charge the excise on the electricity price, which includes all costs directly related to the supply of electricity. Then the government was encouraged by the great success of its reform measures by introducing a new imposition on electricity consumption in the new year, realizing that it had little to come up with another way to take the citizens' money, so that the excise duty would now, if this law was passed and our amendment was not adopted, be charged on excise duty and on costs that do not depend on electricity consumption. So, nothing. It's called hired power. It's also one species, is that you pay for it, spend no electricity, it's paid for by the EPS. Now you're going to pay taxes to the state, as well as to the compensation for encouraging privileged producers of electricity. This shows that there are no reforms. No, new revenues are not created by expanding the base, taxing those who have the most, but by citizens who barely make ends meet...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42682	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42683	I still have time, don't interrupt me. So, which reduced pensions twenty and more in some cases. For those working in the state apparatus, look very well, reduced salary 10%, introduced the excise duty, and as of 1 January, if adopted this, this excise duty will also be paid at fixed costs, such as the hired force and the incentive of privileged producers. So there's no end. Where's the public service subscription, which is 500 dinars today, because that's the board's decision, they haven't changed it yet, maybe they will, maybe they won't, I don't know. This is shameless, this shows that there is no end and that the government will not stop until it pulls out the last pair of Serbian citizens, and then it will represent itself as some major reformers. There's no reform. We haven't heard anything about tax administration reform, raising the efficiency of the bill, but we've found something that citizens can't avoid paying, so the hired power has to pay, and now it's going to be at 7% extra burden, as well as these incentives, and there's another 7%. Where's the end, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42684	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42685	The amendments of all opposition representatives are similar. The PRECRET movement has filed dozens of amendments against this harmful, poor budget and all supporting laws. This is just inexplicable. I've read this article several times. I can't trust Mr Vujovic, nor for water, nor for fuel, that you have taxed the energy involved, more specifically, including costs that do not depend on electricity consumption. How long, Mr. Vujovic? Just before, Mr. Tasovac convinced us that it's a good thing that an extra excise on alcohol will be introduced. Well, well, Mr. Tasovac, if people are going to drink less, they can't use electricity less, they can't use it, so good fellow Djurisic said. It's about the electricity involved. So, don't spend a kilowatt, they'll pay the excise. Mr Vujovicu, we need an emergency turn. Mr. Vujovicu, you've introduced electricity first, you've made it impossible for people to make coffee, cook milk, egg to bake their children, and now even if they don't, they'll pay the excise fee, Mr. Vujovic, even if they don't spend their electricity. You've reached out to them here, too. They have nothing left to buy milk for, an egg. They'll pay the excise, because they have a number, Mr. Vujovic. Is that a reform? Is that how you honor pensioners for New Year's Eve, unemployed, pregnant, everyone else? Mr. Vujovicu, you have an ungrateful role.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42686	Time, Mr. Veselinovic. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42687	I'm glad if we agreed on an alcohol excise, if he can give positive effects, and on health care. I'd just like to pray, since the previous speaker has re-produced something that's incorrect information. So, at this point, the subscription is not 500 dinars, you may have missed, but all this year, public services have been fully financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's it. What's new and what we have yet to discuss is a proposal to finance, or co-finance from the budget, so what kind of tax is going to be, I don't have that kind of parapsychological ability right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42688	Thank you. Just to let the government's representatives know they have 22 minutes left on Mr. Djurisic's questions, 22 minutes left to address for the entire session. Here you go, Mr. Granny. On what grounds? By amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42689	By amendment, replica, government, whatever. As far as I know, Mr. Becic, and I admit there are a lot more smart people than I am. Eggs are not roasted, eggs are cooked or eggs are fried. I've never heard eggs roast, but good to leave it on the burden of those who bake eggs. What I'd say, you know, if I'd just walked into this room and I hadn't lived in Serbia for almost 45 years, I'd think these people were speaking frankly. However, when we look at that background of the amendment promoters, so when we look at that they are eight years from 2000 to 2008, do you know how many times they have honored pensioners and all citizens in Serbia by collecting electricity? Cumulatively, citizens have increased the price of electricity, gentlemen, by 690%. 690% increased the amendment's promoters, you roasting eggs. Do you know what the pensioners used to bake eggs for? In the sun. At sea, no, they couldn't go to sea. That wasn't enough. These same amendments are for the economy they are also very concerned about, increased the electricity price by 810% and have now found that they shed crocodile tears over the evil fate of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have charged through electricity, households by 690% and the economy by 810%. What do you think, that we have no memory, that Serbian citizens have no memory and they don't know what you are and how you did it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42690	Mr. Djurishic, you have two minutes and 30 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42691	Thank you, more than enough. These evil ones for the eight years that 690% raised the electricity price, they raised the average wage by 1,980%. For 1,980%, they did it to you. Those good and noble who reduced your pensions by 10% a year ago, raised your excise fee by 7%, reduced the average salary by 10%, and these are the results of these wonderful and beautiful, which for four years, Serbian citizens, have been running this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42692	By amendment, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42693	These wonderful ones by 2008 and 2012, which thus raised the price, raised salaries in the public sector by 7.8. 10% and inflation by 25%, and have not yet gone from the bank to the first market, and have already taken those 15% of the difference. You know, those magicians are financially, economically. On the other hand, since it's 400,000 people, you've lost your job from 2008 to 2012, so it's okay that those handfuls of people who have stayed to work, that you've raised your wages, when you've left 400,000 out of work? How much did you raise your salary to those people who lost their jobs? From 13 to 26% of the unemployment rate and how many 13% of the people who lost their jobs, how much did they receive in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012? Did you raise their salaries by 1,900 and some percent, or did you lower their salary to 0%, inflation 25%, the cost of the consumer basket? All charges, electricity 690%, electricity for the economy 810%, unemployment 26% without pay. How much did you pay for those you left out of work? How much? From zero to zero. Now, that's your policy. You've come here to salt your brains and whine about 7% and you don't know how to explain your 690% increase? 810% for the economy and now it's up 7% from 690%? What magician can explain that? And what kind of, how many big crocodile tears do you have to pour to explain something like that? What are you insulting Serbian citizens for? That 7% is greater than 690%, that 7% is more than 810%, as long as you salt our brains? And all of this is to pay your interest, your loans, your billions and three hundred million euros for interest only in the next 2016. You're the one who took those loans. You owed the future for your present. You're a disgrace. Now here you're salting our brains... (Marco Djurisic, from the place: What is this? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42694	Please, Mr. Granny, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42695	I know it's not right for you to hear this, because it's never been right for you to hear the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42696	Please, Mr. Granny. Thank you. Mr. Djurishic, do you want a word? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. You have another minute and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42697	I think it'll be more than enough. I'm sorry, the electricity didn't add up 7% in August, but 12%, I forgot that. 5% of the electricity went up, and 12% of the excise. I've been reading real net profit growth rates since 2001, data from the finance ministry's 2001 website 16.5%, 2002 29.9%, 2003 13.6%, 2004 10.1%, 2005 6.4%, 2006 11.4%, 2007 19.5%, 2008 3.9%, 2009 0.2%, 2010 0.7%, 2011 0.2%, 2012 1.1%). So 12 years all in plus. Sometimes very small, sometimes plus. (Zoran Babic, from the place: How much? Growth? What? ) Real growth rate. Well, then in 2013 minus 1.5%, 2014 minus 1.5%, 2015 minus 1.9% net profit growth, 12 years in plus. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: What in the plus? What country did we live in? How you came to power every year at a minus.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42698	Thank you. Mr. Granny, by amendment? (Zoran Babic, from the post: By amendment. One sentence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42699	What is this further public demeaning? You tell me, how many people were in plus the people who were out of a job and there were four hundred thousand you left out of a job? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: What does it matter? Well, if they had 0.2% growth too, so I'd be happy, 0.2%, turn your head, but not to be ashamed of these words, be ashamed of your actions and that you're 400,000, 400 thousand people you've left out of work. The unemployment rate is now 7% lower, we become an orderly state. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Shame on you.) You're ashamed of yourself. He's ashamed of his lies. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42700	Please, Mr. Djurishic, don't be offended.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42701	And now you're saying they have bigger salaries. What bigger salary? How many 400,000 people are out of work? Shame on you. Read the unemployment rate. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: The lies of his own are ashamed. Did these people have anything to live on? (Marco Djurisic: The lies of his own are ashamed. To whom are you, what have you increased them? A lie? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: The lies of his own are ashamed. I'll take you to my Vranjska Banja... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Go ahead. And anywhere, so I'm going to show you from man to man how many people are out of work, whether they had money to bake eggs, whether they had money for their children at the time, and you're telling us here that you've provided them with growth. The growth profits they had, no wages, no houses, they had growth. What's this about? Shame on you, Mr. Becic, what do you allow?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42702	Please. I ask the MPs in the National Assembly to really respect each other and to respect that you are addressing one another. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Don't respect me, let them respect reality.) Let them once say what they're responsible for. ) (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: No one respects you. ) Please, Mr. Zivkovic, don't be offended, Mr. Djurisic, Mr. Zivkovic, please. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: What is he doing? What's he saying? I know, but the whole time Mr. Babic was talking, you've been repeating "a lie", you've been repeating other curses, please don't. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I am not a swearing, what are you talking about? Who was cursing? Mr. Zivkovic, please don't. It was all in the camera, Mr. Djurishich. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: If I had cursed, I would have been punished a hundred times.) I don't want to do this to you anymore. Members of the 8th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Thank you. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MPs Milan Petrovic and Gordana Komic and Dragan Sutanovac together. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I answered the word. ) (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Wait. I need you to get back to me in time. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I answered in time. You're not on time. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Members of the 10th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Milan Petrovic and Gordana Komic and Dragan Sutanovac together. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42703	Thank you. Since we now see that there is talk in the amendment about the personality of the amendment promoter, i.e. about the person who defends the law, I will continue in this style because it is allowed, so what is allowed once, it is allowed for all. So, all of you who defend this law, we remember well how you built a "safe house" for Ratko Mladic, as they disappeared... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42704	I won't let Mrs. Comic do it like this anymore. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: You do not allow her to... I can't let this go on forever. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You allow him.) The other MPs are rightly rebelled. You simply cannot insult the National Assembly in this way. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: All night he is the only one who is causing problems. ) Nowhere in your amendment is Ratko Mladic, a "safe house" and more. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: "Where is he?" Don't throw it away, I understand you're tired, but don't throw it away, Mr. Djurishic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I am very rested. Let's do some tests to do if you want to see... I ask the cameramen to show how the MPs behave in the great hall of the National Assembly. I beg, I didn't determine, I didn't order, I asked. As Mr. Vesenovic behaves, Mr. Djurisic behaves. Thank you. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dragan Sutanovac. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42705	Thank you. I am sorry that you feel that you can allow some MPs to disqualify the amendment promoters, and you cannot allow some other MPs to qualify or disqualify those who defend the law. But your choice. So, if we talk about the amendments that I have submitted with my colleague Sutanovac, all amendments are to be deleted and I wish I could erase everything we remember in this National Assembly, as I wish everything that everyone in Serbia remembers could be erased, but unfortunately, it can't. However, we can propose to delete the amendments which, in a member of the law which, by amending and supplementing the excise duty, speak about when and what time limits these excise duties will be. I am extremely sorry that this debate and about our amendments is going on as well and my attempt to explain my previous amendment in the style that has been allowed to other MPs is fortunately discouraged and I am grateful to the chairman for preventing him from telling me what I remember and the works of many people sitting in this Assembly and sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia and I will remember that silence, all except for one event, despised smiles on the faces of those who support the laws, in the day of the assassination of Zoran Djindjic. We won't forget that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42706	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Members of the 12th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Gordana Komic and Dragan Sutanovac together. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42707	New and new intrusions. Mr Vujovicu, Mr Tasovac, respected ministers, respected MPs, people in Serbia neither cook nor bake eggs, can only watch them. They have nothing to buy them for. Half of Serbia's citizens have nothing to buy eggs for. You increase excise duties on fuel, increase prices on water, introduce excise duties on employed power, tax the soul of Serbian citizens as well. Mr. Vujovicu, I see you're thinking deeply. I hope you've decided to turn your back on this vermin wolf... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42708	I give you a warning, Mr. Veselinovic, for insulting members of the government. Mrs. Comic, do you want the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42709	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: There will be an initiative for the shift. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42710	It's a pleasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42711	In its proposal to amend and supplement the law, Article 13 states that since 31 December 2015, the taxation of alcoholic beverages, including beer, has been carried out in accordance with the Excise Act and lists the numbers of official messengers by which the collection of excise duties is carried out. That we don't have a strategy that this law on amendments and excise supplements is harmful for two reasons. The first is that oil excises, oil derivatives and other kinds of excises that you've introduced, such that they're being transferred directly to the citizens. So, directly to personal consumption, because there are exceptions for those who deal in transport, for those who deal in oil trade. Only citizens have no right to any exceptions. This is a strategic wrong decision, rather than asking for additional money for the budget in the reform of public enterprises and in restructuring, i.e. in the final completion of a tragic trail with enterprises in restructuring. So, even if we had a similar picture of how we can fill the budget, this member of the law would be a clean surplus, and that's because we are introducing laws into the Assembly by emergency procedure, because laws don't come under the Constitution, but immediately after publication, not eight days, and because you need some instruction on how excise duties will be charged from the moment, unfortunately, most of the votes of this bill are passed, until 31 December 2015. The wider list of alcoholic beverages you introduced will not help, and the damage will be common.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42712	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42713	So, this member, I don't know, your discussion did not refer to the essence of this article, which only provides a transitional period until the entry into force of these laws. I don't see anything controversial about it. You've already challenged all other things. This is completely one technical thing. I have to take the opportunity to say that what we hear here as a criticism absolutely ignores everything we've said since the beginning of last year in terms of this programme this year in terms of the program. Trust at least people who know something. If we were in a situation where we were in a very difficult fiscal position, and if we had to get into things that are painful, that aren't popular, and that you were attacking us for populism and leading the country towards unsustainable deficits, all of what you're talking about, I would understand. We're bringing the country back to a painful balance and I absolutely don't understand your pulsism of consumption, increase and no effort to close the peach between income and expenditure. This is it. The total measure, if you have looked at the strategy you received, the total tax burden is best seen on the participation of total taxes of all taxes of the consolidated general state, 36.6% this year, 36.6% in 2016. We fail to reduce, but in 2017 35.6% and 2018 34.7%. So we say, we're in a good way, so hold this. We can be a thousand things individually right and not, but a total measure of what's important. So when we choose everything we have given in one way or another at the level of the Republic, on the budget deficit, on the fiscal deficit, on the general government deficit, on the participation of income, i.e. The fiscal total tax burden of the people falls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42714	Thank you, Mr. Minister. On what basis, Mrs. Comic? (Gordana Comić, from town: Replica. You do not have the right, and you do not have the time of the parliamentary group. A member. The 13 amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Gordana Comic and Dragan Sutanovac. Since Mr. Sutanovac is not in the O.R., do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42715	Thank you. I'd say he's in the debate now, Article 14, since he was a member of the 13th, if I understand you correctly. Therefore, Article 14 defines in several views what happens to a low-alcohol producer who, on 31 December 2015, has produced low-alcohol drinks containing more than 1.2%. This is the type of alcoholic drink on which excise duty has been imposed by this law, up to a maximum of 5% of alcohol and which are its duties, i.e. its duties since 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42716	I'm sorry to interrupt, but you're not talking about a good amendment. We're on Article 13. You're an applicant for the amendment and Mr. Sutanovac, but you're not talking about an amendment that's...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42717	The minister and I were discussing article 13, because I was talking about deadlines, ask the minister. I was talking about Article 13, about if I understood why he was here, but even if I wasn't against it, I'd be getting rid of this, considering it's about getting in effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42718	You may be confused because you have three amendments, Article 13, which we have already discussed. Now we're also on Article 13 that you've submitted. There's nothing in this amendment that you're talking about right now. And you have on Article 14.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42719	Dear Vice President, I cannot have two amendments to the same article. So, either she made a mistake completely unintentional and completely understandable service of the National Assembly in this...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42720	I'm sorry, I didn't say right, because the secretary gave me his copy, and it's not the one that's already passed. So you were just on Article 12. You are together with Janko Veselinović, the applicant of the amendment, you spoke of it, and now we are in article 13.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42721	When you gave me your word last time, you gave me your word for article 13.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42722	On Article 12, because Mr. Veselinović spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42723	All right, I won't explain it then for the member for whom I gave the explanation and the minister gave the answer, except one sentence to the Minister for Answer – our strategies differ and it's perfectly natural to listen to criticism. Whether it's populist to you or not, it's your right to choose, but today, as in 2012, I think public enterprises are the place where reform starts.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42724	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dragan Sutanovac. Do you want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: She said - of course. Yes, go ahead. Please, Mr. Markovic, you're throwing something away. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42725	Article 14. It is the obligations of the producer of low-alcohol drinks on 31 December and it is his obligations as of 1 January 2016, what they are obliged to do when it comes to the competent tax administration's organisational unit, to deliver data on the state of supply of low-alcohol drinks listed in the terms of Article 1, because from 1 January, such drinks with 1.2% alcohol, I do not know exactly how to say it, but I think it is "Sider" or "Sider", or something like that, if it is wrong, and most of all up to 5% alcohol. Therefore, they are obliged to provide information on the state of those drinks for each month until the consumption of those stocks to the competent tax authority’s competent authority. My question is, will someone who has, by all means, speak, 1,000 liters of an outsider by 31, who reports to the IRS, pay the excise fee if they sell those drinks in January or not? You can't see it from this article, or maybe I don't see it, so I'd be grateful for the answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42726	Thank you. On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Do you want a word? (No) Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dragan Sutanovac. Do you want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42727	In one position, Article 15 leaves the ambiguity that I see in Article 14 on the amount of excise duty and whether it pays in January and February an entrepreneur who has low alcoholic beverages and who has reported, in what quantity it has, and was obtained on 31 December 2015. Article 15 states: “The low-alcohol drinks, which contain more than 1.2% alcohol and up to 5%, which were introduced into the customs territory of the Republic by 31 December 2015 and for which no customs procedure has been completed, will be subject to an excise duty in accordance with the provisions of this law. The importing producer is not obliged to label those products on imports with control excise stamps.’ This member should be worth seven days to you. If you ever wonder why this law should be deleted, read this article again. You will vote on all the laws, we will vote, you will vote, I will vote, so this law will enter into force on Sunday, that is December 13th. What happens to importers 17 days by the end of December? For which quantities the customs procedure will be completed and for which it is not. Someone, Minister, I have a second good opinion of you, first of all, which I think you're a good economist, independent of your political work, which I've had a chance to make sure, frames members of the law, someone you trust, and until there's a vote on this bill, someone will plant amendments on you from the oil associations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42728	Thank you. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42729	Article 16 practically represents the continuation of the previous two members. One, on purpose, first completely unclear, and the second clear to all of us living with both feet on the ground, we live in Serbia and we know what it looks like with customs and with the calculation, whether or not the customs procedure is completed. Article 16 says – the first harmonisation of excise duties on alcoholic beverages will be carried out in January 2017 by a consumer price index in 2016, and then the second point states what is in force on the day of application of this law. What's interesting about this first point is that for alcohols from 1.2 to 5% alcohol, what consumer price index in 2016 do you use for this calculation? It should be priced without excise duty, since it was not excise goods, however, it remains not sufficiently clear. That's one of the reasons why we're asking for this article to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42730	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Dusan Petrovic, Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42731	Our amendment is that the alignment with consumer price growth, rather than on 1 January 2017, is already proposed in January 2016 for the consumer price index here. Here it says in an explanation of why it is rejected, that this would mean a new increase in prices for that percentage. The consumer price index is probably 1.5.4% in 2015. I'll agree with Minister Tasovec here, so you don't think I always mind. I think that excise duty should be increased again in January 2016. I don't see in increasing excise on alcoholic beverages a bad thing. I think it can be additionally burdened. Will that, on the one hand, fill the budget? It's not my main idea. Will it perhaps reduce the consumption of alcoholic beverages per capita in Serbia? If he wants one single prominence, I think it's a good thing, and that's why we've proposed such an amendment, not to wait for the alignment of the January 2017 excise increase, but to do so at the beginning of next year. The government didn't accept it, but I see Minister Tasovac would probably accept it. If only he were asking himself, I don't know, in the government, whether he might have voted for our amendment, but in any case, we think it's a shame that this amendment wasn't accepted, because in the end, what's important for the finance minister would be good for the budget, and on the other hand, he would have had that measure to reduce alcohol consumption in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42732	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42733	I didn't mean to comment on your previous amendments, because we can't determine with certainty what a syntagma means that no stamps will be issued. I expect our colleagues to define precisely how producers, i.e. retailes, restaurants and others will lead the stock situation to the transition from this year forward. I think the idea here is not to issue stamps, but to keep it at the stock level. Therefore, no one should be damaged or privileged in the whole process. It's customs, it's the stock situation of the final sellers, i.e. restaurants, shops, etc. As far as this article is concerned, I think it's crystal clear. Since these are the ad valors of excise duties, which we initially commented, that we are not wasting time, indexation is proposed by the consumer price index i.e. Price for a little bit, and it goes backwards. In January 2017, we will know how much consumer price growth was during 2016, and at that point, the index will increase, indexing, hopefully there will be no deflation, but there will be little inflation, I guess, ad valores of 1.5 or 2%, no more. They'll be indexed. There will be no percentage changes, but there will be specific excise duties, they will be increased by the rate of price growth to a little.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42734	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42735	I must admit that I have submitted to dozens of amendments to the Turnover Movement and I must ask you, Minister Vujovic, I am not quite sure that I was right when I asked for this member to be deleted. I was looking for a reason because it seems to me that the new increase in excise duties will be from 1 January 2016. So December 13th and it'll be 17 days first. If that is not true, Mr Vujovicu, I will withdraw this amendment or I will say – okay, it is good that you did not accept it. It seems to me to Mr Vujovic that in 17 days, there will be a new increase in excise duties and that the amount you talked about the other day, the dinar, what it is for built Serbia, what it is for pensioners, employees, etc., have as much money as it takes. So it seems to me, says the first next alignment of the dinar amount of excise duties on oil derivatives, etc., will be carried out in January 2016 with the index of consumer prices in 2015. Mr Vujovicu, I am almost certain there will be a new increase in excise duty. Do we need a twist in this regard, or will you convince me that there may be no increase in excise duties in this area, Mr Vujovic? You have to give me an answer to this question. This is what citizens who do not sleep at this time listen very carefully. It's about them. They're still saying vegetables and fruit is not excise. It's possible until the end, while we're reading all of this, that there's going to be some kind of concealment and that kind of excise.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42736	Time. Thank you. The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42737	Here, although the text is complicated, the essence is very simple and seems unequivocal. Article 17(2) refers to those derivatives for which we are introducing modified excise duties and will be changed for the first time in January 2017 based on the growth of consumer prices during 2016. The first position refers to those derivatives where nothing is changed by this law and where they will be the standard indexation provided for by law, but these are the ones where we haven't changed. It was last amended a year ago and they regularly arrive for indexation in January 2016 on the basis of the 2015 price index. There is always a rule that every specific excise, which is shown in an absolute amount of dinar, is indexed over time. As defined in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42738	Thank you. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov was submitted to the 17th Amendment. There's a word for Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42739	Thank you. This is one of these new members regarding new imposes on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and my question to you, Mr Vujovic, is – does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia know any other way to reduce the deficit, since we see that the deficit reduction has become only a sufficient goal for itself. Does the RS government know any other way to reduce the deficit without only paying citizens of the Republic of Serbia? This reduction in the deficits that you boast so much, comes from cutting wages and pensions, increasing taxes, introducing new charges, and you are spending more and more. It is fortunate that you have deepened the citizens so much that the more you spend, the more you continue to cover that deficit, and our amendment goes of course, as well as everyone else we have submitted in favour of eradicating this whole law because we believe that if you want to treat the citizens of Serbia in such a way, you can certainly not get permission or support of the DS. Here, the MPs showed you the price of fuel in the surrounding countries, the amount of wages in the countries in the environment, you said it wasn't true. That fuel is more expensive in Serbia than in the surrounding countries. It was seen to be, but let it be just one in a series of things you said here that aren't true. So we're afraid that the path you're going, no matter how hard you try to convince the citizens that it's good, it's absolutely not for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42740	Thank you. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dr Janko Veselinović and Gordana Komic and Dragan Sutanovac together. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42741	Minister Vujovicu, it's not his neck. So for those derivatives that are not taxed, the new higher excise duty will be indexed and the price will increase as much. Okay. So it's not increasing the excise rate, it's increasing the indexation rate. You say it's common. It is common to Mr Vujovic that when the price of fuel on the world market falls, the price of fuel in the countries that use it, except for some of the ephemeral examples that some MPs have set in countries where practically fuel flows through the streets and where fuel is practically not paid by citizens. It's like in Serbia water. So it would be normal for the fuel in Serbia to be cheaper than the 13th, not more expensive. I can show you, I've listed that, the newspaper articles, the inscriptions of today's country in the environment. You know what those newspaper articles say? "Soon-to-Equipped Fuel", "Soon-Small-Small Fuel Cheaping", only in Serbia is the emphasis that fuel will be more expensive, regardless of the price on the world market. Why? Because Minister Vujovic, within the framework of this government, has been given the responsibility to take what can be taken. Take what can be taken so that this government survives another day until Mr Vujovic's election. Until the election because the citizens have no more than what you took from them, you charged them with electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42742	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42743	It's not easy for me to parry with your outings of untrueness. No one takes what can be taken, it's completely incorrect. I told you the nut load would be the same, and then fall. The reduction in oil prices that we are following today and that even affected the world stock exchange movement will be reflected in Serbia in the same way. Since these are specific excise duties, they will not affect when the entry price of oil derivatives and crude oil is reduced, they will affect the overall level of prices. Hence, he will fall to us as he will in all other lands. What is true is that there is no difference from those figures they gave us from a professional association that updates it every day or every day, nine cents is the difference between Serbia and that example of Austria that you state. Ten cents is 12 dinars, nine cents is less than 12 dinars. (Janko Veselinović, from town: A salary? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42744	Why are you throwing Mr. Veselinovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42745	How much are all the other goods? All import goods cost world price times course plus taxes. I don't think there's really any point in putting anything that comes to your mind just because it's politically logical for you. Everything you've said so far, I'm telling you, it's totally schizophrenic. Expecting that what you're saying here, today and the last three days, you've demanded an increase in consumption to at least ten items. I've never heard of any place where you asked for a cut. You demanded a reduction of all taxes. If I were to add up what you of the opposition bloc suggested, the deficit would not be 120 billion, but 240 as the fiscal council last year thought it would be. They thought it, we achieved six times less, we'll achieve 50% less at the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42746	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the eighth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of Constitutional Court Laws. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandar Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Martinovic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Miroslav Marinkovic and Ivan Karic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42747	The Honorable Chairman, members of the Government, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, the SDS parliamentary group - Boris Tadic has submitted an amendment to Article 1 and we ask that it be changed, that in the Constitutional Court Act, the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No 109/07 99/11, etc., in Article 80 paragraph 3 after the words "set" the point is replaced by a comma and they are added: "by the Constitutional Court, when the request is adopted, determines in a decision a body which is obliged to pay compensation for material or immaterial damages and determines a period of four months from the date of delivery of the decision to that authority in which it is to pay compensation for damages". The procedure for the compulsory execution of the compensation of material, i.e. immaterial damage, may only begin if the compensation of material, i.e. immaterial damages is not paid within four months of the date of delivery of the decision. Our amendment is not accepted by reason that in the court's vocabulary there is a "good enough" word used as a synonym to declare that someone wants to pay. However, we believe that by the Constitutional Court's decision, a certain authority is required, so that the word "sufficient" in normal, to say in this life outside of court practice has a completely different connotation and quite another meaning. We believe it is necessary for one who is obliged to pay compensation within four months to be obliged, not to be his volunteering.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42748	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) I thank Mr Vujovic for today's session. Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42749	As regards Article 1 and the amendment of Article 89, The Constitutional Court Act, which is actually complemented, is the proposal justified in essence. The only thing we see here that could change is that the deadline could be shortened, instead of the four months shown, on the two so far. It's the only change we're looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42750	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Mrs Bogosavljevic Bostic, the Honorable Minister Sertić, we Members of the New Party propose that in the draft law supplementing the Constitutional Court Act in Article 1st period for voluntary payment of damages under the Constitutional Court's decision, that the deadline be 15 days, instead of four months as proposed by the Government. I prepared the argument. It would be appropriate that here, now in our National Assembly as a guest of justice, Mr Selakovic, listen to that argument and declare his answer. Minister Selakovic is gone and I now do not know who could have so professionally responded to this argument. Here's my argument, gentlemen. There is no reason for the time limit for the payment of damages under the Constitutional Court's decision to be longer than the time limit for the payment of the compensation according to the judgments of the ordinary courts. That's already one argument. Minister Sertic is certainly not so directed to this area right now that he can give me an answer as to why he might stay as the government has suggested. Tosdija Boskovic Bogosavljevic too. Second, the situation in which the Constitutional Court determines the obligation of compensation for damages implies and has extended the period during which the citizen has suffered the unlawful treatment of the state. This is why a voluntary payment period should not be set for an excessive period. I think we have a very reasonable argument regarding the respect of our Constitution and the legal system. Now there is no Minister Selakovic to answer why this one proposal through this amendment is unacceptable to the government? He's very well explained and there's no reason not to be adopted, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42752	Thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. I apologize, Mr. Jovanovic, you have reported after the previous amendment. I'm sorry, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42753	I thank you, Chairman. Of course I do. I would just like to express in short lines a position that cannot be doubted, because the promoter obviously read something that was given to him by someone who was extremely professional on this subject, so he failed to explain what was to be explained. Here is the essential question whether the Justice Ministry should be the hostage of any other authority that it has blamed or, as the proposer has suggested, acted against any citizen of the Republic of Serbia? Apparently, the Justice Department shouldn't be a hostage, and so far it has been. Obviously, the Ministry of Justice should not suffer what any other authorities are doing, starting with ministries, other institutions and state bodies, and so far it has been done in terms of compensation materially and in terms of compensation of immaterial damage. The fact is that in a particular situation, the Ministry of Justice has one single problem, which is to set an appropriate deadline because, despite being the formal promoter of the Ministry of Finance, it is essentially behind this proposal by the Ministry of Justice. The Constitutional Court, and this is an excellent solution proposed in this law, has an obligation to determine and identify which body, or state institution, has done anything that implies an illegality in the conduct, and hence the causal link between such treatment and the adverse consequences for the citizen. Finally, the question remains whether it is an adequate period of four months, because it is a time-limit or a time-limit for voluntary reconciliation, or whether the deadline should have been shorter? If it were to be considered a caselaw position, that it is a 15-day deadline defined in court decisions, then perhaps it could be accepted as a Parisian deadline. However, the ministry of justice, or rather the proposer, in the formal sense of the word, has taken up a deadline that implies something that relates to a quarterly period. A quarterly period at the level otherwise defined by the Ministry of Justice in terms of obligations related to the reconciliation of obligations. Therefore, there remains a single dilemma – is the deadline too long or not? In a specific case, the SPS parliamentary group will nevertheless support the deadline proposed by the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42754	Thank you. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: I would only ask that this time, given that I am an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, be taken away from the time of the authorised representative. It will be taken away. Thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42755	I have the same question as my colleague Pavicevic – who will give me the answer to this question, since neither Mr Sertic nor Mrs Snezana Bogosavljevic are expert on this issue. At least I think, Mrs. Snezana Bogosavljevic, that your ministry is not agriculture, ecology and legislation, but only the Ministry of Ecology. So, here, if you are expert on this, answer my question – how can the Constitutional Court’s decision to have an optional character, i.e. to give a volunteer in the execution of a decision? So it's not for one legal state normally. The Constitutional Court's decision to have a lower legal force than any other court's second-degree decision, I find that controversial. So what Mr. Jovanovic was talking about, it's not a question to me, so we could agree on that. However, one cannot be ruled by the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court's decision to volunteer in its execution. So it's simply not the Constitution, especially given the fact that this amendment to the Constitutional Court Act is passed with the budget. What does this have to do with the budget? My amendment, the motion for a Turnover Movement, is to determine the body that will implement the Constitutional Court's decision and that makes sense, but to determine volunteering in execution and to set some deadlines for enforcement, so it really undermines the fundamentals of the legal system. I think there are deeper reasons here, and that's the possibility that through the Constitutional Court it will affect the annulment of judicial and second-degree decisions. It's very dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42756	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42757	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a replica, not just for mentioning the name, but for misreading I would in no way agree with the point of view that was stated, allegedly legally justified. [[President: You've been given the right to a replica.]] It doesn't seem to me, because the Constitutional Court's decision, like any other court decision, is imperative. She carries an empire in her own saying. The Empire, in the right sense of the word, means something that is in relation to everything the decision has to do with the Constitutional Court's decision to act on those to whom a concrete proposal to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court is bound, therefore, has a binding fact. If so, then we can't have an entirely identical opinion, if we've had it previously compared to the attitude I've expressed. Then we can't have the same opinion over what the court's decision is on, especially the Constitutional Court. Finally, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, whether it is in a specific case of infringement of the rights resulting from compensation for material and immaterial damages, the decisions of the courts shall be annulled or put out of effect even the decisions of courts which are within or courts of special jurisdiction or courts of general jurisdiction. Hence, such decisions have a binding fact. There is no volunteering, because it is something that is imperative, and imperative nature comes from the very text of the proposal. What part? First, the imperative nature is in that part, which determines the body that has effectively acted against the law, secondly, to undertake to pay for damages, which in its kind has the character of material and immaterial damage and thirdly, determines the parions of a deadline, or a time limit for voluntary reconciliation of obligations. What's volunteering here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42758	Time. Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Dusan Petrovic, magistrate of Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42759	Thank you, Chairman. Our proposal is to amend Article 1 and read: “In the Constitutional Court Act, in Article 89, new paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 are added after Article 3, which reads: When the Constitutional Court adopts the requirement laid down in Article 3 of this Article, the authority which is obliged to pay compensation for material or immaterial damages and to set a period of three months within which the authority is obliged to pay compensation for damages. If no damage is paid by the Authority within the time limit set out in Article 3, it may be possible to initiate a procedure for the enforcement of a decision of the Constitutional Court within three months of the date of expiry of the period set out in Article 3(3) of this Article. The period referred to in Article 3 shall start from the date of delivery of the decision of the Constitutional Court to the Authority and the time limit referred to in Article 4 from the date of delivery of the decision to the damaged trustee. “ In the end, attitude 4 so far becomes attitude 7. In principle, we agree with the intention of the legislator to regulate this part of the Constitutional Court Act and to determine that the Constitutional Court determines the body which is obliged to pay for material damage, but we think that the deadlines and the act on which the proposal for a proposal for a proposal is unclear and that our solution is better, that it is more precise. The deadlines don't differ so much, but we think that the solution, in the far line, is more precisely and that the page that's damaged will have a clearer picture of what and which one it has to do so that it can collect its damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42760	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Completion of the Law on the establishment of Public Interest and Special Procedures of EXPRIATION AND PROGRAMMES OF CIVIL Licension FOR REALIZEMENT OF THE ‘BELGRADE ON THE Water’ Project, you have received amendments submitted by the MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Mr. Risticevic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I intend to use every second of these two minutes, given that I hope these "academically upright" who have declared this Assembly a sanctuary, to allow this time on behalf of democracy, on behalf of the "holy" sanctuary, I have the same rights as they do, because democracy loves equality, it is based on it, it is the process of maturation and I believe that these "academically honest" philosophers, the experts of the commas and the commas, will have no objection to that, and I say something to these comments, regardless of what I am not expensively paid at the Faculty of Political Sciences. I suggested that the term "realisation" be changed in a more appropriate word: "implementation". So, as someone who respects the tradition, who respects the Serbian language, I would like this word "realisation" to be translated into "implementation" and that those who have ruled in Belgrade for years and who have almost made Belgrade in fog, to realize that this project "Belgrade on water" should be implemented as real, that it is far better, that it is better to have "Belgrade on water" than they had Belgrade in the fog, where this fog, projected through a huge solution, sold to the people for years, creating deficits in the city of Belgrade that were astronomical. I don't live in Belgrade, but I'd like Belgrade to look nice and therefore apologize for the five seconds I overstepped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42762	Thank you. There's no apology. That's a On the 1st amendment, in the same text, they submitted: joint MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinković, joint MPs Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, master of Dr Blaže Bradić and Ivan Karic, joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Jovan Marković and MPs Vladimir Pavićevic and Zoran Zivkovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42763	Dear Chairman, first of all, I do not know how you joined the amendments of the two groups of MPs of my group because the amendment is one group: "Article 1 is deleted. The second is: “Article 1 is deleted. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” They're not the same amendments. Please treat it as two separate amendments, as did the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42764	The National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinković and joint MPs Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, mg Dr Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karić together and joint MPs Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković and MPs Vladimir Pavićevic and Zoran Zivkovic, together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42765	Dear Chairman, first of all, I do not know how you combined amendments to the two groups of MPs of my parliamentary group, because the amendment of one group to delete Article 1 is to delete, and the second is to be deleted. They're not the same amendments. So I ask you to treat it like two separate amendments, just like the government did.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42766	Mr. Djurisic, I received from the service that they submitted to the First Amendment in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42767	Well, I've told you one group is a member 1. - is deleted, and the other group is Article 1. - It's wiped out. It's not the same text. So I'm asking you, there's a fellow lawyer here who can interpret that these two sentences are not the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42768	It's the same store, Mr. Djurishic, that you're looking to delete this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42769	That's two different sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42770	That's what the Minister of Culture said at one point, deletes or deletes, it goes the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42771	It's not the same text. I am now asking you to give me back this minute, so that I can talk about my amendment, which says - Article 1. - It's wiped out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42772	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42773	So why do we think that Article 1 should be deleted, because Article 1 adds something that does not exist in the Law on Planning and Construction, which is a building permit for preparatory work. When the reason for the refusal of amendments is read, then it can be seen that, in December 2014, amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction were lifted to the possibility of issuing this authorisation. So she existed until a year ago, but we shut her down. Then we came up with a cure for "Belgrade on Water". We passed the law somewhere in March this year and came across a problem. Says the investor can't come up with his big ideas, he can't build towers 200 meters away, he has to change the law. And here I am, it hasn't been seven, eight months since the law was passed, we're changing the law. This law, among other things, states the argument that due to the specificity of buildings over 300 thousand square meters, the proposal provides for the obligation of technical control of the project, which is otherwise not provided for in the ordinary procedure under the Law on Planning and Construction for this kind of project, but is for each other, a building permit. So I don't know how or why, in an explanation for the rejection of our amendment, these reasons are put in place. In any case, the whole "Belgrade on Water" project is a big fog. This project makes investors...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42774	Time, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42775	I think I have a time of authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42776	You don't, if you're using the time of an authorised promoter, you have 20 seconds, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42777	In 20 seconds, let me say that this way of going out to meet the investor by bringing the drug first, and then changing and adapting. The investor may be kept in Serbia, but will disintegrate each other, to see that Serbia is not a legal state, but a state that changes laws for one investor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42778	You're out of time, Mr. Djurishic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Babic, on what basis, Mr. Babic? By amendment? I ask for the basis that Mr Bozovic, who is the amendment, would have the advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42779	I thank the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the honourable ministers, the first thing is, Vujovic was authorized under this law, he is not in the hall. The second question is, why Zorana Mihajlovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42780	Mr Bozovicu, just one more notice, because you did not listen carefully, all members of the government are authorized under all the laws that are on the agenda, please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42781	Just give me back my time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42782	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42783	So, Zorana Mihajlovic, as a resolutely in charge minister, also signed a contract on the construction of "Beograda on water", for this reason I personally filed a criminal report and because it is a "lex specialis", as we said when we adopted it, not only against the Constitution and system laws, but against the interests of citizens who pay for someone's shopping mall, someone's bar and someone's hotel. We've asked a few questions. How could he possibly have money on one side for an Arab investor, whose city of Belgrade...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42784	Mr. Bozovicu, would you mind just a little bit on your amendment, at least a little, if I said you weren't in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42785	If you can just give me my time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42786	Don't worry, just keep going. Would you like some of your amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42787	I'm talking about the amendment, if you know what law it's about, it'll be clearer to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42788	I know, and I have a member in front of me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42789	So it's very important that you answer the question how is it possible that there's money for Mr. Alabama on the one hand and there's no money for pensioners on the other. How is it possible...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42790	Is that in your amendment, Mr. Bozovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42791	I have for that reason and submitted the amendment because I see there's money here for Albabar, and there's no education workers. For this reason, I have deleted this amendment, or suggested that this article be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42792	And that article says that, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42793	Just give me a little further on what you took from me. What is very important is that we have proposed to delete this amendment because there is money for an Arab investor, and there is no educational workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42794	Thank you. Time's up. The word has Dr Vladimir Pavicevic as an amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42795	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, distinguished guests and guests from various ministries of the Government of Serbia, we have been discussing here for one 16 hours today, so don't mind a little fatigue if it is observed. Like Mr Bozovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on "Belgrade on Water" and we suggest that the contents of this article be deleted. We have three arguments, gentlemen. The first argument, we wrote it very nicely, precisely in the explanation. We believe that unnecessarily, the issue of a building permit to the city of Belgrade is unnecessary because it is also already entrusted to local self-government by the provisions of Article 133. The law on planning and construction. That's the law we talked about in the first half of December 2014, so after two weeks we changed it and we called it a rag of the law. As often as the law changes, intensively, it means we're dealing with a patch of law. The second argument, in the Law on Planning and Construction in Article 137, already provides for the possibility to issue a building permit either for the whole facility or for part of the facility if that part is technical and functional. We repeat, there is no need to transfer jurisdiction to the city. And the third argument for me is the most important, principled, "Belgrade on Water" as it is designed does not even need to exist, because for us this project is an anti-modernisation project of naked abductions. We have also proved here in the debate that the project is a blow to two centuries of urban development in Belgrade. And now here in dissent we bring different laws to adapt to someone's interests. Dear gentlemen, I suggest that I reconsider, that this article be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42796	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zoran Babic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42797	Two hours and ten minutes. I hope that this is what Serbian citizens are looking at, however, to build more than two million squares, build a Sava promenades, remove old objects is anti-modern, and modernising then it would be that 50 and some of the old ships that have pinked the image of Belgrade remain where they were decades and years ago. That over 200 constituencies, unhygienic objects in which people lived, are civilized, modernizing. Modernizing that people were gathering there, such a suspicious morale, with some very strange needs. Now, that's the modernisation of Belgrade. Now, that is the modernisation of Belgrade in the opinion of colleagues who have explained this amendment. On the other hand, I carefully prepared for this law as well as for everyone else, so I collected criticism. On March 16th 2015, Balsa Bozovic believes that the government is mocking citizens because she offers them to buy an apartment of half a million euros, and there is no telling where the building will be or where it will be located. The construction of the first building began two months ago and everyone can see where it will be. The success of the first sales event, sold 75% of the apartments offered, and I am sure Mr. Balša Bozovic knows and what the price is and how much they are sold for, because it seems to me that something appears to me that someone from his closest environment has quite connections during these transactions and these sales. So he knows that sales are going great, shows that citizens and investors trust the project and see it as an excellent investment. October 20th, 2014. Economist Goran Milicevic says, they have no intention of raising except two key elements – the tower and shopping mall. In addition to Sava Promenade, the Sava Promenade, two months ago, construction began on a residential facility, 19 floors, 296 apartments. So much for that criticism and that fog some MPs here see. On April 30th 2015, Balsa Bozovic claims that "Beograda on water" has dropped. It's over, but no one from the government can say that. Not only did Beograd on Water not give up, but during the following year we are next to the existing construction site, residential part, opening several more construction sites in this area, hotels, world-renowned hotels. Serbia's Academy of Architecture, a plan that lacks any creatively based urban space, no urban benefits, which would attract the masses of pedestrian citizens, to whom this part would have to be intended. The first part of the Sava Promenade has already become part of a city where Belgrade and visitors spend their free time, that is, it is already available to guests of Belgrade, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ride bicycles, walk, bring children to playgrounds. He's no longer a snaker, he's no longer a place to gather people with pretty dubious intentions. There is no longer a place where people live in unsanitary gangs, where dozens of ships who have just stood there have been collecting rust, the Sava Promenades are organized performances for children and adults, exhibitions, mini concerts and can already be seen, that this will become a new place for Belgrade to gather, because we plan to arrange the next two kilometers as a real promenade. I don't know why some people are pretty nervous, jumping and jumping, I'm anxious to do it all, just at this pace we've been doing so far. I don't know why some people are impatient, it just makes them uncomfortable when they hear about the progress of their city or the progress of the country they live in. The Serbian Academy of Architects, no author of "Beograd on Water" has been presented to the public and through the media, and the answer, repeatedly familiar with the authors of "Beograd on Water" and their portfolio, landscape architect Gerdo Akino of Los Angeles, designed Sava Promenade, and a renowned architectural company RTKL, designed a master plan. It is one of the world's largest multidisciplinary design companies, for which it has received several significant world awards. Also, criticism was the same as those who do not like it, they would prefer those rusty ships in the area where "Belgrade is on the water", and they said – the government is hiding the contract "Belgrade on the water". However, the contract was published on the Serbian government's website on 20 September 2015 as soon as it became legal. So, all the criticisms that have been addressed so far, all the criticisms we just heard here have fallen absolutely into the water. Of all the criticisms, only a yellow duck is left to sail in Belgrade's fog, and "Belgrade on water" is a real project that employs Serbia, which changes the appearance of Belgrade, which, unlike old ships and teachers and spaces, is very dark and very suspicious, has become a really modern part of Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42798	The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic. Mr. Bozovic, you have the right to a replica, you will get it, you mentioned Mr. Bozovic, but I did announce Mrs. Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42799	Dear Chairman, the view of the SPS is that this amendment is not supported, and we are simply surprised that the proposings of this amendment do not remember that a special building permit for preparatory work, provided for by the 2009 Law on Planning and Construction, and also, the same law provides for construction phases. The preparatory work is otherwise, anyone who deals with construction, and this is also a colleague Branka Bošnjak better than I can explain, knows how important the previous preparatory work and those previously in construction are and differs depending on the condition of the plot on which future construction is planned, so the preparatory work can also be supporting walls, removing existing facilities, clearing the terrain, etc. These are all important preparatory work, and in order for future construction to be safely and efficiently and uninterrupted, each site must have a good and thorough preparation. Otherwise, it is true that the Law on Planning and Construction provides for local self-government to issue building permits. However, given the importance of the project, in the square of the facility, this law only makes it even more detailed that the building permit is issued by the City of Belgrade and we really do not understand why both these and the next members are asked to be deleted at all. Once in how many years this kind of investment comes to Serbia, an investment that will truly create the opportunity to employ both buildings and employ our citizens and bring all other works that are related to the building to life. There is no need to fear what is new, to push Serbia forward, to new investments and to boost the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42800	I thank Mrs. Spasojevic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic, a replica of Mr Babic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42801	Mr. Babico, first of all, you're a National MP and you're my colleague, that's all. Please, don't let anyone hear you calling the Academy of Architecture for unfounded criticism of the project "Boodrada on Water". These are the greats of our architecture, Mr. Granny, and they know so much more than me and you. De Gardian published one text, including one of my statements that just after "Begrada na Voda" had given up. You know why? "Belgrade on Water" is not a building where 75% of the apartments were sold. Only half of the building sold 75% of the apartments, but they didn't tell you that well. "Belgrade on Water" is a 3.5 billion-euro project. That's what you told us here when we adopted a Lex specialise here that you're now supplementing. That's what the Prime Minister told us, 3.5 billion euros. It's 189 buildings and buildings. Ask Mr. Mrkonjic about the Machine Project which pushed the spike to 30 metres and then failed. Why? Because the people of the Academy of Architecture spoke of it as impossible to build on one part of the land, which otherwise has 117 hectares and which is donated as half of Belgrade's centre, Mr. Al Bajer. That's worth a billion euros, and you're trying to do him a favor with this Lex specialist supplement, so that he'll be the one to earn, not Belgrade, not the citizens of Serbia, but only him as your party's strategic partner. That's why we're against it, and that's why we said that this amendment deletes, not only this member, but the whole supplement, and when it comes to power, it's going to put a lex specialis out of force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42802	The word is made by MP Zoran Babic, a replica for mentioning the name and last name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42803	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Do you realize how much contradiction there is in the words of the previous speaker, that in the same sentence he says that this land is not worth anything, because the spikes have failed, nothing is worth it, nothing can be built. Someone cheats on the citizens that there will be something, can't be built, and then puts a comma, so I guess the point is, but you're giving it to your partner, giving it away as if someone were going to take it in their pockets to Emirate, that's what the land says, you give it to your partner to earn it. If it can't be built, how do you think it makes, how? How do you think he makes money? (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: To make. What do you want me to do? So it can be built. So the academy is wrong because the class you call to the academy that said -- failed rods; it can't be built, and in the second part you say, "yeah, it wants to make money, it's going to make a hotel." Can it be built or can't be built? On the other hand, if he earns, he earns Belgrade, too, he earns Serbia. He's making money because he's co-owner of the project, and what's the issue? It's just that you have to define whether it's built or not, can it be built or not built? If it can't be built, there's no profit, but it can't be built past profit. You're contradictory. Yes, and you're right, and I would be holding your head with so many false words, with so many things that are not based on reality, that you defend dozens and dozens of ships stranded, rusty on the face of Belgrade, that you defend 200 and some of the housewives in which people lived unsanitary, that you defend that it's better than Sava promenades, than new hotels, from shopping malls, from apartments... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42804	Time. Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42805	The basis is a replica of the presentation of my colleague Susana, she called me by my direct name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42806	You have the right to a replica if you are called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42807	First and also to thank my colleague for calling me. I actually wanted to remind myself of my exposure to the adoption of the basic "Belgrade on Water" Act, where I actually suggested that a phase be introduced in construction because of the complexity of construction, because of the expectations of various types of work and everything that we have now actually faced. I also suggested that the phase be introduced into the basic law, and I now believe that what we are correcting is actually in the spirit of what I was saying then, and in that sense I suppose that's why my colleague mentioned my name. Mr. Babic, my colleague Babic did not, in fact he called me to comment on what he said, but I would also like to say something about standard proposals, establishing standards, foreign and accepting foreign standards. Unfortunately, in Serbia, we are still partially projected by the JUS and it is expected that foreigners who come and introduce structures that are not seen here, we expect that they will actually design by standards that we haven't had the chance to meet, and in that sense I suggest that it remain in that part, that member that actually introduces the adoption of foreign standards in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42808	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. Is Mr. Sutanovac in the O.R.? No, it's not. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will now try to take advantage of every second, if those who often jump and speak don't mind, and I'm being challenged by the right. I don't want, unlike them, to keep long circulations, perceiving that people's saying that a chicken that's a lot of clucky, tiny eggs are wearing, so I'm going to see that I show up as little as possible, but to say that I live outside Belgrade, but I want my capital to look nice. I don't mind, believing it'll bring the city back to us once, and I'd like that poor old party of the former regime to do, who's lost her job, who's been lurking empty pockets, empty bellies in the city suburbs, to take them back to the country with stimulant measures and make us happy both. What did I say? To say that this building permit is in no way meant to do what the party of the former regime did, so they built a bridge that connects two local communities, costing 500m euros and leads the thirsty across the water without a building permit. Since this is about a building permit, I believe that the current government in Belgrade and the Republic will not make such a mistake. I also know why a colleague is nervous, most often talking about this, since he has a lot of bars, he's worried about the real estate market, even though you'd give him a coffee shop in that "Belgrade on Water", maybe he'd be so paid off in cafes, maybe he wouldn't mind. Like this, I believe he sees himself as a competition. I believe we won't make mistakes like them, because for the money from one bridge, we could have made ten bridges across the Sava, and that useless bridge leads us to the fact that because of the highway to Chačka, since this one was made unplanned, we have to make another bridge because they made unforgivable mistakes. I believe this government and the city of Belgrade will not make such mistakes. I believe that he will also find a way for a colleague who "Belgrade on Water" to see as a competition, to sell to his locals, to find some way to die, to free him from that fear, and that everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42810	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the people's messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42811	Thank you. There is no newspaper that opposes the overpriced project "Belgrade on Water". There is no problem with any garbage that was there, it could have been cleaned up if you had to clean up the garbage without costing the citizens of Serbia three and a half billion euros. So, it's a little expensive to clean up the garbage, cut the grass and take out the wrecks, not only for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but for individuals from the SNS it's very profitable. So, it seems to me that apart from cleaning up the garbage that's listed as the greatest success of this project, as we can see...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42812	Miss Jerkov, I understood some of the previous members who were very large to talk about everything and everything, but this is a member who tells exactly what the subject of change is. I'm asking you to adjust...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42813	The subject of the alteration is Lex specialis lex specialis.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42814	Well, I'd like you to read this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42815	And that your Arab friends don't fit these conditions now, but they need a little extra to be completely satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42816	I'll have to read it, because it's not worth convincing myself with. In the proposal for a law supplementing the Law establishing public interest and specific procedures for expropriation, issuing a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water", in Article 1 amending Article 15 of the new position of 3rd and 4th changes and reads – it is entrusted to the city of Belgrade to issue building permits for public areas in the context of the plan paper, other than the facility referred to in Article 133, etc., and this has nothing to do with what you said. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42817	Now we've heard that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42818	Replica, Mr. Babice, for mentioning the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42819	Replication for mentioning SNS. We have now heard that DS garbage has been arranged and arranged for the Geo Institute building, which unfortunately was all that, while within the framework of the "Belgrade on Water" project for four million euros in the money of our friends, friends of this country, the building has again not become the most beautiful building in Belgrade or one of the most beautiful buildings in Belgrade. But the most beautiful building in Belgrade is for DS now garbage. For DS, now it's garbage and Sava promenades, yes, from three hundred and a few meters away. When it is completed completely, it will be more than two kilometres long with all the mobile phones, with everything that really stays there for the Belgraders, but also for many guests of Belgrade both abroad and domestically, it will make it much more pleasant. You know, DS would lead that same promenade, but then you'd have to take those, you'd have to wear those fishing boots up to your belt so you wouldn't get bit by something. Instead of the current Sava Promenade, they'd show you rusty ships. That's the value. You know, I believe tourists would rush to Belgrade to see it, to see these people who, and hundreds of families, lived in inhumane, unhygienic conditions. You know, that's for DS value. That was Belgrade's tourist potential. I really don't know why they didn't think to make some tourist tours before and show it. For SNS...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42820	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42821	... It is not worth it and that is why we will take this part of Belgrade this very way as foreseen by "Belgrade on Water".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42822	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42823	As part of this article, we have one amendment concerning point 9 and it concerns, I will read - with the request to issue a temporary building permit from this position as proof of the relevant investor's right, it can also deliver the consent of the owner of the land. We are asking here to stand still “the sea, ” because we believe that the consent of landowners is of paramount importance. Here, of course, we are adding a new member to the project "Belgrade on Water", insisting that the architecture of the complex respects the construction tradition of the inherited urban tissue of the city of Belgrade. We believe that there is a possibility of dramatically disrupting the city's spatial force, and yet we are about for the task of Luke Celovica to be preserved in some way and we are asking for the spirit to be monitored in these offered solutions to the complex facilities in the urban, surrounding structure and that representative object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42824	Thank you. The National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic and joint MPs Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Mr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karić and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Jovan Marković and MPs Vladimir Pavićićić and Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42825	I draw your attention again that amendments in the same text could not be accepted by two different groups of MPs of the same parliamentary group, but it does not matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42826	But I'm telling you again that one, the other, the third, the fourth, the fifth amendments are looking for and intervening on a member, and they're asking for that member to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42827	Okay, we don't understand each other. It doesn't matter that much at this time of night or day. I don't know where Mr. Sinisha Mali is, he was supposed to be the same when we discussed this law here. That's how we were announced. He's gone. We ask that Article 2 be deleted, which provides for several things that are controversial. It is a dispute to issue building permits for two separate stages. Why is it so controversial? If a building permit is issued for the foundation, there is much, and it is envisaged to build a high-rise building facility, it is basically much less squares, which means that much less compensation will be paid for construction land at that time, which means that the investor will start to work, and it will not pay the city of tax anyone who should otherwise pay if a building permit is issued for the whole area, so we citizens of Belgrade, and probably also citizens of Serbia, because this is a lex specialis, a law that also applies to a project financed by the Republic of Serbia's budget. So all citizens of Serbia will pay for building municipal infrastructure. Another issue here is the possibility of applying international or European regulations, norms and standards. So this is how wide it can be. Without wanting to offend a country, but we take a country where standards, I don't know, are completely worse than our own, and we say these are international standards, because they're from another country and by this law they can be respected. If there was a European left, we might accept a solution. It's totally unacceptable like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42828	The word has Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, distinguished guests and guests from various ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are three notes I would like to make regarding our amendment to Article 2 of this bill. First of all, gentlemen, what is the meaning of a building permit for foundations or preparatory work if a project of the whole has not been done? Can someone here answer this particular question? The second thing is, there is no explanation of the promoter that the justification for introducing this solution in the fact that this is about very demanding objects that require special dynamics and technology, because respected gentlemen, the more complex and demanding the object, the sooner the whole project should be prepared for the whole facility. There's no dilemma. Third thing, I'm very sorry that you don't understand here, and here we are during today's debate, what's modernization? Modernization doesn't mean modern car. Modernization doesn't mean the tallest building in place of the manager. In the case of "Biograda on Water", modernisation would be respect for the rule of law, respect for the institution of competition and respect for the opinion of the profession. We didn't have any of that, gentlemen. The rule of law is overrun like this. We showed it here. The Institute of Competition absolutely annulled, and the meaning and importance of the profession minimized, gentlemen. That's why this project is anti-modernizing and it's time for it to be accepted here once as such, that we know the meaning of some concepts, what modernization is, and what's the opposite of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42830	Thank you. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, who proposes the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42831	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, Article 2 is also deleted for reasons why we believe that Lex specialis in general is a harmful law and that it is in breach of the system laws and the Constitution. Today we have one fact that we warned about when you proposed a Lex specialis, which is that laws are changed in relation to the contract, if the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia needs to be. We believe it's a blow to the sovereignty of a country. Eagle Hills, a company that received 68% in the joint venture "Belgrade on Water", which invested ten times less than Serbia, was founded in Abu Dhabi for a period of validity of one year with zero capital dirhams. For this reason, and for those who have been in Turkmenistan, Syria, Iraq, Iran, India, Egypt with this same company, we believe that there is an incredible scam here in the middle, where we have allowed these supplements to be converted immediately after receiving a building permit for preparatory work in the possession of Mr. Alabama. For this reason, we have proposed to delete this member and we think it is very bad that Serbia sends a very bad message. So 55% of young people are unemployed, and there are millions and millions of them here under vague conditions and when it comes to loans and when it comes to any kind of subsidy from the city or the Republic. The city of Belgrade has lost its right to local self-government. The citizens of Belgrade don't ask questions here. The only questions here are those whose interests and hands are in the honey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42832	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42833	I wish there was a similar contract for that development facility in New Vienna, Hetherland, such as the contract for "Belgrade on Water". If only for the obligations of this fictional performer at Heterland had been granted the permits, i.e. guarantees, such as those of Eagle Hills, as they exist here in the contract, it would not have been a million and 200 000 euros for children distracted in development that would not have disappeared in the pockets of clicks around the head of the Vojvodina regime, but those children would have received their own facility and those families would have their own facility. For those people who first accused us that the project, or contract, will not be made public, so we published a contract for those who do not want to read or cannot read the contract, they do not realize that the commitments of Eagle Hills are guaranteed by Al Maabar, that we also have guarantees for Eagle Hills. After all, if our previous speaker, not in our previous address, but from about a dozen minutes ago, 15 minutes ago, convinced that nothing can actually be built there, then why should he and the profit be taken care of, why worry about whether anyone will get anything? There, according to the previous speaker, nothing can be built. Probably there can only be rusty ships, garrisons, people of dubious morality. It's probably the Belgrade offer and that picture Belgrade was about to show. No, it's not. This is a development project. This is a project that will employ people from Belgrade, as well as people from all over Serbia, construction operations, construction material production. As much as we cheer for this to fail, to the joy of Belgrade's citizens, to the joy of our society, we will change the image of Belgrade by a clear and very transparent contract and plan. If only you had made similar contracts for Hetherland, children distracted in development would have had their own corner.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42834	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The 2nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42835	I've got two shifts under that article. Article 15a is requested to be abolished, because for each of the facilities it is necessary to issue a single building permit, which includes a fully defined facility, means its purpose, surface, floor, equipment and technical characteristics. I think the building permit can also define the construction stage, because it won't violate a completely defined object. This would ensure that each of the complex facilities is built in accordance with the applicable law and regulation, and that it is treated equally with all other facilities on Belgrade's territory, i.e. on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In Part Two of 15b, we are looking for only one small thing, meaning that the definition of "International" is deleted, as it directly points to the application of the regulations of the Middle Eastern countries, as it is generally known to be an investor from those parts. By applying the rules in this area, we give up European regulations and standards in construction, which is the possibility of disrupting future functional use of the facility. So, the issue of insurance of buildings that are not according to European standards, the question of climate impacts on built-in materials, the stability of the facility, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42836	Thank you. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42837	Now you see the argument here that opposes these members. We say it is, at the very least, a suspicious business, which is paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia who profit from a circle of people close to SNS or SNS, and Mr Babic says he thinks someone in Vojvodina was stealing. Although, he's not saying that he thinks someone was stealing, he's saying someone was stealing. Which is why I'm very pleased to inform him that today he's earned five lawsuits that will be filed against him and that he's counting on every time he says someone's going to be sued. It's just that if we exception everything else to put aside and take just that fact that you find our job suspicious, that it's without a guarantee, that it costs a lot of citizens, that it won't be useful of him, you don't have a single word to defend that job, you're talking about how someone else was stealing in some previous period. It's more than anything that convinces us that we're right. They don't have to convince us of your words. It convinces us what it says in this law. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42838	I apologize for having to intervene every time when it comes to you. It is said: “Article 2 after Article 15 is added to the new Article 15a – Technical Control and Audition Commission referred to in Article 131. The planning and construction laws may, when assessing compliance with the conditions laid down in specific regulations, standards and other acts, accept proof of compliance with the requirements’, etc., etc. If only you had connected a little bit with this member, such as Mr. Babic, I wouldn't have intervened, but you didn't say a single sentence in this article. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I will not be like Mr. Babic in my life.) You gave Mr. Babic a chance for a replica because you mentioned the party and him personally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42839	There is one saying with us, and I will leave it to the citizens to finish it – which is a clever thing to be ashamed of, and then three points. What I'm going to ask you, Mr. Chairman, do you realize how dangerous the words you just said are? In one hand of the threat, if you say anything, if you mention Bojan Pitiæ's criminal regime, I will sue you, sue me, sue me. There's enough of us. Sue, but children distracted by development don't have Hetherland. Is a million and 200,000 euros paid? It's paid. Is the facility built? No object was built. And? Now, by the order of Bojan Pitiæ, you must not speak of it. This bowing of the head shows – it must not. You know, you can threaten as much as you want. I believe in the independence and impartiality of the judicial authorities. I would be happy to respond, but let each of these lawsuits addressed to me, Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Jovicic and other people from the SNS make you return to the children distracted in the development of what is theirs, to build them that facility, not to put money in your pockets. Where is the million and 200,000 euros sent to New Vienna? Where is it addressed to families and children distracted by development? Whose pockets, whose companies, whose private? Who got the apartment? The sixth suit. Sure, thanks, great. What would it mean to file a lawsuit for every threat, for every blackmail, for every insinuation you've ever made? Then it would be oppression...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42840	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42841	Then it would be a deal with the opposition, and this regime of Bojan Pajtic can do anything just to cover up bad leads. You can't, they're too deep.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42842	Thank you. If you ask me, I can say one thing. I'm afraid Mr. Nenad Canak is right. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Dusan Petrovic, Miroslav Marinković and joint MPs Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Mr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karić and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Jovan Marković and the MPs Vladimir Pavićevic and Zoran Zivković together. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42843	Article 3 of this law provides for entry into force and we believe that it should be deleted and that such a law never enters into force. If there were more understanding, the whole law concerning these changes and additions to Belgrade on water should never be implemented. This law, this change is an additional message to people who want to come to Serbia and invest, that Serbia is not a legal state, that there is no law in Serbia for everything, but only the law applies to those who are good with the government, because if they are good in relations with the government, if they are friends with the government, then they can count on getting everything, the law they want, and then they see something wrong, so let's change the law, so we need money there's no problem there is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we don't have any more money, there's the budget of the City of Belgrade such investors. In Serbia, they can count on the fingers of one hand, but that is not enough for Serbia. We bring if already Serbia and Belgrade, as the mayor of Belgrade who is not here right now, is the town of cranes, if Serbia should do the crane country, then amend the Construction Planning Act so that high-rise buildings can be built anywhere in Serbia, anywhere in Belgrade in other places not just part of "Belgrade on Water", so that they can enter Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, why only here, it is a bad message that investors will not come to Serbia and therefore the law should not enter into force.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42844	Thank you. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, distinguished guests and guests from different ministries of the Government of Serbia, this is the last 114 amendments that I will explain in today's marathon and budgetary debate at our session of the National Assembly. We propose, we MPs of the NS, honored gentlemen to delete and Article 3 of this bill. I think it will be recorded in the history of our parliamentaryism, that some people have fought today for this great principle of rule of law, respect for the profession and respect for the competition institutes. Today we are a minority respected gentlemen, but this fight is worth it, and what is the proposal's intention. Here, to focus a little on this Article 3. The proposal is that, without any preconditions, gentlemen, that without the right reason and that without a clear justification for designing and building up in advance, it accepts the regulations of other countries, that is the proposaler's intention. Anyone who votes to amend this bill votes amongst other things and for that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42846	Mr. Pavicevic, if you're wrong... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Let us finish with dignity today. I sit here for 15 hours, discuss all day, you turn off my microphone. I have the last amendment, Mr. Becic. Do you have any dignity in the National Assembly, the MP here? Thank you. ) So Mr Pavicevic, the dignity of the Assembly is not defended by you deceive the MPs and deceive the public. I will read Article 3 in Article 3 and the amendment that you have submitted is said – the text of the bill, this law takes effect on the eighth day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and you are asking for that member to be deleted. And now I'm asking you, what does it have to do with what you're saying? I'm just asking you to speak truthfully and defend the amendments you've submitted. Nothing more. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42847	Just in line with what Mr. Pavicevic just said. We have suggested that Article 3 be deleted for reasons that this law never comes into force at all. We don't want that. It is our right as an opposition MP, and we want this law not to enter into force. Why do we want this law not to come into force? Because we think that it is deeply contrary to the interest of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the development of the capital. Why do we think that? Because we have a partner who has provided a safe benefit to himself and transferred all the risks to the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, we have proposed Article 3. - is deleted to make it known forever that the DS along with other opposition parties and MPs, the first day when it comes to power, will put "lex specialis", an interstate contract between Serbia and the UAE. As for a contract that you even predicted couldn't be broken up, that the attorney general should press charges to determine the futility of the contract. Because we believe that the contract is contrary to what the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia are interested in. And we believe that 189 objects are a wasteful fairy tale of those who fooled us of three and a half billion euros in investment. In the end, we got a duck. Duck, Mr. Granny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42848	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. Here, when someone finds a way to connect what they want with the amendment, they won't be interrupted by the chairman. That's the answer, Mr. Pavicevic. One more time. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42849	Very short, Mr. Becic. Because of the color, I'd still like that duck to stay with him. You know, that yellow duck looks like him, you know, kind of like that democratic prefix. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: What if it is a duck? ) Maybe if it was a duck, it'd be even easier. On the other hand, if I do not believe in this project "Belgrade on Water", I do not understand why someone on the one hand is criticising, and on the other hand people from its nearest environment are taking part in the project. And that's what they do as brokers in buying, that is, selling these apartments. Don't you think it's a little hypocritical to act like that? Fog? The fog that is probably now on Belgrade's streets, but the fog was much denser at the time when you led Belgrade, while leading Serbia, while leading it to these depths of debt, debt, malversion, kidnapping, leaving people out of work. We now have one part of Belgrade that is developing. We have a new Promenade, we have a new offer of Belgrade, we have room for investors, for new hotels, new shopping malls, for new apartments, for new marinas, for everything it does to Belgrade, and it can make one not only European but also world metropolis. But I'm afraid it's a complete guard rising. The stumbling block is just because you didn't put your fingers in honey, but this is a honey that will be felt by citizens of Belgrade, citizens of Serbia, and not by those in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42850	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you to the cabinet members for participating in today's session. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in the Field and Rural Development. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42851	In Article 1, you are changing Article 3 of the basic law by adding credit support to the type of incentives. When we discussed this law when it was passed, we expressed certain skeptics regarding exactly loan support to farmers. In fact, even then, and today we're staying on it. It is absolutely unclear how this does not conflict with the Banks Act, given that it is defined there that banks can only be those that function in this way. What was special to our concern back then, and now I'm asking you a question, there was then talking about some possibility that legal and private persons also credit farmers and we were talking about that there are actually no mechanisms to protect those people who, I suppose, are not using these opportunities because they love, but because like other citizens, they take loans or some loans probably when they don't have any other means to finance what they need to do. So we're really afraid of how this is going to work. We believe that in later members of the law, it is not well enough worked out. It is said in later places that the government will edit in more detail how it works. We believe it must be regulated by law. In any case, regardless of what I said about this article, we are, because of the reduction in the allocation for subsidies and the way it will work, against the adoption of the whole law, so that our amendment to this article is actually - deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42852	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42853	Dear People's MPs, we have explained the reason why we do not accept this amendment, but here I am going to repeat it again because of all those present, but also because of our citizens who may still be following and listening at this moment. So this isn't absolutely about removing the credit support measure, it's just about moving this measure from one kind of incentive to another kind of incentive. So it's no longer a measure of direct payments, it's a measure of rural development. In this way, we are actually coordinating the systematisation of these measures with the common agricultural policy and with the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. So credit support remains as a measure of strength. Nothing changes except this formal shift from a direct payment to a rural incentive measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42854	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Gordana Komic. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42855	Thank you. Article 2 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development deals with the deadlines within which incentives are granted, and thus changes from the existing deadline: "on the day of 31 March of the current year", to replace it with the words "on the day of 30 October of the previous year". As there were many good reasons for this to be March 31st of the current year, there is no reason for such a change. The question that inevitably arises, when we look at the Ministry's budget for 2015, we see that there was insufficient budget planning, which is neither criticism nor anything, it happens to everyone with the budget, but if and when this law comes into force, de facto, who can read the Encouragement Act and who knows how it works, there will be no direct incentives for the 2016 sowing, but only payment for 2015. It's not good for anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42856	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42857	When it comes to the deadline mentioned in Amendment 2 and a few further amendments, they treat the question of the deadline of 30 September. So we have proposed that deadline precisely because it is seen as a problem in budget planning. So, we've been planning the budget so far, and we didn't know how many users we'd have. So now we're planning to, and next year, users are signing up. It was every year that we had much more demands than we were defined under the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. So that we can plan well enough, we now suggest that the intersection be in this year as the basis for next year's payment. This, of course, does not mean that someone will be denied, with newly registered owners getting incentives every year. They mean, from one year to the next. In this way we provide certainty, ensure the possibility of planning, and that is the case in the countries of Europe. So this year, subsidies are paid for the previous year. For this reason and for the necessity to respect the Budget Law, to respect available resources, we are simple for these reasons and we have proposed these changes. It is not true that farmers will not receive subsidies in 2016, they will receive subsidies, the transitional provisions make that clear, with the payment starting significantly earlier in this next 2016. So, subsidies when it comes to plant production will already be paid in March of the month, February-March of the month, so that those farmers will come when they need them most, when they're getting repro material for spring sowing. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42858	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, with two corrections, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The government accepted the amendment with the first amendment, and did not declare the last correction of the amendment. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42859	This amendment, correction with correction, is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42860	I find the Minister accepted the amendment with the correction on behalf of the Government. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42861	I thank the Government and the Minister. What I want to ask our political inconceivables is, are they against themselves? Do they want what they didn't want a few hours ago? Are they against it to comply with the dates and to get our farmers, as planned, an increased subsidy compared to the plan for this year, on time or before the sowing? I'd like to know if our political insinuators think that rural development funds should come to our farmers, including women on a proposal from the Women's Network? We just heard that they are generally against reducing incentives in agriculture. This is a proposal for a proposal to a member of the 8th budget, where she asked that the division of the ministry be reduced by three billion, and that the incentive, therefore, that the same one that requested that the funds not be reduced, her amendment to the budget required that the incentive by 24 billion fall to 22, not to end it in the pockets of our peasants, brothers in torment, brothers in sweat, brothers in blisters, but to end it in another position. It also proposed that funds for rural development, including traditional food-prepared techniques, as proposed by the Women's Network and which should be incorporated into the Regulation, should not come from 2,800 million to less by two billion. So I'd like to know, should we expect that when they propose a reduction to come by tractor tomorrow and have the proposing come here and park the tractor and say, "Now I'm not for who I am?"
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42862	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Would you like a word, Miss Miladinovic? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42863	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues from the Ministry, good morning to you. The new day started almost three hours ago. I'd like to explain the amendment to Article 2 I've submitted. I proposed using data from the register at the end of the 30th September of the previous year when deciding on incentives for plant production. I proposed this deadline so that budget incentives could be planned in good time, but also avoided problems in the realization of approved incentives. The ministry recognized the problem, and in previous years we had as a problem that at the moment of budget adoption, there was no accurate knowledge of how many owners of registered people could apply for incentives. A colleague, Marijan Risticevic, submitted a similar amendment and his amendment was adopted. It is a broader context covered, but it certainly proposed a reduction, i.e. a shift in deadline by 30 September and we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42864	Thank you, Mrs. Miladanovic. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic, master of Dr Blagoja Bradić, Miroslav Marinkovic and Dusan Petrovic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42865	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister of Agriculture, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, so the moment in which we submitted the amendment to Article 2 is in the integral text that we received the law, it figured the date of 30 October of the previous year and that is the first day of the year, and we asked for an amendment to 31. The amendment submitted by my colleague seems to me, Stefana, I apologize if I have made a mistake, and colleagues Risticevic, fully satisfy a new procedure for the planal determination of subsidies and, if I understand correctly, in Article 18 of the transitional and final provisions for this year will be taken into account the state of the cut on December 31st. The remark that I have is that it is still a small deadline because we have 15 days left by the end of the year and I would ask the Minister that, since we can support this approach by solving the problem of subsidisation, that in the means of public information, the maximum people are informed, in order to get this factual state as a reality. Otherwise, as far as this member of the planning is concerned, it means regression, it's a good thing because we'll know three months earlier what's waiting for us next year. It's not going to happen like this year that nearly nine billion and 700 million are missing. Whether for these or those reasons, but certainly we were all unprepared, i.e. The ministry may have been unprepared or the producers were faster than we expected it to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42866	Time. Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, the magistrate of Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Gordana Komic. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42867	Your Honor, Madam Minister, this is one of the three members we demand to delete the entire law. In this article, it says that farmers will receive only the funds they have in the budget, while the funds are in the budget, in the order they apply for. We believe that this is excellent ground for some different malfeasances, that it will probably, as it usually happens in a system that is established in the previous three years in Serbia, be farmers who will be a little better informed than other farmers, who will always be in a position to get incentives and be farmers who will not be in a position to get incentives. Thus, the system “whoever before a girl to him” simply cannot function in the business of which lives depend, the existence of these people, their families, of which their overall incomes depend, and indeed their survival and their overall functioning depend. We propose that this member be deleted because we believe that the system you are making is unfair, that it pleases the development of corruption. We believe that there will be privileged farmers, we believe that there will be those who will know everything in advance, who will have help in reporting. We believe there's gonna be a malfeasance about who checked in. So if you don't provide incredible control systems or if you don't, because it's no mystery how many people will apply for these incentives, if there's that much money in the budget, then they can all get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42868	Time. Thank you. By amendment, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42869	Mr. Chairman, until the vote of the Encouragement and Rural Development Act, you know the situation in agriculture, at least when the incentives are at stake. Agricultural producers did not know that next year they would neither be incentives, nor how much they would be, all of which depended on the government's will and will of the restoring minister. I am sorry that Mr Dusan Petrovic is not here now because at the time I was an opposition MP, we had tractors on the Pančeva Bridge from all over because people simply didn't know if there would be any incentive that year and it was the discretionary right of the minister. As soon as something discretionary is the right of the minister and not the matter of the law, there's a place for corruption, there's space to be shared partyically, to be shared cousinly, to be divided in different ways. The Serbian Progressive Party didn't want anything like that. We passed this law at a time when the Minister of Agriculture was SNS Vice-President Goran Knezevic, because we wanted to give the farmers a message and send a message about what incentives these are, which is 5% of the budget, to show how much it is on the throat of cattle, how much it is per liter of milk, how much it is for the people in Serbia and agricultural producers. But when someone here wonders and says – this is bad, I will ask the amendments – is it bad that 38 agricultural combinations were destroyed in the AP Vojvodina between 2001 and 2012? Thirty-eight agricultural combinations. It has been liquidated, ladies and gentlemen, so finely managed by 109 agricultural goods and cooperatives, 109 agricultural goods and cooperatives – liquidated. Currently, in the AP Vojvodina by 2012, 20,000 rural houses were abandoned and empty, 200,000 hectares of the country suspectedly privatized, and that social property, plus 100,000 hectares of the cooperative country, 300 thousand hectares were privatised and the budget revenue was 50 million. I'm done, Mr. Becic. The real price of the 300,000 hectares is three billion euros. Where's the difference? Where's the responsibility? Who's the responsibility? At the government of Alexander Vukic or those people who run the Vojvodina today? Here, guess who runs the Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42870	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Just to let you know that you've wasted your time with the MPs' group. All you have left is part of the time of the authorised representative, about five minutes and 50 seconds. (Marco Djurisic, from the post: How much is left of the minister? Now you'll get information. We've got eight minutes left for the minister. I have already told the minister that four minutes will be used for two reports and two reports by Minister Tasovac. So, the minister has four minutes at her disposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić, Mr. Dr. Blagoje Bradić, Miroslav Marinković and Dusan Petrovic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42871	Dear Vice-President, dear Madam Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 3(3) in which we have said that after saying "full of those," the comma is replaced by a point and the rest of the sentence is deleted. What we wanted with these. In an explanation we received the answer that the Budget Law is clear that payment of incentives can only be paid up to the amount of resources available and that can be true. However, from the point of view of the legal solution to this decision, it means that anyone who has applied for the right to these funds, which is required to supplement the documents, or documents, is said in this article, will be paid if the funds are paid at the time of the completion of the documentation. This is completely legally unwarranted and we cannot support such a solution, because it creates space that certain documentation can stop in the administration, which is nothing new, and that regardless of the timely submission of the completed documentation at that time, for what reasons there is not enough funding, and if we have made a budget, then these funds are already segregated. One more thing I would like to say, because time allows me, you haven't been in this afternoon's debate in which I have proposed an amendment that transfers three billion and 200 million to the Ministry of Agriculture, which I asked, Minister Vujovic did not accept, from funds that are not imaginary, but were overestimated in the assessment of separation and that these funds be allocated to you so that you would have a communication and security to provide and pay for everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42872	Thank you. The People's MP, Lasslo Varg, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić, Dr Blagoje Bradić, Miroslav Marinković, Dusan Petrovic, Parliamentarian Laslo Varga, joint MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Pek, Anamarija Vicek and joint MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozinović, Aleksandra Jerkov and National MP Gordana Komic together. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42873	We have submitted an amendment to Article 4 which reads that article 4 is deleted. Article 4 The draft law is amended as Article 13. The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development relating to support for the implementation of the agricultural policy and rural development policy in the AP, the local self-government unit by making it more specific, i.e. in a clearer way, to which types of support can or cannot be determined by the authorities of the AP, units of local self-government. We have also received a supplement, it seems to me that Mr. Risticevic has given this amendment to Article 4, and he has partially solved this problem, but here he is carrying out a poor spirit of centralisation, planning on a local self-government. What do I mean? What I'm saying is that every local self-government knows and everyone who manages this Agricultural Fund, or agriculturals in a particular municipality, the local self-government unit has a chance to get to know it better and you'll allow it, respect and accept the perspective and what I think is better for that environment in which it lives. This section, which has been given, by amendment to Article 4, to prescribe the form and content of the programme of support for the position of the 3rd member as well as the form of the report of the 6th member's position, has practically led to the situation that local self-government is seeking consent from the Ministry in order to implement some measure that it certainly knows better how it works.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42874	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42875	Thank you. A member of the amendment and supplement that is essentially said that any other funding of incentives is being abolished whatever local self-government or funds are involved, or the circuit funds. That's what the de facto in this article says. We don't consider it a good solution. We have a lot of understanding why you choose one or the other. For real reasons, the context in which anyone who deals with agriculture is at stake when it comes to Serbia. In fact, we need at least two agricultural policies, because the conditions for applying good measures, regardless of whether they are incentives, development policies in agriculture, cooperativeness, whatever, are completely different in two parts of a single Serbia and third, but let's concentrate on this. But the idea is to make it impossible for the circuit and local funds to lend loans just worse than to leave the possibility with the awareness that not everyone can and that those who can't put pressure on the ministry, which is partly unsettled, but they feel an injustice because they live in some local self-government where they can, and 70 kilometers from them is local self-government. It can or live in Vojvodina, so it can, and in other parts of Serbia it can't. This is more of a bad message. From the entire list of problems you have when you allow as a ministry who has and who can, with all the problems that it produces from its own resources to give incentives and loans and aid to agriculture in ways that are differently regulated. This proposal to end this gives a great cause to all those who love a clear criticism that there is no strategy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42876	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42877	It is absolutely not true that we are removing the possibility of local self-government and the AP and future participation in the financing of agricultural producers. This option remains and is desirable through various measures of rural development. So what you said is absolutely not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42878	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 4. with correction. Here you go. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since Mr. Arpad was on his way, I signed an amendment to my amendment to satisfy the form, in fact, this amendment was an SVM. I'm obliged to say that. The amendment has already enabled the minister to support local self-government and AP but not in direct payments that farmers were not unequal, everything else is allowed. What does that look like? Why the increased control, I have to explain the 2012 election case in a local self-government run by still a party to the former regime. They have imported 240 cows, to us unknown races, which the people call “strengtheners. ” Of the 240 small cows, weighing about 350 kilograms, have died, so far, 225. All 240 cows, which cost 600,000 euros, the real price was double the price, someone installed themselves, were divided ahead of the election of members of the party of the former regime and their sympathisers. They were colored cows, yellow. Of the 240 pieces, 225 have died although now of these import cows, these little "strengths", there are 50 I will resign and no longer deal with politics. But they died because they were mated with the bull "rudolph", translated into Serbian, "mind" German. So the bodies were extremely large, like a chihuahua if they mated with a lion and that's why 225 cows died and we want it not to happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42880	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stosic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and the mg of Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42881	To Article 5, we are a moment, this is an adnment which, in essence, apart from erasing the "insurance service" is defined in Article 14 of the terms of credit. Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42882	Mrs. Komic, please, my mistake, you couldn't get the word, you don't have the time of the parliamentary group, and you're not the bearer of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42883	I'm sorry, I heard you were...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42884	But you signed up so... You were in the system and you signed up and I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42885	Mistakes happen. It's all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42886	The word has a folk MP Gordana Topic. Here you go, Mrs. Topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42887	Thank you. Article 5 of the amendment is deleted, the amendment requires the removal of the regression measure from the insurance of agricultural crops. This is, by the way, a new measure, an incentive for rural development, and we welcome it. We know what this measure would mean to our producers in last year's floods, when crops and orchards and animals died. I don't understand why this amendment, fellow DS MPs are asking for the incentive measure to be abolished by regressing the insurance of agricultural crops. We know that even a much more developed country in order to ensure the agricultural production of natural disasters has this protection measure, because there is no 100% protection against construction protection or protection against floods. For example, in Greece, France and Belgium, to the extent that there is great attention and protection of crops from disasters is one of the strategic measures to protect agricultural resources. This measure, introduced, is also in line with the EU's common agricultural policy measures this year. If we had abolished this incentive measure, farmers would have been left without funds to regress the insurance for fruits, crops, more annual plantings, devastations. We also know that our farmers supported this measure of government and that it means a lot to them. The role of the government and the ministry is to encourage agricultural production and to protect it from natural risks, so I do not understand this amendment by our fellow MPs from the DS, who are asking for our farmers to be denied this support. Personally and on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, we support the government's position not to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42888	Thank you, Mrs. Topic. The 6th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, master of Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Gordana Komic. The word has a master of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42889	Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, it is now my fault that there is no Mr Vujovic here, who on several occasions when we discussed the budget, said that the subsidies for agriculture will not be reduced. Since he's gone, I ask you to answer me, if in the previous law, it's written - the minimum amount of milk premium is 7 dinars, per liter of milk, and you're changing it now. Milk premiums are made up to 7 dinars per litre of milk, as it is not a reduction, because seven liters, seven dinars and up to seven dinars, is not the same thing at all. Seven dinars is seven dinars, and up to seven dinars, there could be zero dinars, one, three, five etc. I am afraid that what Mr Vujovic said and you, at the very least on several occasions when we discussed the budget, replicated the MPs and said that it was not true that the subsidies would be reduced to this, you are proposing to this member and you are actually reducing these subsidies, and then there are talk of some protests of farmers, which they might have been, so perhaps even now they would be protesting, only that the police let them out of the streets of their own. I don't know if you know that farmers have been on tractors for 16 days and 16 nights, where the police won't let them leave their villages, otherwise they'd be very happy to protest their despair over the law, about the agricultural land that's going to come here, I hope it won't come to New Year's Eve, because we have some indications, that in that case it would give up such a law, but simply explain to us how seven turned into seven and on which you claim that's not a reduction?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42890	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's how political insinuation in democracy can seek common solutions. If the proposal hadn't suggested reducing the agrarian budget in the budget by three billion, and a two-billion-dollar incentive, everything would have been fine. Maybe the premium would be more than seven dinars. But we won't look at those mistakes, it's a product when you're in the opposite of yourself, but let's just say that I support my amendment that the milk premium is determined from seven dinars, not seven dinars. So, it's worth looking for common solutions, and tomorrow will be the day when we decide and I will definitely vote for it, because I don't think we can provide enough adequate control in this year, which would assess the quality of the milk, and that the reference laboratory could confirm it in the case of the complaint, hence, and I am obliged to tell the farmers, that according to the incentive plan, they don't shrink, no matter what the suggestion was, that the reduction be met by every cow with 25 thousand dinars, every drowned bull with 10,000 dinars, every sow, sheep, all the incentives remain the same, with the view that before the sowings satisfy as many farmers and that this time before seeding on their request, they get what they've been getting for years after the sowing. I believe that this poor thing is a little bit of what we have, that we can share well and go out with farmers more satisfactorily than it has ever been before, and I'm obliged to say that we've paid a lot of debts from the past, and even non-commercial land, where it's been determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42892	Time. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić, master of Dr. Blagoje Bradić, Miroslav Marinkovic and Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42893	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the amendment that we have submitted to article 6 reads that words up to seven dinars are replaced by words of at least ten dinars. The reason for this is that the reference national laboratory has no capacity to work, it's not enough, because you have in the state of Serbia, but one laboratory in Novi Sad, you have one laboratory in Batajnica and you have 12 institutes, you have an institute for milk. So there's a rule book. Also, it may need to be innovated so that we don't get into a situation where aflatoxin from 0.05 increases to 0.5 or how it's appropriate to amortize some production error. So this isn't a criticism. I also thought that if you were to pay milk for the quality of 10 dinars, you would get the situation to be satisfied by both producers and you would have an important impact on improving the quality of milk, which would result in you being able to return aflatoxin to 0.05, because this is a condition that you can export and drive through EU member states. So, in best interest and best wishes, calculate, you'll see. I'm sorry, I say one more time, I tried to make you one 3.2 today, once 2.8 billion because I know the problem is money. That money was a problem and that this year you had a deficit of 9,700,000. So when you say it -- it's the same budget, it's bigger, but it wasn't enough this year for what we were supposed to pay for. It is not natural to expect that you will have more than 60% of next year, or 2016. I'll explain other measures later on about the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42894	Time, Mr. Marinkovic. Thank you. A colleague named Marjana Marash came forward, but your MP group has no more time available, as far as I have information. Here, the secretaries' colleagues say you've wasted your time. The authorised representative has two minutes and 25 seconds. There's no MP group. (Igor Becic, from the scene: There are two minutes I took by mistake. They've got two minutes. ) I apologize, here, Vice President Becic says there was a mistake. I apologize to the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group. Here's my colleague, Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42895	We accept the apology and thank Vice President Bečić for taking due note of the time left for our parliamentary group. We believe that this amendment should not be accepted for the reason that, as proposed, up to seven dinars of premiums are realistic and under the given circumstances it is feasible. This is practically a transitional model of milk depletion. And, as Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic said, the goal is to move on to the milk depletion model, which is to die according to the quality of the milk. To move on to this model that is the most representative model in EU countries, it is a condition to establish a reference national laboratory that will control the quality of milk and allow milk premiums to be given according to quality. This lab started over 10 years ago. Last year, as we know, there was a significant piece of equipment. It will begin with work, at full capacity, during the term of office of this government and this Ministry of Agriculture and environmental protection. How familiar I am with the requirement to establish a national laboratory for measuring the quality of milk is the requirement of the milk manufacturer and their associations. I've seen it in the media these days and it's a request from the Central Association of Milk Producers from Vojvodina. Therefore, the SPS parliamentary group supports such a policy of the government and the ministry and believes that this amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42896	I'd like to thank my colleague, Marash. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go, Dr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42897	Thank you, Your Honor. This time is a time when we can greet the dairy people. They're getting up at this hour. I also welcome our diaspora, and they can watch the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at this time. At this time, sometimes milkers in vessels called milkmaids, Minister Boskovic Bogosavljevic, were delivering milk, leaving it outside houses and apartments in the city. The milkers now look at the National Assembly and expect their milk incentives to be reduced by a liter of milk. You are early, Mrs. Bogosavljevic, or late, come to say that they will now have up to seven dinars instead of seven dinars. Well, my colleagues said it could be one dinar or two dinars, you have a hunch. So, for the next year, you predicted, or for the next period, that the milk incentives would be smaller. The turnaround movement can't agree with that, and when we're in a position to decide, and that's our amendment, it's to encourage nine dinars. Without nine dinars, we talked to farmers, people who do milk production, they can't survive and they won't be 222 cows, but most of the cattle fund, Mrs Bogosavljevic, if this is the measure left.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42898	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42899	I want to answer all the MPs, the messengers who spoke, and it concerns the milk premium. First of all, there will be no reduction in milk premiums, and in 2016 there will be seven dinars. We have suggested that there should be up to seven dinars because of the need to plan the budget, because each year the Budget Law provides us with certain resources for all types of incentives, the Government by a special regulation, by a special act by means of certain measures, determines the amount of funds. And when it comes to livestock, it is known that this government has made a great effort to support, in accordance with the opportunities available, cattle farming and to help, and we also have concrete results that I spoke about at the Assembly in principle, not to repeat, but what you pointed out to be seven, it will be seven. By the time we were seven, we said for the reason that we expect that the establishment of a national reference laboratory, i.e. those departments that will be involved in the examination of the quality of raw milk, should be completed very quickly. It will help us pay our dairy producers according to quality. I have to say that one huge number of manufacturers already has extra milk quality, and the other, a smaller number, which is not currently presently with this measure, we will encourage that they too tend to achieve extra milk as soon as possible. So this is encouraging for our producers and I am confident that as in Croatia, Hungary, 98% of our producers will have precisely this quality of milk in a very short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42900	Thank you. Both MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Gordana Komic submitted to the 7th amendment in the same text. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42901	Thank you. When we put the definition into the law and we know how to read those definitions, then if you put that minimum amount of six thousand dinars per hectare is replaced by up to six thousand dinars per hectare, it's five thousand 999 dinars. It can't be 6 grand, it's a problem with the law reading, it's also with the milk. If it's up to, then the last integer is before, it could be point 99. It's very nice to hear from you today that there's going to be a payoff for the sowing and there's seven dinars left, but then that brings out meaning from these provisions that you've put in place as changes and additions. If there will be seven, then the expression – up to seven for the previous, or up to six thousand dinars per hectare in this one doesn't make sense. If it's budget planning, then you leave these people in suspense, because if it's up to 6,000 dinars per hectare to farmers 5,999 it can be 5,500. If the government, if we can't plan the budget, how will they plan it? I don't mind that every government has its own strategy, its own short- and medium-term objectives, but every government, whether I'm an opposition to it or I support it, with when it comes to agriculture, should really have a lot more dialogue, you shouldn't give these formulations. I hope that the Minister's public word is enough, because I have no reason to doubt her credibility and that indeed, at least for 2016 there will be six thousand – six thousand, not 5,999, as well as previously publicly modified information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42902	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42903	I used to sit here sitting in a bench checking my second or third grade knowledge. Dear colleague Komic is closest to the title and knowledge in the field of mathematics, and she explained that the set of numbers is up to 6,000 – 5.999. Excuse me, Mr. Mijatovic, you could've confirmed that for me. So, Mrs. Bogosavljevic, you've told one lie. You said the incentives would be for milk, just now, seven dinars, and incentives for farmers, for a set of 6,000 dinars. I can't, because you'd do the opposite of the law, because they have to be at least a few less. Farmers will have less incentive to sow. They'll have to have it under this law, Mrs. Bogosavljevic. Just don't tell me up to six thousand -- six thousand. Well, that's not it, Mrs. Bogosavljevic. The PRECRET movement advocates that seed incentives are 9,000, because it is a sustainable formula, that peasants stay in their villages, that young people stay in villages, that our villages don't relax. It's the only way, Mrs. Bogosavljevic. If you came here this morning and you realize it and go to your office tomorrow with that knowledge that you can't reduce incentives if you want the Serb village to disappear. Mrs. Bogosavljevic, pass it on to Mr. Wolfich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42904	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Minister, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42905	Dear MPs, I cannot understand the need for certain MPs to say that I said what I didn't say. I wasn't talking about the incentives in the plant production, or that it would be 6,000, or that it would be 5,000. The law is clear and there are clear reasons why we had to bring these amendments and additions to the law. The only thing I'm saying is that when it comes to milk premiums, it is by law up to seven dinars. I expect and I am convinced that it will be seven dinars, because we have introduced this provision to, for the reason that we expect it to start working very quickly for a laboratory to examine the quality of raw milk. I must say, I am very sorry that I cannot accept your amendment, which I cannot accept Mr. Marinkovic's amendment. I'm sorry I'm not a minister 10, 15 years ago. I am sorry that I am not the Minister of Agriculture and that Serbia, such as Austria, is Hungary. I am sorry that at this point in the previous year and a half it has been my responsibility to focus my professional skills on helping Serbia's agricultural production. We inherited a lot of things, among other things, and started but not a finished laboratory to examine the quality of raw milk. And today someone is giving himself the right to ask why we're doing it now, why we didn't do it, why our milk is of this kind or that quality, why we don't export it to the EU, etc. I have to tell you, you had a chance, some had a chance, they didn't take it well enough. We now have, it's really huge energy, huge enthusiasm, huge work and I believe that we will succeed, just as I just said earlier, as our fellow countrymen in the environment, to achieve this top quality [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: The replica does not last two minutes?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42906	Time. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. Djurishic, but some DS deputies spoke for two and a half minutes. We're a little intolerant, because the debate is going... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I am this to two minutes, and some are of two. () When the debate goes in a democratic spirit, I think we can all be tolerated. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42907	When someone turns once, they change position by 180 degrees. I may understand that, but when someone turns twice in a few months, it means, 180 degrees again, so it's back to the old ones, so since the amendment promoter is back to the old ones, I have to remind him that this is, that we're slowly coming to New Year's and Christmas holidays, and that Christmas bat is very popular, and it's going to be even more popular, but that doesn't mean that one of the MPs, especially not the amendment promoter, is going to be the brother Christmas, so now he's saying, what seven dinars for milk, so nine, to round to ten, what we care about, broad. But no one asks, and I ask the amendment promoter – from which, from what means? From what he turned one time and turned one more time? He can't answer us, why did he destroy 38 agricultural combinations in the AP Vojvodina in that turn? Why did he liquidate 109 agricultural goods and cooperatives? Why was 20,000 rural houses abandoned, all in Vojvodina? Why is 200,000 ha of social property, land of social property and 100,000 ha of cooperative property sold for 50m euros, and in reality three billion euros cost that property? Why did agricultural participation in GDP fall from 22% to 12%? Why did he lead to a debt on interest that is even 7%?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42908	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42909	One sentence, Mr. Becic, please. Do you know, respected agricultural producers, where your incentives are? They're not in that sack of Christmas bats here from the National Assembly, they're on missed occasions and in the interest we have to pay back next year, which was owed by the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42910	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. He didn't mention you. I have not heard of Mr Babic – Mr Janko Vesenović. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Did I mention him? Here you go, Mr. Arsic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You can't both. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42911	Take this time away from me. I can't talk. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Would you allow him to speak according to the amendment and spend time on an authorised representative of the SNS, which has not been spent? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42912	Please, the authorised representative has five minutes and 50 seconds left. He can use that time. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I was speaking in line.) ) Mr. Babic's got a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42913	I must say, in one part of your exposure, you were wrong and the amendment should certainly not be accepted. You were wrong when you said they had their chance and they didn't take advantage of it. They took advantage of her very well. Very, very good, but not to improve agricultural production, but to improve themselves, by filling their pockets. I find it very funny and very pathetic when someone stands up for agricultural producers, and only five or six years ago, the processing industry in Serbia was completely destroyed. In Serbia's territory, without the AP Vojvodina, you have only one slaughterhouse that meets the HCCP standards. All the others were sold out, destroyed, blown up, like you were throwing bombs. When you don't have a slaughterhouse industry, you don't have a meat-processing industry that works in agricultural production, you don't have any livestock, and when you don't have livestock, then your warlords become victims of speculators, and then here you fight for these same warlords, and you shove them into the hands of speculators, the same speculators that make them go out on the streets today with tractors, who robbed them and the state. You, it is you. (National MP Miroslav Marinkovic throws out of place. ) You did the same thing to Micovic who closed the slaughterhouses so that some others could do...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42914	Please, Mr. Marinkovic, let him finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42915	Don't mind them too much. Their time has passed, and the time for Serbia is yet to come and all the happiness that theirs has passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42916	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic, Mr. Blagoje Bradić, Miroslav Marinkovic and Dusan Petrovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42917	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have submitted an amendment to Article 7 and it says that the amount of up to six thousand dinars per hectare is replaced by the words "in a minimum amount of eight thousand dinars per hectare". The explanation for this measure is very simple. If you've made a budget that says it's going to pay off while there's money, then there's two scenarios, but I'd just say it doesn't matter if the time is over, it's how time goes by. To help the Minister of Agriculture, since she told me that some had the opportunity, that I had the opportunity in 2007 and 2008 to be the Director of the Veterinary Administration, the result of June 1, 2007, the state of Serbia received five export licences for five cattle exports to the EU market. So, from the EU, I signed it. You've got the paperwork. Please check me out and tell me I didn't tell the truth. In December, Serbia was granted a license to transport milk through EU member states. It means Russia. Aflat toxin 0.05% was then introduced because it was a condition. In 2003, I negotiated it, and you can check it in the documentation, that famous quota of 10,000 tonnes of june meat for export to the European market, which has been granted to us by the Association of Cattle Breeders of the Simental Race of Bavaria, and for information to a fellow Member. So, the conditions are created, are they done?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42918	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42919	The milk couldn't be exported if it wasn't examined in the labs. The lab was working at the institute for... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42920	I have to stop you. Time's up. (Miroslav Marinkovic: Just one sentence. Here you go, re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42921	So it was necessary to maintain. So much for me. I was a 13-month head of the Veterinary Authority. So I did my part of the job. This is not the intention of respecting you. You are, unfortunately, the hostage of the Ministry of Finance. I know you do, because I know you personally, and we've talked 100 times. So, you can't develop agriculture by today, because you've had 9,700,000 thousand less...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42922	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42923	... You have to pay three thousand to the producers, and that will make you say it. I'm sorry that you're a very valuable expert who could have helped this agriculture, but in the right way, with the right understanding of the government, where we tried to help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42924	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. This was more of a sentence. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42925	Dear MP, Mr Marinkovic, I truly respect all your efforts and contribution to your agriculture, but since you've listed the years when you were able to do something more, given your function in the Department of Veterinary, but you haven't told us about the year 2008 who negotiated such bad deadlines for the liberalisation of the agricultural market, and among other things, the problem awaited me last year and this year. It is nice that you have managed to bring the certificates into line, to agree on a procedure for exporting meat to the EU market. It's really all about praise, but it was supposed to be parallel to taking care of the stock fund, not that our cattle were falling drastically, and that we were now trying to get it out of the ashes. Since you're a veteran, since we're related to our professions, we know how much it takes sometimes, when a stock fund is destroyed, or when it goes down to some level, time to raise. Thank you for your efforts to give us more resources, as the Ministry of Agriculture, and for the needs of the agricultural budget. Let no one think here from the MPs that each of us ministers didn't want to and didn't ask for any more. Let no one think that the Minister of Finance and the whole government didn't exactly want to meet us, but the question is, why do we now have such small opportunities, which is why we have big loans, interest rates, large debts that we inherited, why do we have to carry out fiscal consolidation measures? So, you're a little bit of an opportunity...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42926	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42927	... I'm not thinking about you personally again, but we've inherited a little of what we can use right now. The only thing we can do with this persistent work and enthusiasm is make up for what's been missed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42928	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42929	Madam Minister, when I listen to the subject of the amendment, I admire him. I should admire him because at the time when he was director of the Republic Veterinary Administration, they imported mine. You know what it is – machine-cleaned meat, but it was such a quality and so regularity that it could serve only for animal nutrition, meaning zoos, and it was packed to our children in pate and salami. How can you not be ashamed?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42930	Thank you. (Miroslav Marinkovic, from town: Replica. You're not mentioned. No mention of your name or name. He mentioned some expressions I don't understand. The 7th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42931	This article speaks of a sum of six thousand dinars per hectare for subsidies. We believe that more incentives per hectare should be removed, incentives should already be introduced per product. I think it's fairer, because nowhere in the world there are incentives per hectare and nowhere in the developed world is the subject being encouraged, but the product itself. We must introduce a category of agricultural products that are subsidized because it is not the same hectare of raspberries or hectares of wheat. It can never be the same. Our farmers should be encouraged to produce as much product as possible and to improve quality, and thus producers will also try to produce as much goods as possible. Otherwise, this member and the same member refer to the next member, so I won't explain the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42932	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42933	First, I should like to commend the minister and her associates that this morning they are here in so many numbers. Of course, we support the text proposed, and we do not support giving the amendment, for the reason that subsidies should be invested in the creation of the product, not to grant subsidies after the product obtained. Then, because the goal is likely to be even regional development, then reducing the difference between the north and south, giving small producers up to 20 hectares. The aim is to place the largest number of agricultural producers in office to produce for themselves and for the state, and not to be social cases. That's why there's big progress in a law like this that takes care of these facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42934	I thank you, Mr. Mihajlovic and the SPS are out of time. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck, and Anamaria Vicek. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes,) Here you are, Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42935	Yes, I won't mention anyone's names, but it can be a shame to anyone who votes for this bill. It could be...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42936	Come on, Mr. Veselinović, insulting the MPs all day long, I think that... I can't let you go if you insult the People's Messengers, this is 16 hours as we do in the sixteenth hour you insult the People's Messengers. No, that's the way, Mr. Veselinovic. I ask you to adjust the dictionary and respect your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42937	So, an unequal relationship between the government and the opposition is an old thing. So, with this bill, Mrs Bogosavljevic, farmers will have fewer premiums, I 1, 2, 3, thousand dinars, we'll see, but you've introduced an opportunity to cut premiums. And these current premiums were insufficient, and they weren't paid in time. Six months late premium. Maybe now that the premiums are 1,000 dinars per hectare, they'll be paid in time. Maybe that's your goal, but then you'll have no one left to pay. Our agriculture is uncompetitive, our farmers are uncompetitive, because other countries take care of their agricultural producers, their plant producers and livestock production. If we pass this law, in fact if you vote for this law we will have a big problem with agriculture. We're going to have a big problem with agriculture, the fact that people are going to be uncompetitive. What's that gonna mean? It means that they will leave the village, that our villages will relax, accept the amendment to the Turnover Movement, accept the increase of incentives, protect the Serb village. You fight, I believe you have good intentions, I have not disputed it. To have good intentions, fight with the Prime Minister, whom farmers have somehow played the last hole in the play. Why? I don't know. Ask him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42938	Thank you. I ask the MPs to make sure he's actually with us today, I don't even know how to call the time that's going on, but that he's with us in the O.R. and the Minister of Culture and that they're handling each other accordingly. The word has a minister, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42939	Your Honor, I want to tell you that it is absolutely not true that this government's agriculture was the last hole in the play, as you said. This government has indeed worked very hard to support and assist agriculture as much as possible. As one piece of evidence, I'm just going to say that, last year we were assigned additional funds, four and a half billion, somewhere at this time. These are the funds that we spent on the payments of the subsidies of arrears. This year, additional funds, nine billion and 700 million are redefined. So the very large funds are additionally added to agriculture. Not only that, this government wants to stimulate livestock production, the production it inherited at the historic minimum. You know that last year we adopted an increase in the amount for those measures that encourage livestock production. In this year, we paid almost two billion more based on these measures than in 2014. We paid 100 million more premiums than in 2014 and we have results in this regard and in stopping the decline of the stock fund and in increasing and producing milk and meat production. So, the results are there and don't forget, we are working late and long, but don't forget those measures that the government took when it was meant to protect milk producers, and you know that when the surplus milk came up, the additional funds were allocated from the budget to buy out market surpluses. When problems with pig placement occurred, additional funds from the budget to buy out, so pigs could simply continue their production. Not to talk about what we had to import, thanks to some who were not responsible enough for the agrarian during the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42940	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42941	Since we've already moved to the field of tobacco musical instruments and I believe that when it comes to musical instruments, when it comes to Philharmonic, Mr. Tasovac will tell us much better about it. But here I see a nervousness because someone played their own in a political sense and then just nervousness to find a new victim or some new pulsism to kill some voice. But I can't hear the answer – why did he allow 20 thousand rural houses to be left in Vojvodina? Why did he allow 109 agricultural goods and cooperatives to be liquidated? Why did he help destroy 38 agricultural combinations? Why did he allow and participate in the participation of agriculture in GDP from 22% to 12%? Why did he let every third privatisation be cancelled? Why did he allow sugar in Kovacica to be sold at 181 hectares with six tail combinations for three euros or about 0.2 euro per hectare? He did all of this while he was in charge and he was helping out with Bojan Pajtic's regime, and he's helping him now, but while he was helping out with the same kind of air within the same party, he let nothing happen to anyone. Now, respected agricultural producers, here's where your money went. Here's where the incentive money went. Here, if it weren't for that kind of pest policy, as much as you would, but all the other citizens would have.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42942	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Jovanovic, just so I can see the basis, you as head of the parliamentary group, actually the deputy head of the parliamentary group have two minutes and 25 seconds left. It's the only time you have. Now, you're looking for a replica, but you have to tell me the basis, because I haven't seen the basis. (Nedjo Jovanovic: All the MPs are mentioned, that they should be ashamed. ) You can't do this, you still have to use the time of the head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42943	I thank you, Chairman. It is legitimately the right of the opposition to criticise the government, but it is not legitimate to insult, and especially to insult the MPs in words that all of us should be ashamed to vote for these laws. This is one harsh insult for two simple reasons. The first reason is that the government, whose sector is also represented by the respected minister Boskovic Bogosavljevic, has contributed to opening chapter 35 soon and Serbia is approaching the EU. The government has contributed to Serbia raising its international reputation and credibility. The government has also contributed to the fact that agriculture, as a segment that was under the glass of the European community, which has been under a number of screenings, numerous quality checks and progress in agricultural activity, has reached a level of value for the EU's attention. Is that why it should be a shame for us MPs to vote in favour of this law, as well as for the budget and all the other laws that we are discussing today? No, Chairman, we won't be ashamed. We will vote with full pride, as will the entire coalition, for a full set of these laws. With pride that we expect Serbia, not only to go the right way towards the EU, but also to join the EU and become an equal member of it, regardless of what it is obviously to someone, who knows what kind of, or personal or other reasons it bothers them. On the contrary, we will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42944	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojdinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic, Mr. Blagoje Bradić, Miroslav Marinkovic and Dusan Petrovic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42945	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Madam Minister and Minister of Culture, fellow Members and fellow MPs, this is the last amendment we have submitted and it is said to be replaced by 8,000 dinars in paragraph 3. Why is this done? In today’s debate, we also had a debate on the Excise Act. I don't know if you know it, but I'd like you to know that. So, fuel will pick up a lot of impulses in agricultural production. I'd like to ask you, I'm sorry we need to cross the spear today in these tiny hours. You deserve to talk a lot longer and at a more polite time. But that's our destiny and what you need to know, is that the impulses in agricultural production are already higher, not by our will but by the will of the market and the many conjectures of the circumstances, and perhaps by misjudges. That won't be enough for the producers anyway. I don't want to comment or say anything. I'm very sorry that you 2012 census didn't look to see that there were a million cattle, and the list of fellow agronomists executed. Where have 300,000 cattle been missing since 2012? I wouldn't want to deepen. I wish you good luck because this year you're going to need her very much. First for the EU, because all that we have negotiated, including me and my colleagues after me, are the preconditions for you to say today – we will go to the EU. Agriculture has already gone to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42946	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word is made by Minister Snezana Boskovic Bogosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42947	Thank you. Thank you, dear colleague, but I have another one to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42948	You have one minute and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42949	When it comes to statistics that you mention, you need to know that we are processing data, that is, using data from official institutions, the Federal Bureau of Statistics, the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance and, of course, other relevant institutions. You should also know that it's ours, which I've already pointed out, that we really wanted more and more, but our options are as big as they are. You should also know that what used to be our predecessors ten years ago, we can't now. You say we're gonna need luck. Yes, of course, we will need both happiness and intelligence and wisdom and skill. We are aware that we have little opportunities, but we will try to use European funds. You know about this IPAR program. You know that many of us have tried, worked before, but failed to make it come true. We will focus on making better use of those resources that have not been used well so far. For that very reason, we have also proposed amendments to the Agricultural Land Act. We want what didn't go to the state register to be in the state register, to be in favour of agriculture. So, along with the European funds, with better use of available resources, they took money, took projects from the EU, and eventually left it unformed. I feel like someone didn't want it to end. Do you know how much it would help us if we had it before, how much would it help if we had a better quality of milk? Well, our farmers know how to work and they want to work. They just need to be further stimulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42950	Time, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42951	If they know that they will be paid by quality, they will surely respect it. A lot of chances are missed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42952	Thank you, Madam Minister. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond. Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. They're not in the O.R. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42953	This is one of the last amendments I've submitted on behalf of the Turnover Movement, and it's an attempt to save what can be saved. This amendment is aimed at encouraging, i.e. the state's participation in the regression of crops, droughts, floods. Mrs Bogosavljevic, I teach in the agro-economic direction and I have had the opportunity to participate both as a mentor and as a member of the commission in the works concerning the insurance of crops, fruits, long-term plantings. You know the situation in that area is mildly said disastrous. It's not just the work of this government. So it's the state incentives, it's insurance, insurance houses, and when some students were supposed to go and analyze the percentages of secured crops, they didn't have to go to which insurance house. Some insurance houses have abolished the crop insurance departments. Why? Because they don't have enough insurance cases and it's not worth it. Where's the responsibility? Responsibilities are on four sides, on the needy farmers who do not know what it means to provide fruit and crops. In America, ice cream also provides a risk of raining during the summer, so they won't be able to sell ice cream. They don't know, so they're not educated. He needs education, and that's what he needs to invest in. We need to talk to the insurance companies about the subject. We need to talk to the farmer's association, to cooperatives that aren't there.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42954	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42955	What is it, ma'am, Bogosavljevic, with the cooperative law? Here, I ask you, give me, please, an answer. The fourth is the state. What I'm talking about right now, an increase in incentives. This would be one way to stimulate farmers, without these three key factors, there's none of it, I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42956	Time, Mr. Veselinovic. Thank you. Replica, Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic. You're mentioned by name and last name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42957	Let me just say briefly that I agree with you that it is necessary for farmers to provide their crops to a greater extent, to secure their resources for work, and it is true that we have a very small percentage of those who are being provided. We are really trying to speak from the level of the ministry and from the level of our agricultural advisory services and to simply educate farmers that it is necessary to ensure, that it is important and that it is good, that it is the safety of their product. I don't think our farmers have taken this seriously enough, because somehow every time any damage happens, they come to the state, they come to us at the Ministry, they want damage compensation, and they know that the state always comes out, but we're not always able to compensate to the extent that they expect us to do it. As for your proposal, the percentage of insurance, i.e. the premium of insurance premiums, or the regression of insurance premiums, should be increased from 40 to 50%. We can simply interpret this in context and those previous amendments of yours, why up to six thousand, make it up to eight thousand. Why don't we make it to 10 dinars by 7:00? It's simple, I think it's more populist, as your fellow MPs have said, to say that you will, and now we don't give anything. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42958	Thank you, Mrs. Boskovic. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. They're not in the O.R. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic and joint MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lasslo Varg. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. They're not in the O.R. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I would like to thank Minister Snezani Bogosavljevic Boskovic for his participation in today's debate, this morning's debate. I thank the members of her cabinet. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st and 2nd amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Vesna Marjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Dusan Petrovic, master of Dr Blažja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42959	Thank you, Chairman. We have proposed one technical amendment and one, according to us, a very important, essential amendment in the first Article of the Bill on the Amendment of the Law on Public Media Services. The first is to delete the words "partially finance" because we consider it excessive. The funding is scheduled for part of the budget and part of the subscription. We don't question that. We think this formula is better. But a much more important second position, which says: “Taxes, which under the Law on Broadcasting, regularly reconciled the obligation to pay radio-television subscription to public broadcasting services, are exempt from the obligation to pay public media service fees up to the amount of radio-television subscription paid during the period from 1 June 2013 to the date of entry into force of the Law on Public Media Services. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Why did we propose this? In May 2013, the vice-president of the then government, and now the Prime Minister, said the subscription was lifted, the SNS kept its pre-election promises and there are no subscriptions. Unfortunately, it's only been a year since the law and, I think, two months later. It took place a year and two months later, as it is now being implemented that since January 1st, not a subscription, but a tax. Now, some people stopped paying the subscription, thinking, believing what Mr. Vukic said, and some of them, reading the law, were paying. They paid for a year and two months, until that subscription ended up falling below 30%. We suggest that those people, since no one, of course, is saddened, that those who paid and respected the law are now rewarded and that in the next period, that is, how much they subscribed at that time, that this is to them as a tax credit account.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42960	Time. Thank you. Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42961	The payment of a television subscription by August 2014 was a legal obligation. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Did you pay? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42962	Please, Mr. Djurishic, do not enter the word of Mr. Minister. He's trying to give you an answer to your question. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I'm just asking. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42963	Yes, and as you know very well, the Law on Broadcasting also envisioned the possibility of a court dispute. So that's what the facts are. As far as this first formulation is concerned, I just think it's just a dilemma. That's where we're really getting along.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42964	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42965	What better will you do than when you get the support of the MPs who do not support the government, so when verbally, publicly at the National Assembly Hall, they say, Alexander Vukic respects what he promises, he abolished the TV subscription. Well, even when they say, we resent, you know, why he did it a year later. And that's the same people who have imposed different taxes on citizens for 12 years, different obligations, different subscriptions. Now, for 12 years, they haven't thought of anything less, and then, my God, they resent whether in so many hours, it's in four hours and 43 minutes or 46 minutes. I am truly grateful to the amendment's promoter, because he confirmed that the SNS and, primarily, Alexander Vukic meet those obligations and those promises we made in the election campaign. That is why we have this support that we have with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and you who for 12 years have just imposed some new taxes and some new obligations, and now you just put a stopwatch in your hand, so whether the obligation is fulfilled in that or in that minute. We have fulfilled our obligations and thank you for those words that you have confirmed that the SNS has fulfilled its promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42966	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Parliamentarians Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42967	Does this mean that the Turnover Movement is honored to close this discussion on amendments? No, well, if he's not here, Mr. Tasovac, Mr. Mirkovic, here's a proposal in line with the name of a twist. We have a very honest proposal. I think Serbia's citizens would agree with him if they called a referendum. The amendment is very clear. From 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016, the public media institution RTS and the public media institution RTV are partly financed from the budget for political parties under the Law on the financing of political parties, and as the basis of participation in financing, participation will be taken and this representation in Dnevnik 2 RTS. For the missing funds needed for the functioning of independent reporting services, the funds of the political parties for 2016 will be reduced in accordance with the position of the 2nd member. What does that mean? Wolfie, you want to go to Dnevnik 2, pay. Stefanovic, you want to go to Dnevnik 2, Nebojsa Stefanovic's salary from the SNS budget. Of course, and all the others who will. Hey, buddy, you want to go to another diary instead of the advertising block? Pay up. Janko, pay up. It's a very fair suggestion. So Dnevnik 2 has become a marketing space, we'll get out of the budget for the marketing of political parties. I see Mr. Tasovac is ready to accept this. I hope Mr. Bujosevic doesn't mind that proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42968	Time, thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42969	I must tell you that the public interest defined among other things by the Law on Public Services implies the production of cultural, educational content and entertainment content. I can't take this any different than a joke. Because it just seems to me that, you know, the moment the state pulls out of the media ownership structure, we invent the idea that political parties directly finance public services. I can only imagine what that document would look like that we should send to Brussels for coordination. So I just have to tell you that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42970	Please, Mr. Veselinović, have an elementary culture, don't enter the minister's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42971	Yeah, and don't mind me saying I didn't go into your word. So it just seems, I mean, like "Moity Peyton's Flying Circus."
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42972	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42973	I see here two challenges for the adoption of this amendment. It's like this for the first reading. I see one challenge in the fact that Bojan's party has something to do with it, not that it's not, but it's got nowhere to come from. It's got something to do with it, which means all those assets that they've acquired against the law through different constructions of a Hetherland or things like that. So, the plugs are full, but they don't have where they came from, because their account is blocked, and they have a series of irregularities that have been identified by the DRI. One Janko, I can tell you nothing, and there's no where. There's no where because... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42974	Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42975	Of course, we're talking about Bojan, about Jank, you know... He's got nothing, and he's got nowhere to go, so he doesn't have a party. This for citizens' associations for such, some, butterfly-loving societies, and so on, I think it would be a little embarrassing to put everything in this bill and this amendment. So I can't see how they can handle it. Those who have nothing to do with it, and they have no where, or what, Janko, who has nothing to do with it. How's he gonna do it then without talking about parting the public service that way? Please, it's not one step back, it's miles and miles in the freedom of the media. So still, let's stay away from this Moity Python circus and agree with you, Mr. Tassovac, with your thinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42976	Professor Dr. Janko Veselinović, replication of the name and last name. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Who? Janko who? Then I apologize. You didn't mention the name of Janko Veselinović. I'm sorry, then you don't have the right to a replica. No mention of your name, mentioning Jank in some context to another. At the second amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic, joint MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Vesna Marjanović. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42977	I'd just have to work out a little more of this previous proposal, because, then, would that mean that, according to that number of representations, minutes would also form public service boards.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42978	Thank you. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslava Marinković, Dusan Petrovic, master of Dr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42979	Article 2 of this law on entry into force says that rather than as the Constitution says on the eighth day following its publication, it should enter into force the next day. I'm totally vague about that rush. In his explanation, he said the law must enter into force before 1 January. Well, if we adopt him today, he'll be in effect by December 20th. So there is no reason to violate the constitutional provision of a minimum of eight days to pass when a law is published in the Official Messenger until it enters into force. It is good that citizens can hear and know that promises are being fulfilled, because as of January 1st, they will have a tax on public media services, they will have a excise tax, they will have bigger taxes, they will have farmers, we heard, less milk premiums, per hectare. So these are all the things that the citizens could hear, if anyone else is looking at this time of day or night, anyway, in the big fog. For the next year, it looks like it's going to be in the fog, and we won't see far, and we won't see that better future for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42980	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42981	I wanted to talk to the MP. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Here I am.) Thank you. It is therefore necessary to adopt a regulation that will enter into force by 1 January and that is why this amendment should enter into force immediately. Just another little detail. Just, carefully considering, I don't know if you've noticed these four billion out of Serbia's budget, they're just one relief for citizens who have to pay taxes, and something that has shown a practice unlike the ideas of these financing, that directly political parties finance public services, the moment when citizens themselves finance their public services, it contributes most and guarantees exactly the independence and quality of these services, and I hope that you share those beliefs. If you're in a hurry, have a good evening or a good morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42982	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42983	It's a full 19 hours' work. I am truly grateful to the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because they respected the National Assembly, respected the topic. I am also grateful to the Members of the People and to the MPs who have worked hard and diligently here for 19 hours, although some of the amendments were in the style of a song he perfectly composed, wrote, sang by our friend and fellow MP, and some of the amendments were in style—mother take me to May to Brione to see zebras and buffaloes, so these zebras and buffalo are these percentages, increases, and I don't know what. Everyone's right to talk about it whatever they want and what they want. Generally, Serbian citizens make a good difference between 7% of excise duties and 690% of the price of electricity, as honored by the former regime, to clearly distinguish between 150 dinars of taxis and 500 dinars of subscription, to clearly distinguish between the budget that is developmental and budget that will allow us to develop and grow GDP in the coming year, unlike years of devasting all values, that tomorrow, or today, already in a few hours, we will adopt this budget, which will contribute to the creation of new jobs in Serbia, that people in Serbia live better, that we can save not only through open chapters, but also through living standards, to slowly approach the family of European people, but as a functional member, and not as a supported person.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42984	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42985	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, that the speaker is required to speak on the agenda point. On what basis did Mr. Babic now speak? He reported to the Rules of Procedure, didn't mention a member who was injured and talked for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-11-0.u42986	Mr. Vesenovicu, Mr. Babic did not speak on behalf of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Babic had two minutes and 30 seconds of time as head of the parliamentary group. He left it all the way and used it in the end. Dear People's MPs, before I conclude this point, I would like to thank the MPs who stayed until five o'clock in the morning, to thank me in particular for the past five, six hours, because when some MPs left the hall, when some MPs realized that they couldn't reach the goal and throw away, and without arguments, we had a constructive, quality and democratic debate, and I thank you very much for allowing me, as chairman, to work without interventions that I would have to do under the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to thank the services of the National Assembly, which together with us MPs stayed until five o’clock in the morning and especially for having endured even some of our discussions that were not in the spirit of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Dear Members of the Parliament, given that the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Saturday, December 12th, 2015, starting at 10.00 p.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the eighth session of the second regular session of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I thank Minister Tasovac and his cabinet for participating in this morning's session.
