ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33636	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Branko Đurovic, Vesna Besarevic, Branko Bosnjak, Milena Ćorilić and Branko Ružić. They're the ones who reported a legitimate absence. We continue to work and move on to a search in particular of the draft law on special conditions for selling certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Minister Vujovic, Mr Mijailovic, I believe that he is a injured member of 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, and I ask you to warn the MPs here to pay attention to the presentations of other MPs, which they are now not doing. In the position of Rule 1 of our Rules of Procedure, gentlemen of the People's Assembly are well-respected, and we should stick to the rules of respected gentlemen, held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18:00 hours, with a break from one hour. Today, gentlemen are honored Wednesday, and that's fine, but our session of the National Assembly instead of starting at 10.00 hours as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly begins at 1200 hours, gentlemen. I consider the esteemed presidents of the National Assembly to be bound, for example, by you, to inform us of the MPs, which is why we do not adhere to the rules set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and especially to tell us that it is certainly not about the fact that the Prime Minister has scheduled his press conference in 10.00 hours today...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33638	Ambassador, you're looking for my answer. Don't answer it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33639	Yes, we must not adapt the presidents to our pace, the pace of the Prime Minister, but the Prime Minister must respect the institution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33640	So your intention was just to say and label someone who runs this country. So you don't need an answer at all. I'd like to thank you for two minutes, so you don't have to take two minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33641	I've got another second.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33642	No, not until two minutes, when you say by the book, then I read to two in the next members, etc. We all have to read every word and every word in the Rules of Procedure and rule by it. Do you even want an answer? Or do you already have an answer for yourself?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33643	Why at 12:00 instead of ten gentlemen?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33644	You know, MP one, who is your good friend, told me that my ability to see what will happen in the future, let's use it for some other purpose, so that I might ask you together to open a company where we'll deal with the prophecy of fate, the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33645	I was ready to start at 10.00 hours to work. Why didn't we start at 10.00?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33646	That's right, as a rule, we don't have to stick to it, we were working around 10:00 a.m. yesterday. It's an extraordinary session. So, the committees worked, the Serbian government had a session early this morning to give us an opinion on the amendments. It all makes sense that we would be further committed to who we are to. So those MPs who want to be consecrated, it's not an obligation. You want to vote, we'll vote? No, I don't. I thank you. Let me start the session. Dr Dusan Vujovic, Minister Ivan Tasovac, advisers in their cabinets and Minister Kori Udovici were invited to attend today's session, concerns all points of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law, as well as a report by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. As we've carried out a principled search, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The title of the amendments in the same text was submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to the title of the law by MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33647	Thank you, Madam President. The idea was to use the money obtained from the sale of the property somewhere useful. Since this is a lex specialis compared to the Public Property Act, it is necessary to specify in the very title which is intended for these funds, which are supplied by the sale of certain immovable property. In the government's opinion, the amendment is not accepted because the funds achieved by selling immovable property must be the general revenue of the budget for fiscal consolidation. I ask, given that these days, even today, and even since the first quarter of this year, we hear that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is being filled with incredible speed, that we are in a surplus, that we are well on track, and I think it is necessary that this money that is acquired by the sale of buildings, business space, apartments, go for some useful purpose, and I suggest that it go into projects to increase energy efficiency. I think the government can also come up with projects that would allow citizens to make their apartments and houses more energy-efficient and efficient. It wouldn't be the only benefit. There would also be benefits in terms of increasing the number of workforce that would do so, there would also be benefits for various economic operators involved. Of course, according to my idea, it would not be a grant, but a means that would return and practically create a fund from which Serbian citizens would succeed in making their apartments and houses more energy-efficient. I think this opinion is just saying that the money that's earned in this way will go into consumption and he won't know the way. There's something else I'd like to ask. I have the impression that he's in too much of a hurry with this law, that all of this is done for certain purposes. Not only by refusing this amendment, but also by other amendments, you have shown, in fact, the impression is that money will go who knows where, and that the property of the Republic of Serbia will, in some way, illegally acquire some privileged people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33648	The word has Minister Vujovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33649	Thank you. I'll answer only the first part of your proposal. Because the means that, if realised, by realising this law go as the general income of the state, absolutely does not mean that your second proposal, which is very, I think, usefully, is being financed. Therefore, we expect, we do not want to fear any source of income, certainly will not go into current consumption, and in which aspects of improving the public debt or investment projects that you are talking about, where energy efficiency is certainly one of the projects that deserves maximum attention, it does not exclude it at all. Therefore, we expect that these revenues will remain unscathed and that the government proposes a way to use these resources that will be comprehensive and will be directed towards achieving strategic objectives. I repeat, certainly not in current consumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33650	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branko Karavidic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33651	All right, thanks. If what you said is true, Mr. Minister, and if you think this proposal is good, I think you should have gotten the strength to focus these funds on one thing that all the citizens of this country will benefit from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33652	Members of the 1st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Vujovic, the honored guests of the Ministry and, of course, the esteemed presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, please immediately respect the five minutes I am entitled to in the overall debate on amendments. I would like to take advantage immediately of our amendment, the amendment of the People's MPs of the New Party to Article 1 of this bill. Of course, at the very beginning, it is necessary, as was the case during previous amendments at our sittings, gentlemen, to inform both MPs and Mr Vujovic of the number of amendments submitted, the number of amendments accepted, certain percentages of amendments accepted, etc. We, the People's MPs of the New Party, on these nine draft laws, which two days ago in the principle debate here in the Assembly, defended in the name of the Government Mr Vujovic, a total of 134 amendments. The amendment to Article 1 is one of those 134 amendments. Dear gentlemen, an amendment has been accepted. This means that in the total summation for this year and three months, I see that SNS MPs are also now adding these amendments, accepted and not accepted, we have submitted 1,431 amendments, respected gentlemen, and of that number a total of 85 amendments, which position us on the standard of a percentage of 6% of the amendments accepted. Of course, Minister Vujovic, gentlemen, it's a good signal, I think for the SNS MPs here, that we've stood up, that we're at the present stable 6%, but of course our idea is to go to 20%, both accepted amendments and support in the electoral body of our Republic, respected gentlemen, and by our actions. This progressive majority and progressive power are only helping us, gentlemen. That's one thing. The second thing, Minister Vujovic, and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is this Law on specific conditions of sale of certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia in article 1 – the terms of sale of certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia are arranged. Dear gentlemen, I think that every reasonable man is wondering - what are these conditions for selling certain immovable property, why are we doing this? I think as a reasonable man, I immediately read the government's argument, which is why the government wants to regulate the conditions of selling certain immovable property. I read, behold, gentlemen, please pay attention now, in order to achieve additional revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget, gentlemen. You know what it looks like to me, Minister Vujovic, guests from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament? It's like having a picture of a family that's found themselves in a difficult state, in a difficult economic state, doesn't know how to solve their economic situation, and then, in their home, respected gentlemen, in their house, they find a variety of things, they roll, there's jewelry, there's a view of how much it's worth to sell, so that we can survive. To me, Mr. Vujovic, I mean as one reasonable man, who follows a certain logic, this bill of law and this idea is like that. I don't think that's the right way, Mr. Vujovic. I think it is the right way to get the opportunity for additional funds to come into the Republic of Serbia's budget is, not to provide conditions for selling certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia, but, Mr Vujovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, by providing conditions for economic growth. The government needs to deal with it, to create conditions for economic growth, and then to support the government in such an approach, in such a way, and not to sell these, jewelry we found, etc. Plus, Minister Vujovicu, with economic growth, I believe that the government should take steps towards responsible public spending, and then, respected gentlemen, to agree on a few points, on point 1, which could concern further lifting of administrative barriers to business, gentlemen. A second point, about encouraging employment, but you know how, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament? Through the affirmation of private initiatives that are about to lead to that economic growth on the basis of which we will provide the right source of revenue to our budget, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and Minister Vujovic. According to this, Minister Vujovic, let us agree here to once create conditions for the free market in action, not just on words. Here we have one rhetoric concerning the free market, not only the SNS, but also the parties that are Social Democratic here, which has the opportunity to say something about the market – here we are for the free market, and in part, honored gentlemen... We want a free market at work. Minister Vujovic, responsible fiscal policy, a reduction in public spending, but a reduction in the country's jurisdiction. We should have a strong state, but around exactly a small number of competencies, so that the state shows through that force and terrible efficiency. Minister Vujovic, to agree here to help the people at risk, to agree that this freedom of the market, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, does not mean that we will leave behind the most vulnerable, but rather to lead a smart social policy, so that one who deserves the benefits of the bread, honored gentlemen, that only he can buy that bread, and not as it is now that everyone can buy that bread. About making a deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33654	Thank you. You've wasted your time today. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33655	Replica, Madam President. If I may, three times mentioning the SNS and the advanced majority. Well, a little digression on those percentages of accepted amendments and support in the electoral body. With the same kind of ferocity, the amendment promoter informed us a few days ago, comparing accepted amendments and overall submitted, that his party's support was 6.5%. Only 15 days ago, that support was 6.5%. At this point, as the amendment promoter informed us, that support is 6%. Well, watch out for someone who boasts of support that's only been ruined in 15 days and fell by half a percent, and he's dreaming about some tens and dozens and I don't know what. It's a little dyspression. Still, you don't always have to brag about something that can be compared to what happened 15 or 20 days ago. On the other hand, the line that burned my ears the most, which I'll agree with, is that our family, our Serbian family, that's where I think of our society, has been found in a difficult state, which is why it has to be sold for sale, because the family jewelry has already sold. It is true, but because of who and why and whose actions did our family and our society find themselves in such a situation? Who sold the family valuables? Who's been privatizing since 2000 here? Are some new values created? Did people keep their jobs? Has anything in our society and in our country been done by 2013?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33656	Thank you, replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33657	I would only ask that the amendment promoter be precise and say who is responsible why our family and our society have found themselves in such a position?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33658	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33659	Short. So this is the first member to read - this law regulates the conditions of selling certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia. By erasing this article, the law would be unthinked. This just explains the meaning of the law. Therefore, no proposal is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33660	Zoran Zivkovic? Two minutes, you know that, or do you want five? (Zoran Zivkovic, from place: Seven. Seven minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33661	Since this is a very important law and needs to be spent all the time in this world, to try to convince the minister to realize that this is not something to serve him, not to him, not to the government of Serbia, but I am more concerned about his honor, but to honor the government of Serbia. Right now, he said that our amendment would come up with this law, to Article 1, to dissipate the law. That's right. That's exactly the exact diagnosis. When something is pointless, then it needs to be thought out, and then it gives meaning. What's wrong with this law, Mr. Minister, if I'm not interrupting while you're on the phone? First, why is it selling state, national property? Who at this time has reached Serbia, except for the government that's been there for three years, which makes you make us sell something that's been made for decades? Do we have any big trouble concerning some major infection, some kind of elemental accident, or anything that could cause the need to sell what's been acquired for decades? Why is it selling? Where do these funds go? What's being sold? At what price is it sold? For what purposes is it sold, who can buy it? Do you have one answer to these questions? You're all bragging. Here we are, half an hour ago, and the Prime Minister is making a statement that we are so good that we are even more ashamed now than we were ashamed 15, 20 days ago. Then why are we selling what could have remained in state property and bringing income through the lease, through taxes, through anything? Because the situation isn't even close to being talked about, and they can stand behind the Prime Minister any government representatives and be wise to shut up for an hour and a half and blink sometimes, but it won't change the real picture of our economy. Why are apartments, housing, business facilities, garages, underground and underground facilities sold for some purpose? In order to raise money to increase "pays in the public sector and pensions". They've been kidnapped pensions since, like, a year ago, there's not a year left, and part of the salary that's been cut linearly completely pointless without any criteria. That's one thing. They may also be sold because I don't see anything sticking around with that "Biograda on the water"... . (SNS emissaries get that it's not a topic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33662	Ambassador... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33663	I ask you to ask my question – why are real estate sales and I ask the question – whether they are sold for this, if it is not clear to someone, you explain it later. Don't react to anyone on the right. So it's absolutely on the subject. Please give me back my time. So whether it's for "Belgrade on Water" where there's neither that sheik nor his uncle, nor anyone to invest anything in this facility that stands there, then we're going to have to pay for that false dream by the Prime Minister and all of you together or there's some hidden reason. What's the secret reason? Maybe to stamp another amount of Mercedes stickers and stick to Icarbus buses. What is the purpose of these funds? Why is it selling now? Why wasn't it sold when it was so good two years ago, even then they were power? And then there were genius solutions every day. Why didn't you implement this brilliant solution then? At what price is it sold? What amount, what number, how many squares, how many objects, with what schedule? There's no answer. So we're selling something, we don't know why, we don't know how much there is, we don't know what the starting price is. All we know is that only those privileged Serbian citizens who have otherwise used it in the last six months or a year or six years or 50 years can buy it. Your tycoons, small or large, waited, or the second half of last year to rent state property so that they could, since this is true for all those who have been leased since January this year to buy it at the price – okay, brother, we'll agree. You're talking about privatisation. With what right? Privatization in the first few years, you know exactly where the price went and what happened? What happened was we got gas at the pumps, electricity, medicine in the hospitals. In nominal terms, the salary has been increased several dozen times. Educational workers' salaries were below 10 euros, to remind you, and the state administration was three times less than it is now. So you don't know anything about it. This looks like one song that will obviously be when the constitution changes the SNS proposal that when the Constitution changes and the anthem of Serbia, the anthem will be the famous folk song – I will sell everything, just to play. I don't know about the tune, but you have this culture minister who can help you. Either we change the Constitution and that anthem or I get answers to questions – why do you sell Mr. Vujovic what you didn't create? To whom does this great money go, and why only the privileged, only a few, possibly tens of thousands, as many as I estimate such objects in Serbia, will be able to be buyers? Why can't it be someone who hasn't been a ten, 50-year-old privileged tenant of those premises? To those answers you must give me an answer now, or this mess will be on your face all your life. These politicians will leave, and you're not a politician, you're an expert in economics.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33664	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33665	The song is called "Let's dance Jano round." So much for not knowing anything, which is usually a beautiful and wonderful traditional song from Kosovo and Metohija. By the way, I do not understand the purpose of this amendment, nor the question – and what is being sold? You could answer that you never in your life list what we have from property at all, but those same apartments, which no one even knew existed, gave your party officials a 100-euro lease or that they were supposed to keep, and then buy them out for a large sum of money, and that the state has no use for it. That's how you've worked your whole life. It's finally good to pass a law like this, because that's where the law introduces order, because we're finally going to know what we have and what we own, and now there's not going to be a lot of party officials going into apartments and supposed to keep them safe, and then buying them out by the bagatella. That's what you've been doing. Speaking of tycoons, I'm pretty sure that's what you're talking about, because you've become a tycoon with the help of the state. You've received grants for your vineyards and should be ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33666	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33667	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, to say that for this House and in this country, who has implemented this so-called. Compradoral privatisation. I have to point out here that for me, the kind of newspaper is that so-called. Not the left, but the left-wing turns of previous speakers, who are now saying that the state should be an entrepreneur, that the state should exploit property in the best possible way, which is neither good nor proved to be sustainable in the previous 25 years. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we in parliament advocate, this is exactly the free market, that is to leave it to private owners, private initiative, private capital that in the best possible, most efficient, most productive way to exploit and dispose of the property. This is all in favour of the market economy, the market economy, the politics of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which wants to have a reduced, reduced, efficient and effective public sector and how it works. In this way, he wants to build a country in which an environment is favourable for domestic and foreign investors. Here we could hear such attitudes as to how the state should be an entrepreneur, which, of course, has not proved itself to be good anywhere. We are in favour of this system, of this direction, and we strongly support the Government of the Republic of Serbia in doing so. We also have classic examples that the strategic partnership with Etyhad has led to direct implications positive, that we will record more than five million passengers at our airport this year. I remind you, in 2013, we only had three million. I remind you of the project "Belgrade on Water", the largest project of 3.2 billion euros that will be realised in the next period and which, of course, will have a huge multiplier effect on both the construction, both on tourism and other industries that some here have led to the construction industry falling 60% in the last few years. As we all know, she is the bearer and key to even economic development. So, I would like to talk here and exchange arguments from the aspect of real arguments, real data and what is best for the Republic of Serbia, for our citizens and for the creation of an entrepreneurial society. These, I am free to say the rival views of certain MPs, previous speakers, do not lead anywhere and lead our society to remain official, not what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Parliament are seeking, to be an entrepreneurial society and a society in which we develop economy and in which it is a good business environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33668	Thank you. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33669	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 1 reads – This law regulates the conditions of selling certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment proposed that Article 1 be amended in such a way that it reads – this law regulates the conditions and procedure of selling immovable property in the property of the Republic of Serbia set out in this law. The difference is, I suggest that, in addition to the terms, the sale process is added. That was also foreseen by the first amendment, which I didn't report to defend because I had to go to the Legislative Committee, but I decided to stay here anyway to talk about the amendments. In view of the fact that this law is a lex specialise in relation to the Law on Public Property, we believe that it is necessary, in addition to the fact that it is understood to refer to certain immovableities, to the title as well as to Article 1 which speaks of the subject of the law, to specify what the law regulates, to indicate explicitly and the procedure of sale, because it is also specific. Of course, all these amendments have been rejected with one sentence that reads – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is more comprehensive. Obviously, it was not a more detailed consideration of the amendments and the reasons set out in the reasoning, but that, in principle, a copy-paisy was given an explanation for all the amendments. This shows again the government's attitude towards our efforts, because we really want to improve the quality of the law with our amendments in the interests of citizens. Not because we want to help this government achieve itself for good results, but for the citizens' sake, to make it better for the citizens. This only shows that the obvious claim which has been made and in the debate in principle, that the law has been passed because of certain immovableities and because of certain entities that are to purchase these immovableities.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33670	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33671	With your explanation, I agree and accept this amendment that Article 1 reads – terms and procedures of sale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33672	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33673	Thank you, Madam President. I'm in a dilemma right now, because I have the same amendment that you've already accepted, whether I need to convince you, too. So, do you accept my amendment as well? I don't understand it because it wasn't read in the same text, so is my amendment accepted or not? If you can just say it in the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33674	To shorten this dilemma, the ministers you accepted the amendment, Biljana Hasanovic Korać or... ? (Dusan Vujovic, from the post: Which was first announced in a row. I think they're the same. ) Is your amendment the same as the amendment of Biljana Hasanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33675	It's exactly the same. So we add the words "and the sales process".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33676	So, only the minister to say in the microphone that he accepted the amendment to Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33677	In the microphone, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33678	Thank you. Let's get this straight, so it's groundless. Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Vujovic, honored guests and guests from the ministry, respected presidents of the National Assembly, here's what it says in Article 2 of this bill, which we propose to delete, gentlemen. It is said – The subject of the sale, under the conditions prescribed by this law, is that citizens of the Republic of Serbia, apartments, residential buildings, business premises, business buildings and other building facilities that serve to carry out operations, garages and garages owned by the Republic of Serbia. Then I wonder, gentlemen, what is the reason for this sale? Minister Vujovic, in his explanation for the bill, tells us that we find the reason for the problems we have with the Republic of Serbia's budget, respected gentlemen, because the money from the sale must go to the budget. Dear gentlemen, when I listen to the Prime Minister, I read his statements, his analyses, his comments, and I listen at the press conference this morning in a time when we should be sitting here, honored gentlemen, not listening to a press conference for the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister says there is no problem with the budget. Minister Vujovic, is it possible for you, members of the government, and the Prime Minister to agree on whether we have problems with the budget or not with the budget, so that whenever anyone performs on behalf of the Government and the Assembly and at the press conference we have a unique, clear, precise position? The problem is with the budget, let's solve the problem. Or, there's no problem with the budget, so there's no need, Minister Vujovic, to adopt today and discuss the content of such a bill. Please tell us your court final, do we have any problems with the budget, Minister Vujovic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33680	Mr. Arsic. I'm sorry, I have to give the Minister my word, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33681	I don't know where you get your parallel quotes from. We don't have deficit problems, income and budget expenditure is such that our deficit is below 1% of the social product at the end of July, with the last day we have the data. This is about selling real estate that the state should not have in its property, which should be subject to privatisation, as were apartments in social and state property, and this part, with the exception of the part where the state has committed itself to offering a certain quota to diplomatic and consular representations, this part of the state should not have, this is not a strategic part of the property of the state, this is the result of some old relations and the need for the administration to function in a federally regulated SFRY. That's why we sell this property, like we sell everything else that's not in long-term lease status. As for the problem in the budget, we're talking about three aspects. One is current income and expenditure, the other is capital, and the other are structural elements of the budget. This part of income that cannot go into current consumption serves to solve structural aspects of the budget, where we have many unfinished projects, where we have a very high need to reduce the debt of the state. Therefore, when we talk about the current budget, we have no problems. When we talk about budget structure and budget management in the longer term, as we will talk about in the Public Debt Management Act, we want to optimise the level, structure and cost of public debt. These proceeds from the sale of assets will first release the state to manage the assets it does not need, secondly, to provide capital revenues that will not be coloured, as requested by the colleague, and targeted individual investment activity, but will be used to reduce debt, optimisation of debt and completion of projects that are priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33682	Time. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33683	I understand the colleague who is the applicant of this amendment and his concern for the budget. I can only tell him there's no need to worry about the budget. He was never in a better situation in the Republic of Serbia's budget than the modern history of the Republic of Serbia. He's never been in a better situation. Now, whether he wants to accept it or not, that's his problem, because our people say – it's free to whisper and wink. But the facts are facts, they're irrefutable. Why does this agreement with the IMF matter to us? So that there are no doubts like this, to show everyone who wants to invest in Serbia that our public finances are sustainable and that is why we have confirmation of an international organisation dealing with this. Not consulting houses that, according to the interests of individuals, often change their forecasts. Now, when it comes to this property, why does the Republic of Serbia have to deal with it once already? Here, no one will say, the minister of Gasic also once spoke about it, how many tenants of apartments were given by the Republic of Serbia who did not register and because they did not register received other apartments, so they issued one and lived in the others. It's time to end it. It's time for more of that to get in the way. That's why the Republic needs to resolve that question. One way to solve it is this one. Secondly, many of the owners of these facilities were not put in an equal position with those whose apartments were in social property in the 1990s. However, then the apartments due to hyperinflation were literally sold out for a table, and often fewer marks. At least now the state can get money from selling these apartments for their real value. That should also be considered. The third thing, also very important, is that these people are completely equal with those 90s predecessors, except for the price of the apartment. Now all those who worry that a lot of money will get the Republic of Serbia for this, which I doubt, but should give people a legal basis to do so, so let's make a choice on them. The Republic is there to regulate by law the state authorities that what we have adopted as a law is credible, which unfortunately was not in the period until 2012. So we had a big problem, I just said one. So they had multiple apartments that they had acquired on one basis, in which they only lived once, and in the other, and often and third, there were also such cases, and they issued apartments, while the state was in trouble to secure its public finances.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33684	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. My apologies, in the same text, you had the advantage. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33685	There you go, sometimes you're wrong. No one's perfect. This is the government's position on the amendments after July 14, sorry, this is the bill. It's a letter from the government sent by the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, says here. On the fifth page, in the reason for the adoption of the law, the Roman two pa dots, it is otherwise not spellingly correct, but it has nothing to do with this time, says – the reduction of wages in the public sector and pensions directly affects the purchasing power of a significant number of residents, and thus the amount of income the state collects on the basis of consumption taxes. So that's the reason for the law. In an economists' entertainment center when someone reads this, then realizes that the budget has a problem with current liquidity, regardless of what I believe to you, that the higher incomes than they were last year were in the same period, but last year in the same period was this same government. Don't make excuses for that government before, Dacic, which was bad, or before, Tadic, who was bad, too. I'm telling you about what the situation is today. You're saying this money won't go into liquid consumption. At the same time, you say the money in the budget wasn't colored. Then how do you guarantee he won't go into liquid consumption? Tell me the mechanism. I'll tell you in the next two minutes how it could have been done and it could have been as clear as day, without any doubt, and to achieve the goal that you allegedly have with this law. But now that I have ten more seconds, I don't have time to explain it to you. In the next report, you get complete information about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33686	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33687	Thank you. For the support and voice of the "for" amendment of counterparts Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, except that the amendment, by itself, makes sense and has a place for itself and represents an expression that both MPs want to prevent one damage that will obviously be done, it is a great reason for the quote we just heard. So, in the reason for the adoption of this law, the government tells us that due to the reduction of wages and pensions, purchasing power will fall. That's what the government quoted some of us as saying when the government passed a bill on wage cuts and pension cuts. With a lot of cynicism and mockery, we're told to sit down and study the economy because purchasing power and reducing wages and pensions have nothing to do with it. Then I ask the minister, that he or she withdraws the words he has shared with us when we are, now cited in the reasons for the law, where it says, a reduction in wages and pensions has led to a reduction in purchasing power, or to deny that this is the reason for this law, or to deny the explanation he shared with us when, in the name of the Government, he, along with other ministers, defended the reduction of wages and withdrawals, because both of them cannot. It can't even go beyond such a small deadline between two events, and as we have tried to reduce the damage with amendments and debate, saying that the withdrawal of pensions is not constitutional, that wage cuts will not produce good consequences for the budget, that they will only reduce purchasing power, that they will destroy that little healthy middle layer. It is your right and legitimate not to be trusted, but it is rude to return to our words in the current debate the reasons for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33688	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33689	Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to properly interpret the reasons for law-making, the government doesn't say it's shrinking, it's affecting, it's an important difference. Why? Because if someone lives in Serbia where they think the budget system is perfect, and budget revenues are perfect. No, not alive, to remind you, we still have a deficit today. So Serbia is a country where, due to its functioning in previous years, we have a budget deficit. It is like never smaller, but today it exists, although 1%, although it is a sustainable economy, from the point of view of macro-economy compared to all European regulations and directives, is a deficit. We're trying not to make that deficit five. 6.8% as it was in previous years. In order to keep that deficit, we need to find sources of income in the Republic of Serbia's budget that primarily do not stem from public spending taxes and incomes stemming from labour taxes. So to find that, that part of the assets found in Serbia's assets must be transferred to the budget and to the budget side of the income. It has nothing to do with the government, and its current work, but with an inherited condition that is disastrous. If you expect the budget that was 7%, 6% in the deficit, to go immediately into surplus, it is impossible, and the minister clearly says – we must at this point, as far as macroeconomic policy is concerned, to bring the state of Serbia into a situation so that it can settle its obligations, so that, after that, and you are right, going to macroeconomic parameters, economic growth, employment growth and inflation rates that each moment show positive effects arising from this particular deficit, which is at 1%.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33690	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33691	I am pleased that this dialogue is ongoing, as we now have the opportunity to quote in the stenograms that will record this session, I quote very nearly a fellow MP, as I quoted the minister as saying, therefore - the withdrawal of pensions and the reduction of wages affects purchasing power. It can affect the increase in purchasing power, and it can affect the reduction of purchasing power, and it can affect that there is no difference in purchasing power when pensions are taken and wages cut, and pensions are not taken away and wages cut. It won't be a long time, and I will, without any pleasure, quote my colleagues, as without any satisfaction now I quote to the minister the words we had in the debate when pensions were taken and wages cut, which are now given to us in the reasons for the law being passed. If there is an economic theory, evidence, that the withdrawal of pensions and the reduction of wages affects purchasing power so that it grows, I would ask you to do so as soon as possible, to show those where there is only a reduction in purchasing power, and to warn the government that it does not give us an explanation that does not stand, because if the impact of reduced salaries and kidnapped pensions is such that purchasing power has grown, then we have no problem with the budget, then we have no reason to pass this law. Then the amendment should be accepted and submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, who was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, is very obvious, if you follow what is written in the amendments, in the explanations and if we listen to ourselves while we speak to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33692	National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 2nd amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33693	Thank you, Madam President. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which I propose to amend Section 1 so that the subject matter is sold under the conditions laid down by this law are public property immovableities which directly serve not the exercise of the authority of state authorities and organisations, but for the achievement of income through leases, i.e. on use, etc. Commercial immovableities, business space, apartments, garages, garages and others, and whose owner, within the meaning of the Public Property Act, is the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" 72/11, 88/13, 105/14, in the text of the law, the Republic of Serbia, in the following text, is the subject of sale, if this law is not otherwise specified. I suggested reshaping this position of Article 1, which regulates the subject of sale, believing that this was a more clearly defined subject matter than was given in the draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33694	On the 2nd amendment in the same text, MPs Branko Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33695	Thank you, Madam President. So we predicted the amendment not to say that the sale is "under conditions", but also "in the process". Since you accepted the amendment to Article 1 it is logical to accept the amendment to Article 2 because the logical trace of the change in the law that we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33696	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33697	I would once again ask Mr. Minister to read our amendment carefully, if you have adopted the amendment Biljana Hasanovic Korac, which says that this law regulates the conditions and procedure of selling immobilities in the property of the Republic of Serbia, it is logical to adopt Mr. Senic's amendment and my amendment, meaning, in the same text, where in Article 2 after the words "under conditions" are added and the words "and procedure". It's actually a logical clue to what you've accepted in the case of Mrs. Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33698	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33699	So, thanks for the warning, I totally agree that the same amendment should be applied consistently wherever it appears, and you've predicted it with the amendments. I agree with the addition of "in the process" to an adequate place in Article 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33700	You have to say I accept it or I don't accept it. That's the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33701	I accept the amendment to add "in the process" after "under conditions".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33702	All right, amendment accepted. The People's MP, Dr Blagoja Bradic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33703	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I have suggested that Article 2(2) changes and that the sales are not the subject of the sale of fixed assets under Article 1 of this article, where users, i.e. users, or holders of rights of use, bodies and organisations of the Autonomous Province, units of local self-government, public enterprises, companies whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province and units of local self-government, as well as their dependent companies, based on contracts concluded under the act of the competent authority, which are not transferred to the property of that public undertaking, or society. The reason was to specify the proposed amendment by applying the definitions of the Public Property Act with regard to users, i.e. the holder of the right to use real estate rights. Using the same terminology as in the Public Property Act. You replied that the amendment was not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution was more celery. I think my proposal is more comprehensive than your solution, because it's more complete in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33704	On the 3rd amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33705	Here, I promised to tell you how this can be done without being suspicious, to make sense, to be complete and to make it clear to everyone what's going on. I agree, it is better in a market-transparent, clear and legal way to sell the immovableities that are the subject of this law. It's just that before that, we need to know how many there are, what their value is and how public they sell, which means they can buy anyone, and the tenants that are now on the lease should have the privilege of offering the same conditions as someone else, they're buyers. That's clear and everybody knows it. What about the money? That money must not go into the budget, not colored, but form funds. If that money is directed towards the repayment of debts, a government debt-refunding fund is formed and the proceeds from the sale of these assets go to that fund. Or, if it goes for the infrastructure of that money, it forms a fund to build infrastructure, so we can track every citizen in this country where that money goes. Or, if it goes for the development of education, for the development of health care, it has to be monitored. In the same way, money needs to be spent and in the same way should be sold by both EPS and Telekom and other public firms. It's the only way we're going to have a clear situation in the country about why something's being sold, where that money's going, and there's no way anyone can take a cent of white. The full public, involvement and authorities and opposition, and the third sector, and the media, all of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33706	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33707	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear Minister Vujovic, honored guests from the Ministry and respected presidents of the National Assembly, here, Minister, you have a concrete proposal that this is the same thing, and in view of our amendment to Article 3, which defines what may be the subject of sales and what cannot be the subject of sales, so that, Mr Vujovic, in one good, transparent and just way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, can be done. And now, of course, we have no reaction, nor the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, we have no reaction either, Minister Vujovic. And how so, dear gentlemen? So we here have an objection about how, why, who is being sold these immovableities in this way? Mr. Zivkovic now explained how it could have been better done on an alternative proposal, which is fairer, we have no kind of reaction, except that we have some MPs on behalf of some left-wing ideas who advocate here some ideas of unclassical liberalism as if we are attending a kind of left-wing conflict, gentlemen. Let's imagine a situation where a government on this bill defends the Social Democrats, who in their own name have that name, and openly here advocate the ideas of unclassified liberalism. So what's the confusion, gentlemen? But it is now less important than Minister Vujovic's opinion on this proposal, announced by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Minister Vujovic, Mr. Mijailovic, whisper to Minister Vujovic whether this proposal, which Mr. Zivkovic has made better than what the proposal he sent to the Parliament on behalf of the government has previously been signed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. The Serbian Progressive Party's MPs also say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33708	Time. Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33709	Thank you very much. Three brief comments. Please do not join us at the same level of discussion and reasoning and discussion about a member of the law. We are now discussing Article 2. I owe Mr. Obradovic an explanation. I think his addition is correct, but I think the text that reads - and whose owner, in terms of the Law on Public Property, is the Republic of Serbia, everything else is not. So what you're proposing is true, but it's not really necessary, because by owning the Republic of Serbia, it actually excludes all the others that you've listed. So if you don't mind, we didn't want to spread and complicate the text. (Blagoje Bradic, from the place: I think it is more acceptable what we have suggested. ) Here, tell me, these are two sets that complement each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33710	Please don't communicate like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33711	So if the Republic of Serbia, all of this is not the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, you are absolutely right, but it can be said – whose owner is the Republic of Serbia and thus we have defined the rest of this set to which this law applies. Secondly, I didn't expect to be behind Article 2 at all. - deleted, Mr Pavicevic, and Article 2. - Delete yourself, Mr. Zivkovic, hiding such a wealth of arguments. It's hard for me to answer your arguments, since they're not proposed here. If they were proposed in the form of a concrete amendment, then I could answer in more detail. I repeat - we do not want to fear income. These are the proceeds from the sale of a physical asset that we believe is not in the fullest sense to be managed by the state. In that sense, it would be good if we agreed to add this qualification, but I think it is added to the interpretation of the law, which is what will be considered under this law at all, to consider under this law, to satisfy the criteria, not to serve the exercise of the powers of the state authorities. Any concrete proposal that goes to the Government on privatisation, sale and alienation of immovableity starts with a sentence that says – because some concrete immovableity or movable property, car and other, is no longer in function, is not necessary, is sold or alienated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33712	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I did not get an answer, we can talk all day.) There's no replica, you just got the answer. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the site: I did not get an answer. ) He has the right to his position and the government's position to defend. Sure, you'll talk. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33713	Thank you. And just before, he was a member of the Three Ministers, in the debate. Not Article 2. So the amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic were on Article 3, as well as our amendment. An important amendment and it is important to explain to those who will apply these laws and what is meant to be the rule of law in Serbia, which means the provisions in Article 3 of which you will not give up, or you will not accept the amendment that we have submitted. We ask that in this member who defines what is the subject of the sale, it does not say that the bill is written – the subject of the sale can be the property that is in the library or off-book owned by the Republic of Serbia. And in the principle debate, the minister did not explain what an off-book property was. We want to delete off-book property and thus delete the final position of Article 3, which says, and will remain in the law if there is no adoption of the amendment: "In the event that the subject is sold immovableity which is not registered, the obligation of the buy-in contract is a clause which frees the Republic of Serbia as a seller of any liability in the event that the buyer is unable to register as the owner of that immovableity". Who's gonna sign a contract like this and who's gonna agree to this, I don't know and that's why I'm asking? That last position stems from what you stated as off-book property, which should not stand in the law, as should not stand this last position in Article 3. The point we're still asking him to delete concerns property that has been permanently seized under the law of confiscation of property arising from the crime. What's the explanation? That this property is forbidden for sale. So in the same article you're introducing off-book property, introducing a situation that the Republic of Serbia is selling something that has no proof that it's hers. You're saying the contract must contain a clause to buy, can't register, can't prove it's his, but that the Republic of Serbia is not guilty of anything, but you forbid the sale of assets that were permanently taken away under the law of confiscation of property derived from the crime. There is such property in Serbia. In addition to the problem that such a member of the law stands in any law, the problem is also the idea of why you're conjecturing Article 3. Why off-book property? Why the ban on property that is permanently owned by the Republic of Serbia? You have evidence of that. Why is it that the order that Serbia can sell assets that are not hers and that the buyer has nothing to complain about? Who blames him for buying something Serbia can't prove is his? I ask you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33714	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33715	First on the last paragraph in the draft text of the law that if the subject is selling immovableity which is not registered, it is a standard formulation. Off-book property can be sold in Serbia and such a formulation is put here, according to the legislation. We can talk to them again for an opinion. They insisted on this text. As far as point six is concerned, the ban on selling property that was permanently taken away, it stems from these other laws that we just took over here. Therefore, both things are required of our legislation. If you're right, I don't know that. So, I don't know that part. They only asked that the property seized in the criminal proceedings be not sold because it could be audited. I don't know why. There are lawyers here who can explain it better. So, completely outside of this law, this restriction is put, and the sale of off-book property in Serbia is allowed, with the state here being protected and said – if anyone wants to buy it at all. We don't make anyone take anything at all. If someone wants to buy out-of-book property, they're doing it at their own risk, nothing else. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: It is something that is wrong. That's allowed with us. The sale of off-book property is permitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33716	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33717	Thank you. I want to support my colleague's amendment for the simple reason that the state needs to know whether something can be legalized or not. Imagine you're buying from the state a real estate that you don't know if you can book as your own. It may be that the property is unregistered, but it has the possibility of legalization, and this means I take over, if I buy such an immovable property, that I'm at risk of not being able to legalize, and I gave the money for nothing. That's inappropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33718	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33719	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. So, permanently seized property. It is not the first time we have a problem because of the lack of dialogue and the lack of accuracy and will to interpret it. Permanently seized property has no audits. Done. Over. My Serbia says that we are not going to sell it permanently. You're removing credibility for the whole idea. What are you keeping this property for? Why can't you just sell it? I know what off-book property is, but it shouldn't stand in this law. Based on the court's judgments, some owner shouldn't be in this law. It's also the credibility of the state. At least there's no one here who sells real estate. That's what legislation should know, but it's legitimate, so for a few months when we see that this doesn't work, then we have amendments and additions to the law. Our proposal is just to save time nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33720	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33721	The esteemed chairman, respected representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues, Article 3 paragraph 1 is amended and reads - sales may be a property owned by the Republic of Serbia. Something similar to what the colleague used to say, for reasons of legal certainty and subsequent consequences such as the above-mentioned inability to book the customer, it is mandatory to carry out the registration procedure, which in addition to the legal certainty of the job has an impact on the achievement of the price itself, which is again in the interest of the state as a safe host. This also has a repercussion of the fact that there is no single real estate cataster in Serbia, which would make it much easier for all of them to define by law specific conditions for selling immovable property in their own country. Also, in Article 3(2), we believe that it should be completely deleted. The state's attempt to avoid liability in the event of sales of unlisted immovableities is being made in that position. Such an example, the future buyer is placed in an uninvited and discriminatory position so that he cannot register the purchased property. So what's the incentive for future potential buyers anyway? It is also implied that a certain matter in question is immobility which, if it is not shown in respect, above all, of good intentions, can be subject to a potential lawsuit for hidden intentions, regardless of the clause of discharge of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33722	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33723	I wanted to say that for the same reasons we mentioned earlier, we can't accept this because it would be an additional restriction just as we think it should remain position 6 that says that the subject of this law shouldn't be property. It is on the suggestion of justice and legislation, the Ministry of Justice and legislation, and we have put that into law. I wouldn't touch it on my own and change it. They just say it shouldn't be an object. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33724	Thank you. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Aleksandar Senic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33725	Thank you, Madam President. If you could just be a little louder, because I saw that you gave me your word for turning on the indicator, not because you're...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33726	Article 3 I thought you were following.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33727	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment that provides for the erasure of Article 3 in Article 3 which says – in case the subject of sale is a property which is not included in the mandatory purchase contract element, the clauses which the Republic of Serbia, as a seller, releases any liability in the event of the inability to register as the owner of that immovableity. So we think it is inadmissible that the state that needs to ensure legal certainty is freed from responsibility in case the customer cannot register, and that is why we are asking for the erasure of that position, because if the buyer cannot register, as the owner, his property transferred to him by the purchase agreement of the Republic of Serbia is missing and cannot elaborate the Republic of Serbia. We believe that Serbia, as a guarantee of legal certainty, simply cannot be freed of responsibility in case the buyer cannot register the purchased immovableity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33728	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinovic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33729	It'll be seven minutes, President. Dear Presidents, respected Minister Vujovic, ministers in the world's most inefficient government, this law is proof that this government is the most inefficient, one of the most inefficient governments in the world, and that you have contributed enough to that. This amendment essentially paints the essence, and this law shows the essence of this government. So, the law and this member, on the one hand, show that the government wants to sell what is left of the family treasure, as my esteemed colleague Pavicevic from the New Party said, jewelry and what is left to satisfy party interests, I would add, ahead of the next local, rural elections. However, I ask you, Mr Vujovic, what will those citizens who have nothing to sell and whose executioners knock on the door?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33730	Ambassador, I appreciate your discussion, but explain why the amendment is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33731	Yeah, yeah. This amendment suggests that my colleagues before me talked about that the state of Serbia should provide legal certainty, because the state cannot sell its family goods, such as yesterday a citizen in Nis, whom I met, said he had sold his ducat to survive this month, a ducat of grandfathers inherited. The state, Mr Vujovic, cannot sell its property without guaranteeing that the property will be registered. The state must ensure that every property in Serbia is registered if it is legally built. The state of Serbia thus creates legal certainty, Mr Vujovic, and in the law there is, I suppose, although you are economists, to know the bonds legislation, there is a provision in the Law on Bond Relations, the lawyer is called protection against the equation. Therefore, the legal protection of the seller, the purchaser of real estate from legal disadvantages and immovableity. So the seller can't sell the real estate without being responsible for her legal shortcomings. From Roman law, that institute is still a figure of speech. You said: We sell real estate, and let the buyer manage. That's true. These are buyers who are already set, Mr Vujovicu, we know that, people who have rented almost real estate, who are in good relations with the current government, they will now become owners. However, even in that case, you must not allow this, Mr Vujovic. And what confirms is that you're selling the family treasure, and that this government and the prime minister at the head of that government, is still telling the truth. Here, I'll prove it to you now. So, in the explanation signed by Mr. Alexander Vukic, the truth is, this law has a lot of grammatical mistakes, I don't think Mr. Vukic is illiterate, but that he's lost it, or those who wrote the law, to get lost. But this is very clear, even with some grammatical errors -- the reduction of wages in the public sector and pensions, directly affects the purchasing power of a significant number of residents, and thus the amount of income the state collects on the basis of consumption taxes. In order to achieve additional revenues from the RS budget, Serbia is selling these properties. And the Turnover Movement is against selling the family treasure, Mr. Vujovic. You sell the family treasure, you put the money in a bottomless bag, which you don't adequately manage, neither you nor the government ministers. You're putting on money that you'll get by selling the family treasure for pre-election purposes in a very irresponsible way, Mr. Vujovic. A turning point, the Turnover Movement will vote against this law. The turnover movement does not support the sale of the family treasure, Mr Vujovic, as neither does the citizens of Serbia. Tell me a Serbian citizen who supports selling what you got in an earlier period, which was bought during an earlier period. Didn't you promise Mr. Vujovic and you would raise the economy? Didn't you promise new jobs?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33732	Ambassador, please, about the amendment. We're having a general discussion. Now we have a debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33733	I suppose you don't quite like this discussion, but it is quite in progress with the amendment. Here, Mr. Vujovic says he likes it. So, Mr. Vujovicu, I assume you will accept this amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33734	Everyone has an opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33735	Yeah. ... that you will accept this amendment. I assume that these days you will resign as minister in the most inefficient government in the world, and that you will thus make a significant contribution to make the citizens realize that the ministers in the government are aware that you are leading us to ruin. I hope so, Mr. Minister, because I appreciate your knowledge in the area of finance, that you will be the first among them. And for that, as a sign of goodwill, I assume you will accept this amendment and ensure such legal certainty when it comes to the application of this disastrous law. I hope you will accept the other amendments to the Turnover Movement, Mr Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33736	You mean your amendments? Yours as an MP? Do we have to be precise? You're an independent messenger, and you're putting up with it. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: I am not independent. I didn't. You're not on your own? Okay. Whatever. The minister has an advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33737	So, just a little bit. Despite my best wishes to listen and respect everything you've said, I need to stop at the first technical inability. So in the first paragraph of Article 3 it writes – the subject of the sale can be the immovable property that is owned by the Republic of Serbia in book or off-book. If you are opposed to selling off-book property, then the amendment could have been – to delete the second part of the sentence and delete the last paragraph of this article. We could consider that. To erase an entire member, it denies the essence of the law that, please, I'm talking about what it says here. It's deleted if... Alexander Senic throws out of place. )......................................................................................................... Let me interpret. You had the right to submit the amendment. Delete is meant to delete everything, therefore, the subject of the sale cannot be if this member is deleted neither registered nor off-booked property. Please, it says here, Section 3 is deleted. What does it mean, used for the needs of diplomatic consular offices? What's attitude 3? That's bet 3. It cannot be deleted if position 1 remains. I repeat, if attitude 1 remains, then one cannot erase the last position because it is in conflict with the one with the character outside of the book ownership. If the state allows the sale of off-book property, then it must be fenced, according to the law that allows it, the state cannot guarantee that someone will register. It's an estimate of the buyer, whether the conditions have been met for him to register afterwards. Therefore, the state can either throw out the sale of off-book property and then the last position can be cast out, or if it does, it must be protected by this attitude. That's what they told us from the legislation. Please. Therefore, I consider everything else your political discussion that I would not now answer to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33738	Zoran Babic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33739	No, by the replica, Madam President, to the mention of the Prime Minister and the President of the SNS, Mr. Vukic. I appreciate someone changing their mind. I don't know if it's turned or turned, there's a lot of difference. But for someone who is now against selling the family treasure at the very least, he has to make an apology to the citizens of RS for the time he spent in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, heartily pushing for the government that sold out the family treasure of the RS. For four years, we've been MPs here together. He felt four years for every sale of state or social property. Everything the government of Mirko Cvetkovic thought was selling out, sharing and yes, it supported everything. Someone who is now against selling the family treasure, and until then was for the sale, at least I can expect her to make an apology and say when he was wrong – then or now. It can't be when you're in opposition or when you're in power, so it's different things and different attitudes. On the other hand, the RS Property and Assets Directorate, which will now be able to sell, tenants, 614 contracts and annexes of the contract, has been made by the period until 2012. So, 614 unlike the last three years when 78 was made and what people close to the current government are you talking about? Are you talking about these 614 people with whom you made contracts and contract annexes?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33740	Time. It's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33741	So who are they close to?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33742	Time. Alexander Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33743	I thank the president. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the projection is called a term that describes what we just heard from the promoter of this amendment. The projection is one of the most famous defense mechanisms. It consists of a person's tendency to make his own desires, impulses or subconscious contents that are not acceptable to his own ego project on other persons. That explains the link between selling family jewelry, as he figuratively said, with the aim of local elections or something. I'm just talking about the things that the esteemed previous speaker was talking about. When it comes to the amendment, of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected. Of course, I'm inadmissible at eradicating the position three in Article 3 and here's why. In the draft law, paragraph 3 clearly defines that when it comes to unrecorded immovableities, it is very transparent to know that one who decides to buy a property that is not registered is responsible for this, if the property or immovableity cannot be registered. Thus, the Republic of Serbia is thus freed from responsibility in this regard, and with this, the clause that regulates it is also foreseen. The second question is, why are we in a situation where there are real estates that aren't registered? So we can also discuss who is responsible for this situation and for the chaos that has arisen and that we do not have an adequate list and that we have real estates that are not recorded. It's a completely different question, and we can discuss it, but I'm afraid we're going to come up with that kind of thing, not the parties that are in power now, but the parties that you've been in, and they've had years and years to solve this mess, as they say, for even a decade, but they had better things to do then. They weren't interested in it then, and it wasn't a priority at the time. So, all those parties whose feather was the proposer of this amendment until he changed those parties until he changed three parties in six months. For these reasons, I suggest that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33744	Thank you. Are you looking for a replica? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. I'm begging you briefly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33745	Thank you, Your Honor. So, I'd like to focus on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33746	You can't talk about the amendment, you said you were spending seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33747	Yes, yes, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33748	Who exactly?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33749	Minister Vujovic and colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33750	You can't tell Minister Vujovic, because he made his point.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33751	To my colleagues, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33752	Who exactly?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33753	Mr. Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33754	It means Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33755	So, counterpart Aleksandar Markovic said he didn't want to accept the amendment I submitted, and this amendment is going towards increasing the legal certainty that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33756	Ambassador, you don't distinguish the line and you still want to talk about the amendment. Concentrate, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33757	No, I'm replicating to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33758	He was talking about the amendment, about why he didn't think your amendment could be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33759	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33760	You want to replicate to him by talking about the amendment? It can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33761	No, Mr. Markovic said that this amendment cannot or should not be accepted, and I claim that it should be accepted and that it would...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33762	Okay, so you won't listen to me. I thought you were going to talk about the feather, because that's the only reason it would be possible for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33763	Okay, here we go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33764	No, I'm not going to let any replicas go unnecessarily right now so you can buy time to talk about the amendment. You've wasted your time irrationally. I give the word to the Messenger of the people, Alexander Senic, and to Neji Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33765	Thank you. So, I'll use the time of the head of the parliamentary group. Mr. Minister, I want us to go back to the amendment that we predicted would delete Section 3. There is one provision in our Rules of Procedure on Work that says, provided you accept our amendment, so – in the course of the vote in the particulars of the amendment in writing, the legislator and the committee responsible, or the Government, can also submit, only if the need for an amendment has arisen as a result of the previous acceptance of another amendment. Therefore, the point is that you can now accept an amendment which deletes Article 3 and then, as a legislator, give an amendment to delete the word "or off-book" in paragraph 1. So, if you really think it's good to accept our amendment, there's an opportunity to correct Article 3 1 in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33766	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33767	I thank you, President. As far as the amendment is concerned, Your Honor, it's a matter of the interests of the contractor, how it will be protected in the best possible way. In a particular case, only here so-called. the risk of purchase is passed on to the buyer and that risk transfer to the customer implies a kind of transparency in the contractual relationship, where the seller clearly states that in no case will be liable for that type of risk, which means that in the legal sense of the word, there is a possibility and such bargaining. I'm talking about the possibility of such a deal. In my practice in bonding relations, I have faced such situations many times, and it is not unusual in general in the bonding law and application of the bonding right to specific situations. Here, in a technical sense, the words are probably just going to be left out of the contract. Intabulands clause, based on which the seller guarantees the buyer that they will be registered in the immobility cadasar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33768	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Nejko Jovanovic, Mr. Bradic, dear Minister Vujovic, of course, honored guests from the Ministry, honored guests, respected National Assembly presidents, Mr. Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of this Bill, which reads in Article 4. The bill we believe should be deleted – The funds achieved by selling the items of sales are the revenues of the Republic of Serbia. Here I request the special attention of Mr Kovacevic of the SNS, who called for this precisely. I think that here for this article he has confirmation of our position, for our good approach, because in the reasons for law-making, Mr Kovacevic, here's what it says - the reduction of wages in the public sector and pensions directly affects the purchasing power of a significant number of residents, and thus the amount of income the state collects on the basis of consumption tax. It is then added -- this law proposes to sell state-owned immovable property in order to generate additional revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then when we face Mr. Kovacevic with this, Mr. Kovacevic says - they are guilty before. So how long are we gonna keep looking for the culprit and the ones responsible in the past? So I would be able to go to the 1990s, and say, "It is these who are the same." Let's stop it. The responsibility is clear to position itself. I have one thing to add here. When I was talking here about certain ideological turns on the left in our National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, just so there is no ambiguity, I didn't mean the Social Democratic Party, because I spoke to the Social Democrats, I meant the President of the Economic Cocus, Mr Marinkovic, who advocates the ideas of unclassified liberalism beyond the rule of law, which is impossible, Mr Marinkovic, and imagine, called the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. Well, what is it, gentlemen, but an ideological detour?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33770	Thank you. (Vladimir Marinkovic, from town: Replica. You have no basis for replica, only by amendment, because just mentioning the name is nothing. I could replicate all the time. (Vladimir Marinkovic, from the place: The mention of the party. Let's see who else is the bearer. The word has been made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, the applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33771	Of course, this is one member who represents the essence of this law - the funds achieved by selling the items of sales are the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budgets. That's the problem. Once again, I didn't get an answer to the question why are real estate sales, what is volume, what is sold, how many squares, where is it, at what price, for which purposes, and who can buy it? It's not supposed to be sold and the money goes into the budget uncolored, and it's the only one that can be in the budget, unless it's meant to be rags from that money that are due to the daily liquidity of the budget. You say it's not like that, although the explanation says it is. I call you again, no matter how angry you are now that I haven't told you this good solution before for these funds where this money would be colored and where people in Serbia would know that when something is being sold on Vračar, we have, say, thousands of squares of state space, that it would reduce Serbia's debt by so much, or that would make a hospital here and there, or that would make a toilet in schools, because there are still 800 schools in Serbia with Polish toilets, or there will be a funding of science development, or there will be some fifth thing that is important, and not this is how you convince me that this money will go right where you tell me, and we have a Prime Minister who throws promises every day. You can't figure out what he promised yesterday and what he's gonna do tomorrow. We have a government on a nerve base, and I'm supposed to trust you on your honor. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33772	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33773	To be clear, budget revenues are recorded and managed by law. This Assembly approves of budget expenditures and can only be spent on these funds. Therefore, any coloring of money in advance limits our right to propose your right to approve budget spending. With what we're doing, we're not stopping any projects. We have proposals for agriculture, for energy savings, for education, for things, and we don't rule anything out. Since this part has no other limitations, it will be an integral part of the income and you will approve of what we are going to spend on, to make it crystal clear. Let's leave the political promises, I'm telling you now the real flow of money. So if we sell as much as I expect to be able to sell and achieve 30, 40 million euros, equivalents in dinars, incomes, it'll be additional funds that we'll be able to do all these things that you're talking about legitimately to finance, but within the budget, it'll be a rebalance, which I hope won't be this year or the budget for next year. So to be crystal clear, any coloring of money can only be done when we're sure in advance that's exactly what we want, because if more income is achieved, then some of those parts will have a surplus, and others will have a deficit. Why would we do that? No one deprives you of the right to determine in advance and to control backwards how these funds have been spent. I'm against money coloring, but I'm responsible for planning budget expenditures, verifying what's been spent and assessing the effects. That's why we're going from next year to more serious programming, where you're going to be controlling it with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33774	Thank you. The word is Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33775	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to be clear that the political option that I belong to is that this country is finally spending as much as it is earned. The spending masters have neither the moral right nor any right that encourages them to teach in parliament about how to manage public finances and what ideologies we need to manage, to help the Republic of Serbia be a developed state and to implement the difficult economic reforms that our Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, has initiated. As for the option I belong to, we advocate a social market economy, a market economy in which when money is earned, in which, when an enterprise is brought into service, when a private initiative comes into existence in full capacity, redistribution can be made. At that time, in a quality ideologically oriented way, we will advocate that those who are marginalized, that the endangered social groups get what they belong to, in accordance with the civilizational achievements of the 21st century, related to labour rights, human rights, all rights arising from the European Social Charter, the International Labour Organization, in particular, stressing this Convention 98 and 87. Until then, the dialogue with the economy, until then, the development and promotion of entrepreneurship and economy, the creation of additional values, and afterwards the debate on ideology and redistribution. Only this way can we come to Serbia finally creating the foundations to be an economically developed country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33776	The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33777	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm reporting for an amendment to article four, which was submitted by my colleagues. A member who regulates that the funds were achieved from the sale of the case, the sale of revenue from the Republic of Serbia's budget. These are additional revenues from the Republic of Serbia's budget, without increasing the tax burden on citizens and the economy, all in order to establish macroeconomic stability, implementing fiscal consolidation measures. This is the general income of the state. Dear Minister Vujovic has already stressed that revenues will not go into current consumption. The government will make proposals on where the proceeds will be invested. Dear Presidents, since I come from the municipality of Novi Belgrade, and in the explanation of my colleagues, I will read only part of the arguments tabled by the amendment, says – by selling real estate and spending money from that sale on daily consumption and demagogue projects, the Republic of Serbia remains permanently without its property and without new investment in infrastructure. I come from New Belgrade and want to hear citizens who already know that they are building and investing in infrastructure, the City of Belgrade has provided only a million and a half euros for the reconstruction of the part of Vinogradska Street, which has been in a catastrophic state for years, where citizens live without basic living conditions. All these previous years, no one invested, so now colleagues to hear that it is still being built and running and that there will be complete infrastructure, plumbing, sewerage, rain draining and just editing the street. I will not vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33778	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. He didn't mention you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: He said – to our amendment, colleagues. All right, it's got to be pervasive. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33779	Certainly, the amendment to Article 4 is related to the reasons for the law being passed, but today we cannot read these reasons until the end, or we don't understand them together, which we don't have the same opinion of them, that's fine, but we can't read them until the end. Here, I'll keep it going. With the sale of real estate in state property, in order to generate additional revenues to the Republic of Serbia's budget, which has been read, but is not still going, where it is said that this is how the tax discharge of citizens and businesses occurs. Simply, by selling assets owned by the Republic of Serbia, budget revenues stemming from income on the basis of earnings and revenues generated on the basis of sales revenues can be lower. To return to the number of tax revenues that come true and to their height. They are smaller and consumption is lower by one segment of the population on public sector salaries, but this does not necessarily mean that tax revenues from consumption are reduced because as you have incomes going to the expenditure side, you do not have to increase revenues on the revenue side of the budget. Budget is not a category that comes from the air. As you have fewer incomes, therefore, in the population sector there remains more resources that can go into consumption, and thus, tax revenues can also be higher.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33780	Thank you. According to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33781	Thank you, Madam President. So, without seeking to challenge the ministers' claims that they will not go into current consumption, I am still taking stenograms from Monday's session where the minister said the income would go towards meeting other strong obligations. It continues to give me the right to ask for my amendment to be adopted, where the funds generated from the sale of assets will be coloured and where it will be used for credit support to agricultural landowners, in accordance with the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouraging Act. So we are all witnessing that agriculture is our greatest developmental opportunity, that investments in agriculture are the fastest to be returned, etc., but when it is necessary to actually and through the budget to achieve our farmers are left to heaven and we have a situation that here, now the drought is making huge damage, and it would certainly be possible to invest in the irrigation systems to reduce the impact of these droughts. So I continue to insist that when the government already wants to sell the property of the Republic of Serbia to go into a fund from which credit support will be provided to agricultural holdings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33782	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33783	I respect the right of Madam President that any MP, as the owner of the mandate, may also submit amendments to the draft laws, may also vote or not to vote on any legislative proposal. But with careful reading of Mr Senic's amendment and colleague Karavidic's proposal, we see that it is an identical amendment, but they are different purposes of money. Yes, in the amendment of Mr Senic, that money would be directed to support the agricultural holdings, and in the amendment, Mrs Karavidic, of the same parliamentary group, and when I mention by name, I mean nothing wrong, nor persuasive, nor to challenge the replica, but as the right and obligation of the MPs to do their job and in doing so I support them, and in the amendment, Mrs Karavidic, that - for increasing energy efficiency and now I share Mr Vujović's dilemma. Let's say Mr. Vujovic, too, would like to accept one of these amendments that he accepts. Whether to accept, well, both amendments can't be accepted, they can't intend and agricultural land and energy efficiency. By what percentage and in which part to go into both? And, if you would accept Mrs. Karavidic's amendment -- yes, Mr. Senic would not vote the other way around. If we accept Mr. Senic's amendment – yes, Mrs. Karavidic would be unhappy and would not vote. Please, as part of the parliamentary group, I hope you're communicating, I hope you have opinions on certain legal proposals, with these common views, and perform. That you do not put the assembly majority here or Mr Vujovic in an unenviable position, that because you did not agree we must reject both of these amendments because we cannot say that we prefer Mrs Karavidic to Mr Senic or vice versa.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33784	The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33785	I thank you, Mr. Replica, for not being my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33786	Please don't yell at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33787	I'm not yelling, I'm just talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33788	So you got to talk about the amendment, and if the MP said he didn't think anything of it, then it's up to me to assess whether you're going to get one or another chance. So there's no replica, you can only speak by amendment, and if you don't want to, my God, we have 500 more amendments, so we'll talk. You want to get the amendment? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33789	According to my colleague Senic's amendment, to be precise. This is the very proof that our parliamentary group is planning to make amendments to give various solutions. So is one of the solutions and my solution, i.e. the solution represented by me, which is energy efficiency, or the solution represented by counterpart Senic. It is a wide range of different solutions, well, then we hope that Mr Vujovic or any minister who defends one of the laws will accept one of our solutions. And your illusion is that there are no amendments in our parliamentary group, each thought differently, is not true. This is just proof that we are seriously approaching these amendments and that we have different solutions for which you are crying. This isn't critical stuff. We are not criticizing that we would only criticise, but that we were offering solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33790	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33791	I'll use the time of the head of the parliamentary group. I just want to explain to the public that it is possible to adopt both amendments. Therefore, in the event that both amendments were adopted, Article 165 would apply. The Rules of Procedure would also bring an agreement, possibly with the amendment of the Committee, by making it possible to adopt both amendments between these two proposals. So there are no differences in our parliamentary group. I will vote in favour of my colleague Branko Karavidic's proposal, as I expect her to vote for my proposal, as she has confirmed in her address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33792	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33793	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, I will try to convince the Honorable Minister to accept this amendment. In fact, this amendment refers to the fact that the funds achieved by selling the items are the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but that they are used to finance energy efficiency projects. I believe that sales can only be justified if known and where those funds go. I think we should specify the purpose of their use. Once again, in terms of the support of this claim, I will make the adoption of this amendment a multiple benefit not only for the Republic of Serbia's budget but also for the citizens, so that the benefits would be felt by the citizens by energy savings. Then the benefites would feel the businessmen who would participate in the design, the wheat of the carpentry that would be used for those purposes, for example. Then there would be an increase in the number of employees. Then, of course, the state would take a step in terms of its positive step, in terms of its energy efficiency. I ask you once again to consider this amendment that I think has multiple benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33794	The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicev. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33795	Of course, Article 5 isn't right, and that's why we suggest that it be deleted as well as the whole law. What is proposed by it? Excluding the purchase of immovable property, this means that the right to purchase a sale subject to the conditions laid down in this law has a legal or natural person who, in accordance with the law, uses the object of sale on the basis of a lease, under a contract concluded on a specified and indefinite time, before 1 January 2015 and so on. Why? First, we haven't come to get a serious answer about why these properties are being sold. I heard the minister say 40 million dinars or euros. Is that what this law is supposed to do? You personally, as an economic expert, expect only 40m euros from the immovableity in Serbia, so then you need to know how many squares, so that we know at least some parameter, to turn on the light. Not to be like a colleague from New Belgrade in defense of your laws said, and now she can't hear me, that New Belgrade is now being built out of the city budget. Well, it's also possible that street of the beautiful name "Vinogradska". But just so you know, it's the budget of the city of Belgrade, and this money goes into Serbia's budget. So it has nothing to do with this law. A fellow Kovacevic, what's his name, said he explained why it should not only be sold to tenants. It's a Article 5 that should only be sold to tenants, because that's what we're going to do to relieve citizens of further budget burdens. A colleague, from August 1st or from September 1st, new excise duties, on electricity colleagues, there has never been, never been, in Europe in five six places...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33796	Time
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33797	... Although I was convinced otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33798	Time. The word has been given by the MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33799	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Vujovic, honored guests and guests from the ministry, respected National Assembly presidents, with our guests and guests, I notice concerns on behalf of the Government, and I, respected gentlemen, would be concerned that I have to defend these laws in the National Assembly on behalf of the Government. In the case of our amendment, on Article 5 of this bill, I'm going to show you the extent of this concern, on these faces today, truly and desirable. Article 5 The bill of law, gentlemen, is in direct contrast to the President of the National Assembly, especially to you, you are a lawyer, with Article 3. The constitution of our republic is a direct attack, Minister Vujovic, on one of the greatest principles of every modern democracy, which is the principle of rule of law. Why, dear gentlemen? Here, Mrs. Gojkovic, very precise to explain. Because Article 5 provides that a person A who rents that property by 1 January 2015 may only buy that property. A B person who has so far had no idea about the possibility of renting, and a citizen is the Republic of Serbia, for example, cannot do that. What do you mean, esteemed gentlemen? That we have citizens A in our republic and that, on the other hand, President Gojkovic, I have citizens B, where citizens A, have all the rights possible, and where citizens of B have no right to this occasion. Minister Vuuovicu, could the market economy be without the rule of law. Mr. Marinkovic, President of the Economic Cocussus, can the free market be without the rule of law? Well, he can't, gentlemen, whoever votes for this bill directly attacks Article 5 on the principle of rule of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33800	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33801	I thank the honourable presidents, my understanding of the submission of amendments to each law is the maximum accuracy, logic, understanding of the text, the reduction of the different interpretation of legal provisions in everyday practice and the achievement of the best possible solutions in the given amendment due to the accuracy of the law. But the fact that respected colleagues suggest that this member be deleted does not allow discussion at all about the proposed amendment. So, we can discuss here, whether the tenants are favored, or not, whether they should have the right to an obstacle to purchase or not, but saying that the whole member is deleted doesn't, in my opinion, contribute to the very essence of the amendment. I will only list two reasons why this proposed solution is good. The first reason is that in this way the state of Serbia will come up with a list of immovableities that are not yet available, by the fact that tenants under Article 7 have to report within 30 days the immovableities they have and which pay the state, and the second reason is that they have to submit evidence that they have previously reconciled their financial obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33802	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Dr Vladimir Marinkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33803	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I thought that dear colleague Pavicevic and I share the same values when it comes to accessing economic policy and solving economic problems, it is precisely individual freedom, it is a free market, it is the rule of law and peace. Of course, these are the values established by Adam Sweete 240 years ago, after David Trigardo, Hayek, and all the thinkers of economic theorists, at the end of the 20th century and our contemporaries. But there's no free market game, if there's no database on state property, which someone should have built and done, I'll remind you that over 500,000 units of real estate exist in this country, and for 20% of the state's auditor's findings, we don't know where they're being used, neither of which benefits nor the state has absolutely anything. There is no free market economy or free competition unless we have information on how many employees there are in the public sector. Only Minister Kori Udovici began to solve this problem and came up with this final figure, so that we could define public policies in the next period, because you'll agree, hopefully, with me, there is no savings policy, no strategic economic development, if you don't know what you're up to. This is a different policy, a clean account policy that wants to define what Serbia has, but also wants those who are the most efficient, which is the most productive, which is private capital, to use this property, and in line with the biggest and highest ideals, free market economies, to create additional value, and create conditions for Serbia to finally be an economically developed country. So, private entrepreneurs and private initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33804	The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33805	We have changed Article 5 and, in practice, we propose that the circle of persons who have the right to purchase objects of immovable property determined by this law be extended to other persons, who, otherwise according to positive legal regulations, have the right to acquire immovable property, and in addition to this amendment, we foresee that the sale is carried out by public competition, because we believe that this makes it possible to achieve a better price of the case, sales, and also the process of selling, transparent. I am very sorry that there is no Minister Vujovic, but I will make my claim and that my amendment is good, support the issues, why is the government denying the possibility of obtaining more funds on the basis of the sale and why is the government in a hurry? It is suspected that in this way someone is able to acquire property for small money, and besides, if the law is passed as it is, without the possibility of public competition, or in this form, very soon the citizens will know who it is and how much small money they bought the business space, the building, an apartment in the attractive part of Belgrade. Once again, I repeat, as well as my colleague Senic and many before me, I hope that we will never again get such pointless arguments about the refusal of our amendments, as the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is more celery, simply humiliating for the MPs, who write the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33806	First, Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33807	I have a problem because the minister is not in the O.R., so please set a break, while, because I want to speak when the minister, the government's representative, is in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33808	The minister has the right to come out from time to time, so I'd have to get the MPs to sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33809	I do not dispute his right, but none of these present have the opportunity to accept my amendment if they agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33810	So he doesn't want to accept your amendment, I don't want to debate, I can't take breaks all the time... ..
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33811	I'm just asking you to ensure the presence of someone from the government, here's the minister coming in, we'll wait for him to sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33812	Okay, well, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33813	I'm using my time as the head of the parliamentary group, so I haven't wasted my time, I've just started wasting it, and you can't take my time, as the minister comes to sit down. It's time for a man to sit down, pour water... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33814	You'll find me exactly that member of the Rules of Procedure, so I'll apply it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33815	It does not say in the Rules of Procedure, but it does say in the "Gorek Wedding" -- the law in the topuz, the traces smell inhumane.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33816	I thank the MP, excellent, sit down, five.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33817	Mr. Minister, I remind you that in principle you have spoken the following sentence – for me the last and most important affirmation of the principles of market value and transparency. I agree fully with you, but we do not understand why it is not possible for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to participate in the purchase of immovable property owned or owned by the Republic of Serbia. So you just didn't explain it to us in the discussion in principle. Please do it now. We're getting tips from the citizens. I don't want to believe it, but it's the citizens who came to us. They say the law is written because of certain government officials so that they can buy real estates owned by the Republic of Serbia at lower prices than the market, so that they can buy apartments in which they now live and that they do not allow market competition and an increase in public competition prices and thus achieve higher income from the sale of real estate by the Republic of Serbia, when you have already decided to sell the property of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33818	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33819	As long as that question is asked, I will answer the same question. Six hundred fourteen contracts and annexes of the contract formed the Property Directorate by 2012. From 2012 to today, not until the beginning of the calendar year 2015, until when it gives the right to this law, but to the day of today, it has made up 78 contracts. If she made those 78 contracts with the government officials, this government, which she made these 614 contracts with. So, with the officials and their aunts, the snorkels, your aunts, and I don't know everything about you until 2012. (Alexander Senic, from the place: Not with me.) ) On the other hand, it is not enough just to fold your shoulders and say – not with me, not with me, and I do not need such things, but I do not want to break the Rules of Procedure by laying down this way. I listened very carefully to everyone in this room. As for the rights and rule of law, when the country is sold in Serbia, when the host decides to sell a piece of land, there is the right to prevent purchases, and the right to prevent purchases have learies of the country, those in the neighbourhood have the right to intercept purchases. I can see someone wasn't shopping here, but they did sell out. Therefore, this is nothing beyond some of the rules that have been in force so far or have been applied in the Republic of Serbia. Besides, in this way and those 614 contracts she leased, which he made and made and signed the former regime, we give the right to these people as well. This does not apply to these 78 contracts that have been made until the day of today, also applies to these 614 former regime officials, if we are to talk about it that way and that argument. Besides, I think these people have the right to stop buying, they're in these properties, they're investing in them, investment or any other investment, they're doing the work. Why should they feel insecure? Why would insecureness, perhaps some people who work in these properties, perhaps lose their jobs? Why look at it that way? Why don't we look at the way we're so far as a state, as a society, no matter who's in power... There was no tax on those properties. Who would pay taxes? A country of itself. In this way, the state would earn on the basis of the price of the sale. How many will be interested and what is the price I really don't know, but I believe Mr Vujovic will inform us about it. On the other hand, not a big enough momentum could be launched, but some kind of momentum would be for the construction industry, because these people would now invest in their own. On the third hand, they could borrow credit, because that would put a mortgage on the property that is now theirs. On the fourth hand, the state would permanently, from the day of sale, on the other hand, charge taxes. What's going on? It's a lease. Which one? What's that? How much? There are no partials here. There's no courting anyone here and giving advantage to anyone, because here people are mostly those whose former regime has given them the right and the opportunity to draw up a contract and an annex to a lease on that property. Six hundred fourteen contracts until 2012 and 78 contracts from 2012 to today. And we're talking about seven hundred people, of which we inherited 614. They're right, and we're looking at it the same way. It would be bad if they said, yes, only those who have rented it over the past year, but 614 people, natural or legal persons, are in those properties that have been for years, not to say for tens of years, in those properties. So we're not talking casually, we're not talking unseriously, we're not talking about officials that will come easily to real estate and apartment. No thanks, we don't need it. After all, there is the Anti-Corruption Agency where it would immediately appear which official was given the opportunity to buy out the property. On the other hand, maybe we'll see some family ties with the former regime, maybe we'll see some people who, of those 614, are close to someone else. What are we gonna do about it? I think this law is good, that in this way the state will come up with one permanent income on behalf of the tax, there will be one current income on behalf of the money that will be obtained from the sale of these properties and everything that does not serve its purpose, does not serve the state, of course we should get rid of these things and of course they must continue to live or work on those who have lived and worked in them so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33820	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33821	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to the presentations of this law, and I am one of those who will say that he has the understanding to pass such a law, because it is indeed the fact that there is a large number of state property that serves nothing and costs the state. It also turned out that we were not exactly able as a state to manage state property in the right way and to increase value. Why am I reporting on this amendment and why am I going to try to answer Mr. Babic's information that he's provided, 618, I don't know, 78? It's all right. Let's assume that every government has its own favorites and that you need to have some kind of connection to get to the lease of state property. By 2012, I don't know how many, and since 2012, we've seen 78 people. My question, Mr. Minister, why are we giving this property, why is the state selling below the real price? Not to whom it's sold, as Mr. Babic explained. Why isn't there a public tendering process? That's my question. So, all these tenants, both old and new, go through the public tender procedure. We heard in the debate, in principle, the experience of the city of Belgrade, that the place that was estimated to be 9,000 euros was sold for 38, so maybe the same thing happens in this case, and we can give the right to intercept the purchase of the current tenant. Let's set a fair price, not according to the tax administration's assessment, because you know it varies significantly, let's take a salary from any one of them in Belgrade. It's market value for one price, but if you could get out certain parameters, that goes times three times four times the tax administration estimate. I'll agree with everything you've said, but through law alone put a public bidding. Let's honestly set a price that would really pay any citizen, and whoever's on the lease, gives him the right to talk about buying so he doesn't fire workers all the things we've heard as arguments. I think, Mr. Minister, it's hard for you to give me some argument that this kind of procedure is wrong. On the other hand, I think this would be significant for the government, because as an opposition, we now question the good intentions of the lawmaker. If you have a public competition, we have nothing to talk about. The rules of the game are the same for everyone. The state will achieve the best price, resolve the unnecessarily unnecessarily immovableity and no one will doubt that it has not been done in a fair and correct manner. So let everything stand out the way it is, but let's be honest, let's be honest, let's put the public tender procedure through whatever amendment you want, you have more amendments, look, consider which one you can adopt, and through that procedure this law will really get in the sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33822	Thank you, Mr. Homen. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33823	With the principle that a state should in each transaction, including transactions provided for by this law to achieve the best value, the best valorisation of state assets is perfectly acceptable. And any method that allows it will have my support. In selling real estate or anything else, which isn't freed people, things, other legal constraints, you can't expect the auction to give the best result. Here it might be better to parallel with the IRS, as we discussed in general in the debate, introduce parallel skills. We can test, we can even auction, but if you, here, ask yourself, if you compete to give a price on some real estate that you know is after a long-term lease, you'll first bid a lower price or someone here will show up who only with a high deposit can ensure that people are serious in that auction and then you'll get a situation where you'll first quote the price. I'm in favour of using any method we can use, including the last selling price of comparable objects, the tax administration's assessment, other sources of art, etc. The objective of those who have prepared the law is absolutely not to sell it at a fixed price lower than the market price. There is absolutely no such intention, hidden or open. So, I don't mind adding, just to make an amendment that can do so without other restrictions. But just so we're aware that the object of things, apartments, garages, business facilities and others that are leased don't appear to free objects that will give the right market value in the auction is both theory and practice and just to be aware. Another very important thing, and this is because here is often done by objects that are subject to use by someone with the silent right to invest in these facilities whoever was in these buildings and apartments that are not subject to this law, but are subject to alienation by the government's latest solutions through auctions and other things, we have difficulty selling these apartments and immovableities at a normal price because they are in an abandoned state. These are apartments where ongoing and investment maintenance has not been made for 20, 30 and more years and require significant investments. You today to change basic installations, sewerage, plumbing, heating, bathrooms, kitchen, parquets, floors and everything else requires quite an investment of 15%-30% of the value of these apartments. We'll sell it, too. We'll see about that. Therefore, those amendments that allow alternative assessments...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33824	Minister, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33825	... They're perfectly acceptable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33826	Thank you. You spoke a minute longer. Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33827	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, well, here's the second day I'm already listening to the exposure and justifications why the state property that's on the lease should go for sale at an estimated value without bidding, and only those who have discretionary rights that the state property has been leased, and I can't help thinking that this is one in a series of laws written for someone, because this law has a deadline, respected citizens that all these people who have been hired have the possibility of applying, otherwise, probably according to law, losing that right. I ask, Mr. Minister, why did you refuse our amendment to our parliamentary group, which was respected by colleagues Senic and Branka, if all you say is true? What you have done so far, you have not accepted that, as you say, both money, and we have suggested that these money be put into the function of revitalising the Serbian economy? We're talking about that economy. Energy efficiency is the revitalisation of the Serbian economy. Promoting agricultural production or investing in agriculture is an investment of the Serbian economy. We're talking about investments, new jobs. You in Nis gassed factories that were, you say, a burden. All right. Last time, i.e. The day before yesterday, there was a story about the suspension of extra jobs by budgetary users. It's in Nis that I don't bid, that I don't get it badly, hundreds of people. Now we're talking about the state, okay, your political decision, having a congregation majority, to sell, is your decision. We say let's sell, but sell at the highest price. You're telling me about someone investing. He couldn't invest without the owner's consent. He can't. Without direction, he can't. How's someone gonna do that? They can get him out of there right now. If reducing funds is what you say that someone got a cut in the rent. All those who work in the city administrations and who worked know how it goes, how much, so I don't waste my time right now. And now you're all saying it's like it's okay, but it's gonna stay like we said. Well, it's not domestic behavior. That's not economic. It's not developmental. I don't know what expression to use to make you understand. I understand the congregation's majority as well. All the time she here accepts the authority of the ministers and the government as the truth and votes for what you bring and that's not the problem. It's your political decision, and normally, as we agreed, it will be decided on the day of the election when elections take place. And you need people to be true and right to lead you through the vote. This is the law you will bring, but this law will not bring happiness to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33828	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33829	Two arguments why this amendment should not be accepted. Let's look at it in a practical way. We have a legal or physical person who owns an apartment or a business space. In previous months, this legal or physical person made an investment in that property of several thousand or several tens of thousands of euros, with the agreement of course of the Property Directorate. Now a third legal or physical person will appear through a public competition that will dictate a greater value. What about the funds the tenant invested in that property? What do we do with that? Will by accepting such an amendment enter into a series of court proceedings and evidence and costs on the burden of the Serbian state or will we believe in a word or will we reduce it on the basis of the time of stay in those properties and in that business space? Stuck and gagged. On the other hand, when I listen to some colleagues who are so soulful that they should not trust the Government for a word, as one colleague said earlier, and on the other hand, another colleague who says – the auction is Mother Mara, and why didn't you use those two arguments when the governments you supported were selling candy without a bid for one euro? What do you think we picked up the funds back then for how much those sugars were really worth? So how much would that be for energy efficiency? What do you think the incentives for agriculture would be? So how much would it be then for farm owners and for everything you're asking for right now and for this little amount of money, what do you think it's going to run? I don't know what you're asking for. Why didn't you slap your hand with a hundred and say, "We want to bid, we don't trust the government then, we don't trust people who used to stretch and propagate such things"? Why didn't you ask for a bid then? Well, maybe two euros, maybe three, and maybe my colleague Jovicic would offer five, no more. But it's more than as much as it gets. Is parliament asked about it? It's not. Has anyone been asked? It's not. But then you trusted the government with your word of honor. She said the government's word of honor and it's cemented. Now there's another government we don't support, and we can't trust them with a word of honor. You know, these double arches speak more about you than about us and the government of the Republic of Serbia. We work transparently, we work openly. We are working openly towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, transparently towards the MPs, because this is not a matter of any government regulation, but of a law which I hope we will vote on Friday, but still, in order to qualify, in order to worry about the rule of law, you must worry about the policy that was conducted by 2012, when our country was on a good track to be called Serbia, but Deltaland.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33830	Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica! When did you mention it, Mr. Zivkovic, to get the right to a replica? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Every reasonable man in this room would recognize that I have the right to a replica. If you think you're the ex-government exhibit and most important in that former government, you might think so, but I don't think so, so I didn't recognize you here, nor... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: If you start to think... I don't want to talk to you. You don't have the right to a replica, and that's completely understandable. You didn't mention it. The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honored Minister Vujovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I see these boys have left you here alone, along with Minister Vujovic, of course, and the Honored Vice President of the National Assembly and chairing today's session, which, I have not yet begun to explain, and is already preparing for Mr. Becic to turn off the microphone. Mr. Becic, you just injured Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which define the right of one or more of the people's messengers to a replica of the People's Messenger who had spoken before. Mr. Babic just spoke. He reacted to several interventions that Mr. Zivkovic had just announced here, as well as several interventions that I had about the terrible attack on the rule of law that the government is doing by proposing such a law. Mr. Becic, I think that your obligation to Mr. Zivkovic in the first place, and then to me, is to give the line to the MP, Mr. Zoran Babic, so that we can explain that Mr. Babic misrepresented the parts or our performances as a whole, or that Mr. Babic, the respected Mr. Becic, is not in the right way, as we wanted to explain, understood how this destroys the principle of rule of law, attaches to the rule of law by explaining the content of such a bill...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33832	Mr. Pavicevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33833	Here, you can't stand it, Mr. Vienna, without interrupting me... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33834	Mr. Pavicevic, could you please read the final point of view? Can you read the last position? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the site: If you turn my microphone on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and chairing today's session, Mr Bečić, the Honorable Minister Vujovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33836	You don't have much time, I'm just asking you to read the final point of view.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33837	... Mr. Becic asked me to read all the views of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33838	Just one last bet.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33839	Here we go in a row. Article 1 - if the MP... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33840	It's not worth it, Mr. Pavicevic, you don't want to read the last attitude. I'll read it below. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. I thank you. Who else is reporting on this amendment? The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33841	Just for a little while. I want to respond to the minister's proposal and try to return this debate to what it is, which is the subject of market value. I will agree with any amendment that you want to adopt and which creates and enables a competition, and please, if there is a possibility, if you do not like our amendment, to reshape through the board or in any way, but to put into the law a competition, a public competition, any way that will allow to show what the real price of immovableity is. Everything else we're discussing, I think it's less important than this thing. Since you said earlier that you had a willingness or understanding or that there might be a way for any of the amendments to be adopted, I ask you to do so in cooperation with the committee responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33842	Thank you, Mr. Homen. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33843	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr Babic set a good example of how businesses were purchased in Serbia and what the price was. This example of buying something for one euro, and that supplies exist in sugar or in another five-six million goods, is indeed scandalous. It's just the government's relationship to the state and the citizens of Serbia at the time. Mr. Babic said nicely that perhaps Mr. Jovicic, thinking of me, had five euros to pay for the company, unfortunately, I was 14 at the time and I had maybe 15 euros in a bank of pigs, but apparently there are those who do not have enough, so they must be allowed to buy something for one euro in Serbia. It's a shame. Today, when we want to finally write down the property of our country, to know what we have in our possession, to make it possible for some people who have been there for five, ten years, six years, it doesn't matter how much they can get in their property, you're accusing us. But if we see from these analyses who's in these properties, or these apartments, business spaces, they're mostly people who've become someone and something because they've got something in your time. We just want to make a system and finally know what we have as a country, that Serbia finally has income from it. Don't give lectures when you bought the company or state-owned enterprises for nothing, sold out the property, forced the workers into the street, and then pushed those same companies into bankruptcy. That's how you acted. You've changed the law of bankruptcy, you've changed everything as it suits you, and we today all the laws we adopt, we only adopt them for one purpose and for one purpose, which is that we finally make a system in our country and that we know what we have and what the owner of it is in the final truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33844	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33845	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I understand your need to preserve your honor and therefore your rhetoric, but if you don't turn that rhetoric into an amendment... So, if you don't like this one of ours, you have a chance for the government to submit an amendment and you have the opportunity for the committee to submit an amendment, reshape and allow us to make public competition possible. So, even though I had nothing to do with it personally, because by 2012, I worked in college, I was not an MP, nor was I in the government, nor was I involved in any exercise of any authority, but that by 2012, I was given to aunts, aunts, and I don't know who else to use or in privileged lease property, at least they weren't sold, i.e. given in possession of indemnity. Let the competition and some market, as you say, that's the most important thing for you, set a real price. I repeat, the Finance Committee has the opportunity to make an amendment as you think it is acceptable and to allow for the protection and protection of those who had previously invested, as well as to enable a competition to make as much revenue as possible for the budget of the sale of property of the Republic of Serbia, when you have already decided to sell it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33846	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33847	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are hearing a debate about how the market should regulate everything, and in this law, everything is contrary to free market flows. Where is it on the free market that the owner allows the tenant to buy his property without asking him anything? There's no such thing on the free market. My amendment refers to a change in the date until which contracts are recognised where the tenant is able to purchase the property he is using. I predicted that date for 1 January 2013. If there's an existing solution that you suggested, someone who contracted with the state in December last year, can buy the property he rented. It's a direct contract, Mr. Minister, it's nothing to do with the free market, and it's not a multi-annual lease, it's a months-long lease based on which you're making it possible for someone to come into possession of property. Why is another shadow thrown away, and why is that justified by some former authority? It enters the fourth year of the current government, and until when are we going to talk more about how someone used to do bad work? Why does it have to be worse today? It's something that's totally amazing. The citizens are getting worse and worse and worse. It was poor surveillance when it comes to privatisation in Serbia, not sufficiently precise law, not sufficiently precise, but why are we now in a situation where something worse is happening? We pay foreigners to buy our property, let the tenants buy without a match, without bidding, what they bought a few months ago, how is it possible that this proposal is in line with the market economy, the market economy you are calling for? An explanation of why you rejected my amendment – you say that the existing solution is more comprehensive. Who's more celery for? Well, of course, for those who wanted to buy the property they rented a few months ago. It's certainly more cellular for them. But it's not for the state. The state will not achieve the price it could achieve and if you wanted, you could make it possible, and in public bidding, to have the advantage of an existing tenant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33848	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33849	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With a reasonable assumption that you will not accept amendments from my colleagues who are proposed to sell the immovableities of the Republic of Serbia through public competition, as well as those proposed to have all and not just tenants, I have tried to give one transitional solution, by intervening with my amendment to Article 5, so as to say "before 1 January 2015" is replaced by the words "at the latest one year before the date of entry into force of this law". The essence of this amendment is that the right to purchase items of sale only have tenants who concluded the lease agreement no later than one year before the date of entry into force of this law, and not after that. We believe that on 1 January 2015 as the final date of the conclusion of the lease agreement, which is legally relevant for the exercise of the right to purchase items of sale, is very close. There was already talk of this law, and there was the possibility to conclude contracts with the knowledge that there would be the possibility of buying out the property in question, which opens up the possibility of abuses and corruption. I really don't understand why it is so persistent to defend the view that only tenants have the right to buy, when at the same time it is said that the most tenants have concluded contracts by 2012 and that they are someone's aunts and aunts. We are not asking you to protect anyone's aunts and aunts, so once again we ask you to consider all these solutions that we offer you and to accept some of these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33850	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33851	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, each one goes by himself somehow. All amendment promoters come from some abuses, likely with the aim of devising at all these laws that simply look at this bad side, because we have 614 contracts by 2012, i.e. annexes, and 68 annexes from 2012 to today. What are we talking about now? We're talking about a legal lead. If we put a deadline for buying apartments, real estate, business space on January 1st of this year, it doesn't mean that everyone might be able to buy it. If we're talking about the rule of law, the competition, the call for competition, the tender for sale, then we're going to be in a position where people who actually made lease agreements with the Republic Property Directorate may not have the means at this point to buy these apartments. So it's going to happen that some other people, who can't wait to invest their money, buy these apartments, and these people stay on the street and have no legal opportunity at all to simply participate in that purchase. So we would bring ourselves to the neck of the great problems and trials of such solutions as the amendment's proposings suggest. Another thing to say somewhere, and where we all forget, is that there is a state audit institution that worked hard in 2013 a complete analysis of the availability of immovable property in the property of the Republic of Serbia. And you know what she said in her resume? Decidantly, 20 years ago, there is a failure to keep track of the existence of control over the availability of the Republika Srpska's immovableity, leading to a lack of a large inflow and an increase in revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So 20 years ago, the Republic of Serbia is missing an opportunity to increase revenues from the availability of immovable property. And why is that? Due to the lack of regulation, due to inadequate availability of assets, due to non-market availability, or by not applying market prices when the real estate is available. And now those same proposings are looking for market prices. Well, it will receive market prices by assessing the market value of these real estates by the Republic Public Revenue Administration. Secondly, let me tell you, even when we're talking about state-owned immovableities, just think of the sale and purchase of property that was in the '90s. It's an unequal position, if we want to put into the same equal value of property at all. It is true that market value will now have those who buy this value right now, after assessing the Republic Public Revenue Administration, they will have to have a really high price of housing to prepare for the purchase of this property they lived in not only for a year, but you have contracts that last 20 years. Perhaps at some point public enterprises 20 years ago gave people the opportunity to live in such apartments, and today these tenants may not have the opportunity to buy on these market conditions. For them, it will be a great burden. That's why they need to be given a chance. Because if we really do enter into the acceptance of certain amendments to the Proposer, they will no longer have that possibility. That's why this amendment really shouldn't be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33852	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33853	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. It is very convenient to read the law, then much easier to explain why an amendment is accepted or not accepted. If the tenant doesn't apply, there's no purchase. That's my question, as far as this member is concerned. If there's no public bidding, if the tenant doesn't apply, what's going on? The MPs say nothing, but I would like the minister to answer me. Why is it important to discuss a date that is restrictive, for tenants who will eventually want to apply? Why is it important to explain on what basis the decision was made on 1 January 2015? You must have some parameters on which you say – no, no, no, no, in 2012, no, 1997, but 1 January 2015. This is a legitimate question that is beneficial to the government to explain what it measured to manage the process of buying or selling immovable property only to the tenants who concluded the contract before 1 January 2015. If the tenant's request is missing, what law will you treat this property with? It's not the state that sold it, and please, it's nice. It means that the government must also have some assessment that most tenants will be interested in buying a property in which they contracted by 1 January 2015. These are the data needed to be heard in the dialogue so that it could really be discussed, and then on the basis of which it is estimated that the total value of this law is 40m euros by selling immovable property. And why the tenants who are, for example, On 7 April, they signed a lease agreement, if they did, is completely hypothetical, what is the reason why they are exempt from the right to apply for a purchase? The Institute of Public Competition or a solution that does not exist in the law on what happens to these immovableities, both things are missing. Whenever we want to reverse the subject from the fundamental problem of the law, the damage is common to us. It's unproductive. It's an interesting political folklore so talk about things that have nothing to do with the law but you'll have, together we'll have some real estates in which the tenants who didn't apply for the purchase. What are we gonna do with them? Does the Directorate throw them out and what happens to their status, with their contract? And why until January 1, 2015? Whatever amendment you accept, even if you don't accept none, I think it's a good idea for these things to be fully clarified during the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33854	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33855	Only one sentence of a deadline not in stone can be changed here. Our idea was, since we started with the Working Group on the preparation of this law on February 1st, we wanted to prevent these from being informed directly or indirectly of any legal actions that might affect the outcome. That's why we said a month before we first started talking, a month before that we'd knock like a date. You can talk about earlier dates. We put this as a date so you wouldn't post-shops, you know how it goes everywhere, there's news of it. From the first moment of preparation, we wanted to say that no one can later exercise the right to be the basis for the ransom. As far as the values I mentioned were concerned, I mentioned my intuition, based solely on the information we received from the DIPOS and the Property and Real Estate Management Directorate, Business Areas, garages, apartments and other housing facilities that were leased on January 1st of this year. That doesn't mean that it's left. This does not mean that this will not change in the future, it does not mean that it will not be necessary to do so in the future by other laws and other measures. It is also absolutely not related to apartments, buildings and other properties that are not under long-term lease agreements. So they normally privatize using auctions, even here if we find a way to propose an amendment. I think that this formulation -- and the other competent authority -- could only be made by auctioning or evaluating another competent authority, which then includes all the artificial, authorized bodies, etc., so we can agree to see through the board to make it. I don't mind. I'm going to defend that in government and everywhere. Therefore, it is sacred for me to assess the real market value. These examples you're referring to are emergency situations, where someone bought some small living space for a whole other reason. It's not metric for sale. Otherwise, everyone here knows very well what real market prices are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33856	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33857	I'll use the time of the head of the parliamentary group. So, Mr. Minister, I'm asking you to plead in terms of whether you now want the session to be interrupted and the committee to make an amendment? (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) So we continue to insist, quoting what the minister said in the principle of affirming the principle of market value and determining transparency in work. So, if the minister wants to, i.e. accept our amendments in part, I call on him to take a break and to set up an amendment by the Finance Committee, so that we all agree together to define the process of public competition and the market value assessment process. So, starting prices. I remind a colleague who said here that the public revenue administration, the tax administration says here, doesn't matter, so the tax administration gives an adequate assessment. The other day in Master Jovanovic, Belgrade, he sold the property the tax administration estimated at 9,000 euros and sold for 39,000 euros. So that's more than a quadruple value, an increased auction. If we really aim to fill the budget then we must enable a competition and a public competition in the sale of the property of the Republic of Serbia, if you have already decided to sell it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33858	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the chairman had to point to a colleague who spoke before me of some provisions of the Rules of Procedure, in the part where the chairman must take care of the compliance of the Rules of Procedure, which refers to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure. Apparently, a colleague understands who says things like this and the Rules of Procedure and in laws the same. This means that he has no idea, Article 157(6) says – from the completion of the principled search to the opening of the draft law, it must be at least 24 hours, that is, paragraph 5. – in the time between the completed principled search and the opening of the draft law in particular, the committee in charge may submit an amendment. Either someone forgot about this article, this attitude, or he forgot that this morning a debate was launched in detail. The Finance Committee can no longer submit any amendments. We can negotiate as much as we want, this amendment cannot be submitted. 1 (Gordana Comić, from the place: Yes, if adopted... We can't interrupt the session. The only thing that can be... (Alexander Senić, from place: Article 165)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33860	Please, Mr. Senic, don't hesitate to let Mr. Arsic finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33861	I know what's said here, and that's said to stop now, and 165 can only be said when it's voting day and voting day. Well, I didn't write you this Rules of Procedure. Well, you may not have exercised power, but you've written your rules of procedure, you've been an MP here. Well, learn at least once that Rules of Procedure for all these years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33862	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Arsic, you beat me to it and told me what it was my duty to say, only because after Mr. Senic was exposed, and I didn't want to interrupt him, and I would explain it after he was exposed, but you pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I had to give you immediately, it is your right, but in any case I thank you for saying exactly what was my duty as chairman to warn the MP of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 157. Veroljub Arsic, from the post: I do not want to vote. ) So it is clear that at this point I do not have the opportunity to end this debate and to allow the Finance Committee to submit an amendment. Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33863	Yeah. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is possible for the Committee on Finance to adopt the amendment, by accepting others, and so it will change, because it is not in line with this proposal, but irrelevant. What is most important, Mr. Minister, is the assessment carried out by the tax administration based on a methodology that will not bring an adequate remuneration to the state for the properties it sells, because it takes the average value of two or three properties sold in the previous months in the given area. And since it is common knowledge of the state of the real estate market and that there is no sale and no purchase, these errors that occur during the assessment of the tax administration are very common in the previous year and this year. For that reason, the only way to get a market solution is to bid a match and I can't figure out why it doesn't suit you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33864	I thank Mr Jovanovic, but for accurate informing the MPs, what we know by the Rules of Procedure, that he can't again and you haven't given the correct information. At this point, we cannot take a break and adopt the amendment in such a way, it can only be in the course of the vote, if the amendment that was in college was accepted, then at that moment we could take a break and make that thing right. So, this is purely for public information. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33865	Well, I'd like to, uh, represent that thesis, to discuss a bid on some property where it won't be in possession for ten years. Come on, find me someone like that, right here in this room. Or we'll hire whoever's ten years old, from 31.12.2014. The ten-year ten-year leaser. Will someone buy that apartment besides him? Well, no one will. And if we get him out of the apartment, the state has to pay him for all the rent in the future. He has to pay him rent for the same apartment. You want to buy such apartments? Well, that's funny to you, because the burden that the state then made towards itself and the tenant of the apartment is passed on to the new owner. We can say by law – no longer applies, but we will fall in the Constitutional Court. Well, you can keep your head down for as long as you want. Buy some real estate that's been under the burden of housing for 10 years. Well, you won't. So don't salt our minds any more, as I pray to God.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33866	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Vanja Vukic and joint MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go. MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33867	Of course, no member of this law is good. Article 6 deals with the price per square metre and says that this determines the market value by the tax authority or another competent authority. The minister said his 40m-euro assessment as a potential income. If you'd listened, you'd be fine. An MP across the street told us that about 700 buildings are in the lease, that they're part of this sale. So when you divide 40 million by 700 you get that somewhere, if I count correctly, about 600 euros per square. And I hear it's the DIPOS facilities, which are of course not in Kaludjerica, but on Dedinj. This means that the expert assessment of the esteemed finance minister is that nearly 700 Majo objects on Dedinj and Vračar will be sold at a price of 600 euros per square metre. The Minister of Mass says no. And then the Ministers tell me where those facilities are. If only you and Babic know where these objects are, then it's abuse of position. If that's a secret, you can't know either. If that's not a secret, then the MPs of the Serbian Parliament must know. Can you understand what you're doing with this law? You're talking about an estimate of bids. Well, the main problem is that they can't buy it, which is unacceptable only for current ten-year leases, so don't sell it for the next 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33868	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33869	And where do the money go?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33870	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33871	I would ask you not to quote numbers out of context. I said it was my estimate that at best you could make a 40 million income. I didn't say by any chance that anything that meets the criteria of this law would be sold. Therefore, dividing two digits from different sources, with different assumptions etc., makes no sense. I expect that there will be a market price and that it will be minimally different from the market price that today is charged by agencies that are massive in Belgrade, there are sales, estimated, offered by the market, etc. And I don't expect that anywhere near everything there is will be, I mean also, I'm not against expanding the method to all the methods that exist, but I don't think that auctioning in the conditions of limited real estate will give any better results than assessing the tax line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33872	I thank you, Mr. Minister. He's got a word... (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) Why do you think you have the right to reply to the answer given by Mr Vujovic to the question you asked? Because you're not happy with the answer. Well, that can't be done, Mr. Zivkovic. Mr. Pavicevic, do you want a word? Amendment holder, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Vujovic, distinguished guests from the ministry and respected Vice President of the National Assembly. In Article 6(1), the price per square metre, the subject matter of sale shall be determined in accordance with the market value established by the tax authority or other competent authority. Dear gentlemen, what is it worth when in this position of Article 6, we define the market value, if previously, and with this article we have cemented it to Mr Vujovic, all of our citizens contrary to attitudes 1 and 2. The constitution, divided by the award-winning "A" who have rights and citizens "B" whom the vast number of Minister Vujovic, who do not have rights, and then say: the market value will apply to those citizens who belong to the "A" citizens. So now they call me Ivana, a co-worker downstairs, says: The city pact. Is it possible that we have one law that makes the division of our citizens to those who have a small number, who have some rights and a huge number that have no right to a single question, Mr Vujovic. And then I ask myself one more thing -- how can such anger be announced by the chairman of the Finance Committee on this amendment? Mr. Arsic, for our argument, dear gentlemen, concerning Mr. Arsic, the protection of the rule of law, has no respect for gentlemen, Mr. Vujovic, for reforms. That is the most commonly used word of ministers in this government, the Prime Minister, has no reform if the rule of law has been abolished. And Mr. Arsic hears that, you Minister Vujovic in particular, chairing the sessions, of course, and the subject of our focus.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33874	Time. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33875	I'd like to ask you to stick to your membership. The previous few shows you were talking about the price when we talked about article 5 that defines who's right. Now we've moved on to Article 6 which speaks of market value, and you're talking about Article 5. I think a cross-breathing like this confuses all people, viewers, MPs and all that. You can't at all talk about who's right and when we talk about who has the right to talk about the price. Excuse me, this really isn't a good basis for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33876	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a People's MP... You have the right to a replica, Mr. Arsic. You are mentioned by name and last name. You have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33877	I'm surprised by this kind of anger and the accusation that there's no rule of law. I'm surprised, too, and some estimates of what real estate would cost, where those apartments are, by the man who had to know where the apartments were, and maybe it was even a consummation. Now that we're talking about Santa, and then we're talking about Vračar, not all apartments of the same value are on the Vrakar either. Can't just an apartment that only has an elevator, usually a staircase with plain tiles, cost the same as an apartment that has marble plates, which has private security, which has a garage with an elevator and is not all apartments of 150, 160, 170 squares, say, next to the Karadjorje's park and those that can be sold by the state. It seems to me that the value of these state-owned dwellings and these other large, largely different, is to the detriment of state-owned housing. Now, if someone is to identify such a private apartment as much as the state's, I think they're in great error.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33878	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33879	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and with a simple bill, when you compare what Mr Babic said about an estimate of 700 objects, you cannot possibly get a figure. The average value of a square meter would be about 800 euros, given that it is an average square, it is certainly in most cases less than 70 square meters per business space, per apartment. You have to count on that there's a garage. I don't see any reason not to accept a solution for the tax administration to assess the value of these properties. Therefore, it assesses the value of all real estate and, of course, when it comes to paying taxes on property, when it comes to paying taxes and transfer of absolute rights. I see no reason why the tax administration, in line with the trend that is happening on the market, so sales prices over the past few months, define and set the price in the best possible way. So, with all my desire to understand why this amendment would be accepted, I cannot do it, because I think the tax administration is exactly the one institution that can define the price that is marketable, which is the most honest and I expect from my colleague Pavicevic to accept these arguments and to vote in that sense for this legal solution, because it is marketable. I think, at least, that it's not declarative with those of him who respects it, when it comes to forcing and implying the development of the market economy, the market economy and all of those models that he supports through his policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33880	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) Mr Marinkovic, assuming that I did not hear you mention Mr Pavicevic, did you mention Mr Pavicevic? Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is not acceptable precisely because of the argument we just heard from the amendment promoter. When I hear that argument that this law gives the right to a small, narrow group of people to harm and a burden to a wide group of other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I still cannot go back to what we experienced several years ago and the inability where the possibility was given, not to a small, narrow group of people, but only to one man to buy candy for one euro and all of us who did not have the right to do so. And how was that regular and legal? And just for that argument, just because of those double arches and standards, this isn't acceptable for SNS. A colleague also mentioned DIPOS. I didn't understand him very well, but I think the DIPOS might be better talked about by a colleague who's been in this room who's been on the board of directors for two and a half years. If he doesn't, he'll probably talk to someone else. We can also talk about what was done and how it was done within DIPOS and for that year, but also for those two years, but also for those years before and after. For SNS in general, this amendment is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33882	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Zivkovic, if you've identified yourself on the board of directors of DIPOS, I didn't recognize you there. I don't have that kind of information that you were a member of the board of directors, so maybe you'd only have someone who was on the board of directors of the DIPOS. Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33883	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All my amendments follow one thread and go towards that, as the most important thing in amending this law, they have just adopted a public tendering procedure. So this amendment to Article 6 which sets the price is followed by a public tendering procedure. I have amended the text of Article 6 and it should now provide that the price of the sale is determined in the public tendering process, which cannot be lower than the initial price. As an initial price in the tendering process, the market value of the immovable property established either by the tax administration or by the court expert shall be taken into account. In the case where there are both estimates, the starting price is taken by the higher one. We believe that this solution, in addition to the public tendering process, guarantees a better price for sale and a higher amount of funds that the Republic of Serbia can make by selling. The goal is to increase the initial price itself, and, of course, as the ultimate outcome, it should also be a higher level of funding in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33884	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Ivan Jovanovic. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33885	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, in my proposal and Mr Stefanovic's proposal is a solution currently in place, it is current on investment maintenance. According to the current legal rules, the person carrying out the investment maintenance must do so in agreement with the buyer, to make a diameter and pre-calculation, to make an investment and then be recognised in the lease contract, which reduces the lease price by the value shown in the valid accounts. I don't see any reason why we're introducing new institutes and introducing new procedures that will evaluate some new value of investment investment, even up to 25%, when we have an existing solution that treats this investment investment in one better way. We suspect it's for someone and for someone, and that's completely unnecessary. If you have a procedure that has existed so far, which has treated it in one way, why is a new way that is worse, that introduces a new arbitration, completely unnecessary? If you have the first expert assessment done, based on this expert assessment an investment has been made according to the diameter and pre-calculation, why are we now reintroducing the City Office for Assessment into this law and that it is now re-evaluating? I think it is something that casts further doubt on this proposed law and does not comply with the procedure of one market economy, because if one market economy contract was valid a year ago, two days ago, why is it not valid today and why must the conditions under which an investment investment is estimated change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33886	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33887	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, by very clear amendment, I propose that the price of the case is determined in the public tendering process, by not being lower than the initial price, and that the initial price in the public tendering process be the market value of the sales subject matter established by the construction profession's experts on the list of authorised judicial skills. Since last week, we have an example that in the street of Lord John the Tax Administration has estimated that one immovableity is worth 9,000 euros. After a public bidding, this property was sold for 39,000 euros. If we really want to secure as much revenue as possible for the Republic of Serbia's budget, because the minister says, in order to meet other strong obligations, it is necessary that the property, when you have decided to sell it, is sold at market conditions and at market price, and therefore I suggest that the initial price be determined by court experts who are certainly more qualified for it than people who work in the tax administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33888	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33889	Thank you, President, thank you, Mr Becic, the respected Minister Vujovic, a member of one of the most inefficient governments in the world. You, Mr Vujovic, will be remembered as someone who has sold the property of the Republic of Serbia for the Tepsia of the fish, and you have just built a political promotion, or your colleagues who have chosen you to be a critic of the system. Whether it will happen in 10, 20, 30, or 50 real estate cases on Dedinj will be sold for 600 or 700 euros per square, worth four or 5,000 euros, we will see, but in all likelihood, it will. In the name of the Turnover Movement, I have submitted an amendment asking that instead of tax authorities the price of squares of real estate determine the court's skill of adequate profession, we have talked about it several times already. Therefore, the tax authority cannot, based on the division of the city into certain zones, set an adequate price. We know that in a court of law, the judges accept only the assessment of the court's skills and if their assessment of the tax authorities is not adequate. If you do not accept this amendment, it means that you agree to give some people, some tycoons who may have rented these properties as members of one party, and now may be members of another party. Well, that's not impossible either, but you're giving that opportunity, and don't replace the thesis...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33890	Time's up, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33891	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I sincerely expected the applicant of this amendment to be grateful, not to judge, but rather to be grateful for the fact that these tenants were his party friends. In their time, they received lease contracts, and they just said they might have changed the party. Well, not everyone changes parties so often, Mr. Veselinovic. I propose not to accept this amendment to Article 6 of the proposed law and to join myself in a very short but very clear and precise explanation that we have received here from the Government that is said - that the proposed solution is a more comprehensive one. This is an entirely acceptable explanation for me, and the tax authority is the relevant authority. Therefore, the relevant information when it comes to the determination of market value is the information obtained from the tax authority as provided for by this Article and by this law. I think we've talked about this several times, although some other legal proposals, some other legal solutions that covered the area of spatial planning, etc., but basically everything has already been said several times. I call upon the motionor to help himself and his colleagues, to listen to both the stenogram and the videos, and he will find that this is the truth that I'm talking about and to start calling once we really have something to say and what to suggest. In any case, I call upon everyone to refuse this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33892	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. You have the right to a replica, because you're mentioned in the presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33893	Chairman, that's right. So it is true, dear fellow, that these things have already been spoken of under previous laws and that even the MPs of the opposition who are in progress in both matter and in law enforcement, or that financial experts have supported such amendments. Therefore, the tax authority has indicative prices for certain locations based on which it determines the tax on property. Those aren't market prices. In one zone there can be a place worth 1,000 euros per square and a place worth 3,000 euros. We are now in a situation, if we take the tax assessment as a basis, that someone for a locale whose value is 800, 900 euros per square, will pay that price, and that the price of a place at another location in the same area, whose value is, say, six, seven thousand euros, will pay the same 900 euros. So it won't be all in the same position. This isn't about repeating the right obstacle to purchase. It's not about the right angle of purchase. The right to prevent purchases has been established where there are several possible buyers. There's only one buyer here, and there's no right to an obstacle to buying if you've chosen a specific buyer. Therefore, dear colleague, the state will lose this way because no competition is envisaged and no body is envisaged to adequately determine the market value of the property.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33894	Thank you. The word has been sent by the people, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33895	Now we've come up with some things, very interesting. First of all, we've determined that someone wants the court experts to determine the value of the property. The second thing, we found that the largest number of users of these apartments, not the locals, is a big difference, representatives of the former regime. Now we need to determine the third thing, which is that the tax assessors are the people who work for the state and protect the state. Court assessors present their position in court and it is not binding on the court. It's a matter of their assessment. Now, will we, on the basis of a person who has been given a public right during the former regime, assess the properties used by members of the former regime or give that public right to civil servants who have a job and pay to protect that state interest? I now find it very suspicious that the court expert who received the license while one Peric was a minister, from that minister, will also assess the property or friends of the minister or high-ranking members of the former regime's parties. Why don't we go with that reverse logic? I think that if this amendment is accepted, it's possible. Don't wave paper and mix frogs anymore, because when you estimate the value of the place, you estimate its material value, but the place is also estimated based on its commercial value from which someone needs to earn some profit. Apartments do not make profits, live in them, and value estimates are based on the age of the facility, location and equipment it has. Not to talk, parquet, boat floor, brick, etc., etc. But when you sell a place that goes to the market to make money, as a retail space, as an office space, its market value is also appreciated, that is, its market that the place can make and earn to the new owner. So, I think some things here are very, very mixed, or they're a matter of ignorance, or they're a matter of deliberate twisting the truth to make political points. Both are perfectly legitimate rights. Just once to be clear, the work of a MP is the same to protect the state, not the individual. Well, at least do it like that. If it's ignorance, fine. But if you know and deliberately twist, then that's a serious problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33896	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33897	Dear Chairman, Article 27. Rules of Procedure on the conduct of the session. So me and Mr. Arsic got different texts of the law. My bill says that the subject of selling apartments, business premises, garages, etc., and the text of Mr. Arsic says that they are only apartments, so please if we can take a break to agree whether I have received an adequate text...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33898	I thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Very funny. Mr. Arsic mentioned both apartments and bars and business spaces, so this is what you're saying only clearly, not to us, so I can't react. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) I thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33899	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's precisely the reason that a previous colleague who talked about not having to accept the amendment is actually the reason for accepting the amendments, because the Tax Administration is looking at the zones, looking at previous sales prices, and that's that. And the court experts, who are under oath, unlike the people who work in the IRS, value what material the facility is made of, from what condition it is, etc. So you can't convince me that the tax authority will only give a more adequate assessment based on papers from a court expert who has an obligation to go out on the ground, to record an object, to measure it once more, because it can disagree with what's really on the ground. So, you simply can't convince me that the tax authority will be more precise, better and more meaningful in assessing the value of some immovableity than permanent judicial skills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33900	Thank you, Mr. Senic. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33901	Article 6(1), in our opinion, should be amended and read as follows: ‘The price per square metre of the case is determined in accordance with the market value established by the authorised court expert’. The principal seller, i.e. the state in this case, determines the value and based on the evolution of the square meter price of the same or similar immovableity at the time of the advertising of the sale decision. The role of the Tax Administration begins and ends in determining the tax scale to be paid on the basis of this type of legal transaction, i.e. purchases, not that the tax administration determines the market value. We think this is a bad solution because it extends the powers of the Tax Administration that are not within their jurisdiction. It is recalled that the tax administration which determines the founding situation on the market and the possible scale is a minimum, immovable, immovable, initial lower price of immovableity if it is going to bid, registration of taxpayers, tax control, regular and forced tax collection, care and avoidance of double tax, etc. From the above, we believe that the setting of the price per square metre of the sale case should be left to the court expert. We believe that their commitment to the area of expertise could affect accuracy, and thus the level of the price of the items sold. They are also bound by other acts that bear even criminal responsibility for the process itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33902	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović together submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33903	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was convinced that you would not accept the amendments of my colleagues to sell the immovable property in public competition, although I consider it more appropriate. That's why I put the amendment to Article 6. Since the proposed sales method will be maintained, Article 6 regulates the way the price per square metre is formed for the immovable property concerned and in point 2 speaks of the rights to the adjustment of the tenants' price based on investments. I have suggested that this point 2 be deleted, because the tenants are already entitled to buy the immovable property in question in some way privileged to those who have never had the opportunity to acquire immovable property and who cannot buy it, so I suggested that this point 2 be deleted because, as a rule, the tenant can have investment investments in immovable property only with the consent of the immovable owner. In this case, consent should be given to the Property Directorate. If it is respected and the tenant asked for consent for investment investment, he had already had a reduction in the rent on that basis. By reducing and the prices based on the same investment investment on the same basis twice, the tenant gets the privilege. So I suggested that this point 2 be deleted and I ask you to think about this one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33904	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Senic, would you like a word on this amendment? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33905	I would like a word on this amendment to remind the Honorable Mr. Minister that the definition of investment investment has been defined as a lapus, although I say it is an attempt to contribute to the new Serbian language dictionary. So when you say investment investments, it's the same as saying empirical experiences, peak cumination, participation in participation or solution resolution, and at the session itself, you said the termological difference of acceptance. Investments are permanent investments. So they could be permanent investments or investments. I totally agree, we can iron that out – I apologize, it's more a lapus than a deliberate mistake. Thus, it will be easy for us to find common ground. Now I ask you why you changed your mind? So the “investment investment” syntagma has no meaning, it's pleonasm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33906	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33907	As you know, there is no live text. I told you Monday when the text was already written. I also said that you would submit the amendments and that I would be happy to accept the amendments. So, if you had submitted an amendment to... (Alexander Senic, from the place: It is filed. ) So, I do not accept the term – the previous ones, here already writes "the previous ones" before that. Therefore, there may be a result of investments or the result of investments made in the previous ten years. So we could accept that kind of intervention. I don't know what to replace here, past investments, it's been written here for the past ten years. So this technically is also going to be a bad line. If there are previous investments and for the past ten years. Look at the text. The second member is, the sentence is – the market value of the item sells the result of investment investments, the result of the investor's investment made in the last ten years. So all it has to do is read - the result of the investment for the past ten years. That way I can accept the amendment. But I'm afraid he's already been put up with this. According to what you just said, read, the text reads like this – if the market value of the subject-matter is the result of investment investments made by the ten years ago. I agreed with you. According to what I have agreed and what you have agreed, it should read – according to the investments made over the past ten years. Just erase the word - investment. Or – according to investments over the past ten years. (Alexander Senic, from the scene: I don't think you're right, but that's your business. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33908	The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicev. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33909	Of course, Article 7 is the continuation of the bad members of the bad law. I express my sincere suspicion that the minister has seen this law, let alone written. Article 7 shall define the time limit when applications for purchase and procedure can be submitted. Article 3 states that, with the requirement laid down in Article 1 of this Article, the tenant shall submit a legally valid ruling on the basis of which he is using the subject matter of sale. Is he a tenant? Yes, it is. So what can I prove? You give him the opportunity, as a tenant, to only run for the purchase of that property, and then ask him to prove he's a tenant. That's the point. That's what you wrote, Pera Petrovic or Asamakum or I don't know who. He has the right to buy, he just needs to prove he's the one. I think it's completely pointless. Well, I guess you have a list of tenants from those 700 facilities, or it's supposed to be scientific research, to make a commission, and take a loan from the UNDP to fund it. Is there anything in this country that's been done in the last three years, since nothing's been done before? So, the new government came to the moon's surface and made a state of Serbia. Now, in those three years, she could write about 700 objects who owns them, so we could get that information, so it would be our way to whether this is a law of abuse and a targeted ransom, or whether it's a law that makes any sense. Of course, it doesn't make any sense. I'd like the minister to say in his defense who wrote this law and who planted the minister of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33910	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Mr Vujovic, since you are only entitled to the amendment, allow Mr Pavicevic to complete the presentation, as an amendment promoter. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Becic, the honourable Ministers of Vujovic and the respected guests of the ministry, may I add two more notes to this argument, which has already been presented by the MP of the New Party, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, on the occasion of our amendment to Article 7.. First of all, I have a request for a minister. I must say, as a single note, the minister here today has been welcomed with respect, and I must say to the minister that it is not appropriate for the minister to determine what he can speak of, what he can speak of. Minister, you're our guest. It's your turn to listen and answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33912	Mr Pavicevic, please, you did not get the right to reply to the Minister's presentation 45 minutes ago, but to explain your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33913	Mr. Becic, you're the one who can say, for example. Don't talk to me about what's part of the agenda, but the minister can't. I had to intervene because you didn't. Another note for the minister, since in the position of Article 1 of this Bill, the application for the purchase of the case may be submitted within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, I ask the Minister to explain to us whether there is any idea of what happens if we theoretically assume that none of these tenants are applying. In what way will Minister Vujovic, respected, react to such an imaginary situation, since you, in the light of this law, have called for the budget of the Republic of Serbia? The budget in this imaginary situation will be cut off by certain means. What will be the result of such an imaginary situation, Mr. Vujovic? In particular, I ask you to respond to that first note that Mr. Zivkovic listed here, and as regards the existence of some of the tenants' records...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33914	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33915	I've got five more seconds, Mr. Becic. The minister speaks for a minute longer, and you're warning me five seconds before we're out of time, Mr. Becic, let us respect even the basic rules in this respected home, in the sanctuary, Mr. Becic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33916	Mr. Pavicevic, you can see that it's a practice to warn you five seconds before the time runs out, to have time to finish the sentence, to finish the presentation, so you understand. If you want me to warn you exactly the second you're running out of time, I'll do it from now on. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Correct. I'll finish right on time. The minister can do it for a minute, two minutes at a time. I understand, Mr. Pavicevic. I apologize for warning you five seconds earlier that you are slowly finishing your presentation. As I would be happy, Mr Pavicevic, that your words are true because Mr. Vujovic here is our guest, a representative of the government who needs to explain this law, and I would like not to hear what I hear from certain MPs during today's debate, to be insulted by him, Mr. Minister, as a representative of the Government, in certain qualifications which the minister says. Thank you. I wish that your words had an impact on individual MPs and that this was no longer happening. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33917	I fully agree with Mr. Zivkovic's proposal that point 1 would not be necessary, but unfortunately, we still live in the time in which all these documents are sought. So that someone would be anywhere with us the moment we made the so-called. and the state, the electronic state, the man will come with any personal document and we will very easily determine everything from citizenship and all other documents. Therefore, I hope so. For now, we have to look for documents, when people prove it, that they're doing the job of the state, that's where I totally agree with you. Unfortunately, we're not in a position to provide it to everyone yet. As for Mr Pavicevic's proposal, if you think the 30-day deadline is short, I expected your proposal to be to extend that deadline, not to write to delete this article. But if that doesn't happen, I'll be sorry, but the effect will be the same as if your amendment is adopted to erase all members. So, we're not gonna lose anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33918	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) On what basis, Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Pavicevic? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I am mentioned directly. I'm listening, but Mr. Secretary answered the questions you asked. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: He did not understand. ( b) Are you not satisfied with the answer? There's nothing I can do about it. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33919	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As for the member who determines the request for purchase, i.e. the way of purchase and deadline, I have tabled an amendment on the 1st item where the deadline is extended, where words are added after the point at the end of this 1st term: "and no later than 31 December 2015. “ So this law represents a lex specialis, and I think it is necessary to determine other than the purpose of the funds that I used to explain, which are made available by sale, and it is important to determine the period of its application. I propose that this be done by setting a pre-exclusive deadline for the submission of applications for the purchase of the case by sale, or by proposing that applications may be submitted no later than 31 December 2015. After this date, this right is lost, and it is not possible to apply the law. I mean, in addition, the effects of this law in terms of the assessment of the funds that will be achieved by the sale could also be clearly determined, which means that time-application of the law should also be limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33920	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33921	Thank you. A proposal is being accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33922	Thank you, Mr. Minister, and I realize that Mr. Minister as a representative of the motion, as a representative of the government, accepted the amendment to article 7 submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33923	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, we're going back to the topic of whether or not to allow public competition. So, with this amendment I predicted that not only the tenant but any interested person...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33924	Mr. Senic, I apologize, to make it clear to me, I do not see in your amendment to be talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33925	Read the article of the law, read the amendment, and you'll understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33926	I have the text of the bill and here it is spoken – a request for the purchase of items of sale can be submitted within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. And then it's quoted by the attitudes of what the request looks like and what it's supposed to be. So what you're saying right now has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33927	And I'm saying you don't read what's written next. So I'm saying that you delete Section 3 because it says that only a tenant can start the sale, and I say you delete that member and that he can start any interested person.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33928	You can't do that. You're just looking to delete this member and now I can't get into the reasons why you think this member should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33929	I want to explain why you need that attitude to be erased. I mean, that's why I'm calling right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33930	You are talking about some other amendments, and that is why the minister rightly had an objection to speak under certain amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33931	I'm just talking about Article 7 and Item 3 and 4 and I'm asking you to give me back my time. So my proposal is that every interested person can launch a public sale of real estate owned by the Republic of Serbia, so not just a tenant. In Article 7 and Article 3 and 4 of this article, you predicted that only a tenant could do so. I do not want a hundred or a thousand people in this country to be privileged in relation to the entire population of our country and that anyone can apply for the launch of property owned by the Republic of Serbia. That's why I'm predicting that paragraphs 3 and 4 are deleted and that anyone can start selling the property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33932	The People's MP Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 7th amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33933	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, therefore, I have suggested that I do not waste time reading my proposal in full on Article 7, I suggested that the Property Directorate is obliged to place it on the site within three days of receiving a request for purchase of immovable property. I received an answer that the amendment was not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution was more celery. All the time, Mr. Minister and you fellow members of the congregation have been talking about how transparent this is, how good it is for the budget, you don't let it get on the site so people can see what's being sold and at what cost. You do not want a bid to achieve the highest market price but you want an estimated price as a starting price. You don't want all citizens to have the right to compete and bid but only one who's privileged to get a lease, whoever he is. And then you say that's what you want to fill your budget with. Well, you don't want to fill the budget, and you also respect that it was in the past, as my dear colleague said, that the sugar shop was bought for one euro, and people were watching and we lost the election. Well, they're looking at you, too, but you don't want to realize that people are watching this, that you're selling something that's a state property to a privileged group of people at a privileged price. That's what you're trying to defend. You can't defend that. You can talk here that the country is cubed, but it's not cubed, it's round, it's kind of. This doesn't drink water, as people say. They're going to swallow this people and that, but this isn't good, this is a shame for the budget. With this you bring citizens of Serbia by who knows which way to the citizens of first and second order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33934	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33935	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 to delete the position of 4 which has been voted on – The tenant who wants to be recognised investment investments, with the requirement of Article 1 of this Article, also submits a special request for the recognition of investment investments. This is the continuation of the idea that I put forward in the previous amendment to Article 6, because I don't really think I need to favour certain tenants for any more reason. There is a high probability that most of them did not ask the owner's permission, for investment, and the question is what investments were to the extent that they were normal for creating living conditions or working conditions if it was business space, and who was installing a luxury because he had money, and now it needs to be reduced to the price at which he would buy at least or at zero because he had money to create such an ambience in which most citizens do not live.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33936	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. The 8th amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33937	Of course, an eighth member of a bad law can't be good. What's the problem here? It is said in the first position that the Directorate is obliged to send within three days of the date of the adoption of the law to the Agency for the Restitution of a request for notification whether the subject of the return is subject to the Return Act. So why haven't you done it already? Is buying the only reason the state knows the status of its apartment and whether that apartment has been taken away from someone's property and whether it should be returned under the Return Act? What has not been done so far? Imagine that drama when one of you gets this privilege privileged to buy an apartment on Santa, and then finds out after five days of applying or ten days, that he can't buy it because he's the object of restitution. Is this a serious law? These are reforms? Is this a budget-building thing? You're gonna pay back the debts that someone made before you and yourself? That's ridiculous. So this law doesn't deserve to get zero as a grade, let alone talk about it. For the previous member, it does not say at point 1 of the minister that he should bring a ID card, because he wants to buy an apartment but writes – a legally valid ID on the basis of which he uses the object of the sale. It's a lease agreement. Well, don't you have a lease contract but he has to bring it in. Which proves that he has the same contract as you have a contract in the archives. What does that have to do with the 21st century? What does that have to do with law reforms or any real and rational ones?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33938	Thank you. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, dear Minister Vujovic, I thank you once again for announcing my presentation that I am a professor, but here's for the accuracy of just saying that I don't have a teacher's calling yet, that I am a professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences and that in the status of rest, Mr. Chairman, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33940	I'm sorry, Mr. Senic confused me with his application, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33941	I believe that by my actions in the Assembly, I have earned this "professor"...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33942	I'm sorry, in advance, if I say that again, that title...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33943	And that is precisely why I have to remind Mr Becic once again based on the content of Article 8 of this bill and our amendment to the 8th Minister Vujovic of one thing which he is all of us, I think the MPs in this National Assembly surprised when he allowed it to contain such a bill in full, and in this particular case, Article 8. The bill of law comes to the National Assembly, gentlemen. Minister Vujovic, Article 8, his content confirms that you have accepted the policy formula in front of the economy, which is respected by Mr Vujovic, which means that you did not come here to advocate the free market, which is necessarily based on the principle of rule of law, but agreed that as a member of the government politics, political decisions and the idea that there should be a small privileged group of people who will legally get certain rights that they will not be able to count on other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that such a policy will be able to implement Minister Vujovic. Unexpected for me by you, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33944	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Thank you. (Alexander Senic, from the scene: I answered. ) On Article 8, I apologize you are right, I did not expect you to report to Mr. Homen's amendment. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33945	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, here's Mr. Secretary, who had just disturbed the word earlier in the previous period or over the past ten years. In this amendment we do not have that word, therefore, I, Mr. Minister, see no reason why you do not accept this amendment and, for example, that the sentence reads – unless the tenant has submitted a request for recognition of previous investments, you accept, okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33946	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33947	In line with the previous discussion with the exclusion of this for the previous member, the amendment is accepted here, to consistently apply the previous investment instead of investment investments in the member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33948	I would like to thank Mr. Minister and to conclude that the proposing representative has accepted the amendment to Article 8 submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Mrs. Komic, are you staying on your application? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33949	Question for the Minister concerning the now accepted amendment, wherever the previous investment occurs, on the deadlines defined by these first two positions of Article 8. It is said that – The Directorate is obliged to request the tenant to ask the Agency for restitution within three days of the date of receipt, whether the subject matter is immobility, that the subject of the sale is subject to return under the law. Within the same three days, from the date of receipt of the request for the purchase of the case, it is also required to send a tax or other competent authority a request for a market value, and then the question remains why does it do this second, what happens if it gets from the Restitution Agency that it is? Why would he ask for an assessment of the market value of the immovable property that is subject to restitution by the Agency? It is possible that I have not read carefully, I have not seen further in any member what is happening in that case and therefore I ask you whether those three days at the same time or these three days when, in the second position of Article 8, it sends a request for market value, when it happens?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33950	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33951	Here it is, one thing is to get what is the status of that immovableity at the Agency for Restitution, and with that status it will probably be given a position on whether it is the subject of physical restitution or the subject of value restitution. Here, due to the economy of time, a parallel request is sent to the IRS to move with an estimate, or to make an estimate of the value, but it's being sent here, there's no requirement here. Therefore, if it is obtained from the Agency for Restitution, that it is the subject of physical restitution, then the process of seeking value from the Tax Administration will be suspended.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33952	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic jointly submitted the 8th amendment. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33953	In Article 8(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The draft law states — within three days of the date of receipt of the request for the purchase of the subject-matter of the sale, the Directorate is obliged to send a tax or other competent authority a request for the determination of the market value of the subject-matter of the sale, which is required to submit a market value report, within five days of the date of receipt of this request. My colleagues, Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic, have proposed an amendment in which this position should be read like this – within three days of the date of receipt of the requirements laid down in Article 7(1) of this Act, the Directorate is obliged to send to the tax authority of the local self-government unit on whose territory is the subject of sale, the requirement to determine the market value of the sales subject matter. The tax authority is obliged to submit a market value report to the Directorate within five days of the date of receipt of this request. There are two reasons why my colleagues have submitted this amendment. The first is a unique procedure for the sale of assets scattered across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and it is best that the tax authority of the local self-government unit on whose territory is the property that is the subject of the sale is solely responsible for establishing its market value. The second reason is that it is not clear which the other authority could be responsible for establishing the market value of the sales subject matter in accordance with the provisions of this law. Since the Government in Article 6(1) has accepted the amendment from the SDPS parliamentary group, which deletes that there is another competent authority, it is completely illogical that our amendment is then not accepted and is allowed to stand in Article 8(2) of this provision – the second competent authority which fully provides for one ambiguity in this Article of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33954	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33955	So, we're going back to a proposal that assesses the value of immovableity, and I'm still staying in the process of doing it best and most professionally by construction experts on the list of authorised court-laws. So we have a situation, citizens are dissatisfied with how the Tax Administration estimates the value of certain immovableities. Simply, you cannot, based on the zone and based on previous contracts, carry out an adequate assessment of the value and it is necessary to get on the ground, record the situation, identify from which material a particular object is built, how old it is and give a fair estimate of the value of immovableity. I insist that court experts who are under oath are engaged in this business, because I think they'll do a better job than the IRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33956	Thank you, Mr. Senic. (Alexander Senic, from the post: The minister wanted to report. Mr. Senic, please. Mr. Minister, did you want a word? Here you go. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33957	On the previous two proposals. So, the previous proposal where the text is proposed to the tax authority, that change has already been made, but it has not been kept in the text. One change has already been made, meaning the words “tax or other” are deleted and remain only “the competent tax authority”, which is in fact the same thing as the local authority listed in your amendment. So we don't think it's necessary to change that any further. As for the court's skills, we have to stay consistent, we haven't accepted that from that member before. So we won't accept here either, but personally, it remains an obligation for the tax administration to do everything, and it exists in their context, to realistically assess the market value of the facilities. I'm more concerned about this deadline than what you said, because court experts don't give much more reliable grades than the tax administration. Tax administration depends on other factors, court experts on their own, but deadlines here are pretty short, and that part where, in fact, it would be good to extend the deadlines, but it's too late now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33958	The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted an amendment to Article 8. Mr. Minister, would you like to make a statement about this amendment? The word is made by Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33959	That's what I just mentioned. So it's accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33960	I find that the proposaler's representative accepted the amendment to Article 8, which was submitted by the Finance Committee. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33961	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to convince the minister to accept this amendment of mine. It refers to paragraph 2 where it is said, inter alia, that the Directorate is obliged to send a tax or other competent authority a request for the determination of market value, etc. The ‘and other competent authority’ provision is totally unclear, i.e. general. I, like my colleague Senic, insist that it be an expert in the construction profession on the list of authorised judicial experts. I, like my fellow MPs, am always trying to point out that the full text of the law is simply transparent, without clarity. It seems to me that the government, and you, too, do not respect your own acts. I will only refer to the Regulation on conditions of supply and alienation of immovable property by direct lease of things in public property and public tendering and collecting procedures, where public competition is awarded, and contracts, I mean direct contracts, are only accepted at the end when public competition fails. I ask you once again to consider this possibility to be evaluated by construction experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33962	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33963	Although this may help to end the discussion today, I fear it is too late to make such changes. We can do anything to make tax administration estimates as close to real market values as possible. I don't think only the introduction of authorized skills into this process will give you what you expect. My experience suggests that you're a good expert when you give judgments to someone who subsequently assesses it, such as the court. So it's just an entry, input information for some other process where the parties have the right and basis to dispute it. In this process, I'm afraid this is an administrative process, and here more accurate information, more responsible information will be given by the tax administration. It is up to us to ensure that the tax administration provides good estimates that are very close to real market values. That's all I can promise. I can promise that we will make sure that they provide quality information as part of their ongoing reforms. All of your fears are based on, perhaps, some previous information and experience or empathy or anything else, but what's the fact that exogenous solutions in themselves don't produce a better result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33964	The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 8th amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33965	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, the amendment to Article 8 that I have submitted is similar to the amendment set out in Article 7 and he says the Directorate will publish a notice on its official internet presentation from Article 3 of this article immediately following its removal. The notification shall be published within the framework of other publications for a specific subject matter of sale. You refused this with an explanation that the amendment was not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution was more celery. Mr. Minister, I'm quite certain that you wrote this law for a certain group of people who at a certain price will buy attractive properties, whether they're residential, business space, garages with a great desire not to see it, that no one knows it, that we don't know what the results are. It means that you go in favour of a small group of people, and to the detriment of the property of the Republic of Serbia, and all of our arguments that went to make the price fair, because it's your political decision to sell it, it's not controversial, but it's questionable as it is sold and for what money. That's controversial. Selling is your right. You run the state and you're responsible for the functioning of the state and it's your right to decide to sell it, but we say, no, don't sell it this way, the price isn't good, it's not transparent, you give it to a privileged group of people, don't do it. Keep insisting on it and I hope the citizens see and appreciate what you are doing as a congregational majority and as a government and that you will get their answer when the election day comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33966	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33967	Not to mention, the changes concern further implementation of the idea I'm talking about by two previous amendments. We really should introduce some principles and be consistent. The tenant who did not respect the rules to seek the consent of the owner of the investment apartment should not be granted the right to reduce the price due to investment investment and the recognition of these amounts of investment would lead to an unequal position. Someone was just maintaining it, and someone who had rights was embezzling marbles, gold handles and taps, and now they need to be reduced for all of it at a very low cost state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33968	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33969	My colleague Zlata Djeric, believes, and I agree with her, that the price represents one of the most important elements of each purchase contract and therefore we have submitted an amendment in this article, in Article 8(3) where we believe it is necessary to inform the tenant whether it meets the conditions laid down by this law and on the date of conclusion of the sales contract, we are changing words and we add "as well as the established price of the subject-matter of the sale contract". In Article 8(5), we propose after the words "recognition of the amount of investment investments" as follows: "as well as the date of conclusion of the sales contract" are replaced by the words and we propose that it be: "as well as the established price of the subject-matter and the date of conclusion of the sale contract". I don't think it's logical that the Directorate only informs the tenant that he has met all the conditions to buy the immovable property, but should also inform him of the price. Such a proposed solution is not mentioned anywhere, and this amendment suggests that the price of the case, established on the basis of the tax authority's report, should be stated in this notice, and irrespective of whether or not the tenant has submitted a request for recognition of investment investments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33970	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33971	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have proposed my amendment, which is the continuation of the previous amendment, which I have also submitted in order to recognise the current contracts and assessments that have been made, the diameter and the pre-accounts, when it comes to investment maintenance. Why are we now ousting completely judicial witches from any art? The court experts artificially artificiald the investments before they were executed and that diameter and pre-calculation, which was then artificial, was entered into the contracts, and now you are introducing the City Institute of Art that will artificialize the investments made. A little while ago, a colleague says -- these warlocks are under the influence of the former regime, the former government, so for God's sake, now it's going to be safer, and that city hall is a city institution, elected by the council, directly by the executive authority. Tax administration, also direct executive power, estimates market value. Why are you doing this? If there is no trust in the judicial branch of the government, to resign the VSS, to resign Minister Selakovic, let's see what happens here. If it's so much mistrust that the court experts can't do the art of investment, i.e. they don't recognize their art that already exists, so it has to be restored now, otherwise by the City Arts Institute, who took over the City Hall again a month ago and elected a new director, which is very symbolic, Mr. Minister, and very interesting, direct executive power locally chose a new leadership and now they're going to reassess something that's already been evaluated. Then it will be interesting to look at the lease agreements that existed, which had to contain the level of investment investments, the level of vomiting, so let's see how there would be a new assessment of that city's artisan, so let's see where there's a possibility for someone to increase their investment or to introduce an investment that he didn't make. It's something that I have a serious objection to, and for that reason I've submitted this amendment, which, I say, is the continuation of the previous one, which you refused and that was trying to get things back into the regular flows, because I already have contracts that treat investments, we have contracts that treat the relationship with the tenants, and now we've completely annulled all of this legal solution and it's quite clear that this is done for a particular circle of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33972	National MP Snezana Malovic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of new articles. 8a, 8b. and 8v. Does he want that word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33973	Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers, representatives of the finance ministry, distinguished colleagues on behalf of the SDS parliamentary group, the PGI, I have submitted amendments to the public tender procedure for the sale of immovable property held in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that accepting these amendments will improve this text proposal, given that it will have transparency and achieve better value sales. So, we believe that this amendment is in line with the laws to be regulated, otherwise the process of selling through public competition, such as the law on enforcement and security, which provides for completely precise transparent conditions and procedures, but is in line with the Regulation on the terms of procurement and alienation of immovableity by direct lease of things in public property and public competition procedures and the collection of written offers, more specifically, with Article 19 of this Regulation. This way, if this amendment is accepted, we will have a committee to carry out the public competition procedure and we will have a specified procedure and the way the ads will be published. We will also have a specified procedure and a way to accept offers, i.e. to reject offers, in the case of, for example, not timeliness or other shortcomings. Also, I want to point to Article 8b. This amendment, which, the text, says the Commission is leading the record. In today's debate, we had the opportunity to hear that there were certain gaps during the alienation of state property in the previous period. In this way, if this amendment is accepted, we will also have documentation regarding the way the commission has decided and some doubts if there are going to be ways to remove them. Also, I don't think it's an adequate explanation for why the amendment isn't accepted. It is uniformly and almost in all the amendments, which have been rejected, is identical, that the amendment is not accepted due to the consistency. I claim that if he accepts it he will be more comprehensive and will contribute to making this text of the bill as good as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33974	Thank you. I received a notice from RTS that they are unable to perform a direct transmission of 16 hours and 20 minutes more due to the previously agreed obligation to transfer the water polo match Serbia and Japan. Let me give you a heads-up. National MP Aleksandar Senic submitted an amendment with an amendment proposing the addition of new articles. 8a, 8b. and 8v.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33975	Thank you, Madam President. In continuity, we have proposed amendments to existing members of the law to introduce adequate procedures and competition, public bidding for selling the property of the RS when you have already decided to sell it, and this amendment only defines how we intended it to be public and transparent, and it is simply amazing for us that the minister in his work advocates the achievement of market value and transparency in the work that rejected such an amendment which clearly, precisely requires conditions to achieve the highest price for immovable property owned or owned by the RS, when you have already decided to sell this property and to fill the budget in an adequate way, that we have higher revenues, rather than to sell the property, as we have heard, on Didinj, here we bid, for 600, 700, 800 euros per square meter. So, I'd like to, Mr. Minister, that's not true, but by not accepting a public competition, we're questioning the market price that will be achieved, whether immovable property will be sold at an adequate price, i.e. at the price that's real. In this way we favour some people unknown to me and allow them to buy real estate below the market price and only 800, 900 or thousands, and we bring all RS citizens into an unequal position and they cannot apply for the purchase of that property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33976	Members of the 9th amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33977	Nice. Article 9 is the details of the signing of the sales contract and the miracles, and we now understand why this session was two hours late today, because it is now water polo and when the water polo has no transmission from the session. So it strengthens the suspicion that this is one law under the grain, and now we can say both below the water and not these Belgrade ones, but some other Russian ones. The deadlines that are here are also phenomenal. It's all two days, three days, seven days. There is no law that has such fast deadlines, which is another proof that this is about something dirty and that no water polo will be able to wash, that dirt, and finally, the crown proof that I'm wrong and that I'm making a conspiracy theory and that I'm wrong would be something that we have the right as MPs because this is about state property. It would be nice if Minister Vujovic, without interruption of work, within half an hour, of the competent services to give the MPs an insight into a list of tenants who will be privileged, 700 of them among seven million Serbian citizens, who will be able to be exclusive buyers of property covered by the law. Let's see if it's a former regime, this regime, criminals, asomakums, I don't know who, but it would be very interesting to see. Perhaps Mr Pavicevic is on the list, and perhaps Minister Vujovic is on the list. Maybe it's one of the other MPs, maybe it's someone across the street on the street right now. Let's see by what criteria someone's got that exclusive right that I can participate in this exclusive store.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33978	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33979	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Vujović, the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, not only are we now having a water polo transfer, but I have noticed one sleepiness, I hope that this is an appropriate term here, the MPs of the SNS, who no longer participate in the debate over these amendments, respected gentlemen, which I find inappropriate, because our debate today, Mrs Gojkovic, is about the great principles and we have explained Amendment Article 9 in the following way. We told Minister Vujovic, we told him when we wrote an amendment to Article 9 that this article was severely violated by the principle that all citizens have an equal legal position on the market. That's one thing, gentlemen. Secondly, we told Mr Vujovic that this limits free competition. We told Mr Vujovic that current real estate rentals are being placed in the privileged position, for example. around 700, and thus reminded Minister Vujovic and the MPs here that the principle of rule of law has been compromised. Instead of living debates, awareness, awakenings, not agreeing to it, we have one lull of SNS MPs, for example, and Minister Vujovic, respected gentlemen, tells us that his proposal is more comprehensive. So, the whole point, Minister Vujovic, is to violate the rule of law, according to your court, is that the principle that all citizens have, or that they do not have the same legal position on the market, is to the fullest extent that one group of people are privileged here, 700 of them, and it is not the point of what we are proposing, Mr Vujovic, which is basically respect for the rule of law. I'm asking for comment one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33980	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33981	I have to say, that's not in this article. This article states that it is more celery instead of "deleting" that the sale contract is concluded by the Director of the Directorate and by the person who applied. Secondly, it's more cellular for the State's Attorney's office to give an opinion on the position. Third, the Directorate is required to deliver a copy of the contract concluded to the State's Attorney's Office. That's more cellular, not what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33982	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33983	Replica, Madam President, twice mentioned SNS. I am taking this opportunity to bring Philip Filipovic, captain of Serbia's water polo team and the boys from the team to wish me luck in a duel with Japan, to achieve a result perhaps even better than they have achieved with Montenegro. I also want them to win and make us happy, like they've done so many times before. I'm sure the citizens of Serbia, instead of us here in this room, would much prefer to see our representatives in the pool and with a new victory. As for sleepiness or insomnia, last night we witnessed two drowsiness. One was the drowsiness, tightness in its beds, far from the National Assembly, although the National Assembly worked last night until late evening, because in the benches reserved for the MPs of the former regime there was only one MP left, and the rest were put to sleep at home, unlike the SNS who sat here very disciplined and spoke and spoke with Mr Verbic. Another sleepiness was in the O.R. because there was only one MP left who was put to sleep. It's only when I searched the Rules of Procedure and pointed out those empty benches, that's when he woke up. So when we talk about drowsiness, Serbian citizens were able to see sleepiness at home last night, as well as the drowsiness of a national MP here in the O.R. The Serbian Progressive Party, apart from the desire to win, which we want Serbia's water poloists in a duel with Japan, wants us to keep working, not to throw dust in the eyes and gloves when there is no other argument to defend the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33984	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33985	Thank you. This article should be deleted, because I don't know how it's possible to rephrase it well. That is why my support for the amendment, as well as the question of the Minister, since in three positions, Article 9 says - The contract on the sale of the case, in accordance with this law, is concluded on behalf of the Republic of Serbia by the Director of the Directorate or by a person in the Directorate who has authorised him, and according to the previous opinion of the State Attorney's Office. Except for the sales contract, I understand. The second position – The Attorney General shall be obliged to refer the opinion referred to in Article 1 to the Directorate within five days of the date of receipt of the request for an opinion. The third point – The Directorate shall deliver a copy of the contract concluded under Article 1 to the Attorney General within five days of the date of conclusion of the contract. So, it's the deadlines, and it's possible, again, my mistake, what is the State's Attorney's office's opinion, how can the State's Attorney's office prevent the signing of a contract? And what are these deadlines Monday, and the sale contract is concluded by the Director of the Directorate, and then he sends it to the State's Attorney's office to get an opinion, and then he gets an opinion, and then five days goes by, and then he sends the contract? It's not good in time, 1 o'clock. Secondly, it's not good because it's missing what's going on with the State's Attorney's office's opinion. Is the administrative dispute in motion? Does the State's Attorney's office find that they are not respected members of the law, does it establish guilt? What's the state's attorney's office doing and what time line? It's important to be without any doubt what happens to the conclusion of the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33986	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here, you have a short line, because you've already spoken according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33987	It's not a replica, it's just trying to see if it's the same...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33988	Not if you don't want a replica, but you have to answer it directly because she asked you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33989	Okay, in replica form. So, the text reads like this - concluded by the Director of the Agency or another authorised person, and in the opinion previously obtained. Then the next attitude explains: that opinion is obtained within five days. So, the D.A. has five days to give an opinion, and then it's signed, and when it's signed within five days, a copy to the D.A.'s office is delivered. That's what it says here. (Gordana Comić, from the place: It does not say. So read it. So this is how it is - director of the Directorate or person in the Directorate who he has authorised, and according to the previous opinion of the State Attorney's Office. So he can't sign the contract until he gets a previous opinion. That opinion must be given within five days. When you sign the contract, then the signed contract delivers to the D.A. back within five days. Well, that means it. Maybe it's a rhobarb writing, but that means it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33990	Thank you. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. Do you want a word? (Yes) Who wants to go first? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33991	I thank you, Madam President, even though I've given the classmate's championship, but here I will explain this amendment. So, Mr. Minister, please pay attention. Make sure the IRS does the job properly, as you claim, you're their boss, let's trust you. Let it be that there will be no abuse, which I personally cannot believe, but here you have said, so be it not. Then why don't you publish all the closed contracts, along with the state's attorney's office's opinion, on the official website of the Directorate? So why don't we publish the contracts, know who these aunts and aunts are, whose price they bought, if there's 700, maybe there's uncles and uncles, so maybe there's less aunts. I simply don't understand the explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is complete. Your solution is that it all happens in the dark and that it doesn't come out anywhere. So, no transmissions, now you're not going to post on the website what anybody bought, at which price and where and then everything's okay. It's celery. I ask you to consider the amendment. I really don't see a reason why the citizens of the Republic of Serbia don't know who it is and what price it buys the property of the Republic of Serbia, if you've already decided to sell it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33992	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33993	Thank you, Madam President. I'd just like to repeat some of the arguments that my colleague Senic made. I was sure you, Mr. Minister, would accept this amendment. I am simply amazed by the reasoning we received in the rejection of the amendments, read by my colleague Senic. If you wish to remove any suspicion that the properties that are the subject of this law will be sold, as the opposition claims, in an illegal manner, I ask you to accept this amendment and to remove any suspicion. What counterpart Senić says, then we will find out whether there were 700 properties or more or there were fewer, whether aunts, aunts, uncles and other relatives, from any party, those who were users of this area, or tenants, and it would be also good for the public to find out for what means the apartment, real estate, buildings, business space, say, in the attractive center of this city. Why are we hiding those who will come to real estate in this way and the sum that we, as a state, are going to include in this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33994	Thank you. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic, the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, here, in Article 10, to read only one part of the first position, to show Minister Vujovic, to try to convince him that his solution, his proposal, is not more comprehensive than what we have proposed by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I. Here, in point 1. says – If within 30 days of the date of confirmation of the sale contract, the tenant as the buyer does not pay the whole price... Now, this "buyer", Minister Vujovicu, is a key term for us. Why is “the buyer ” a key term? Because a customer can only be one person, one of the most 700 people who were formerly tenants. Minister Vujovic, I think this is a clear picture that by this bill, the moment it is adopted, we share Serbian citizens in group "A" and group "B". In the group "A" - a small group of citizens who have the right to something, who have a human right to something and a huge group of citizens who are excluded from the possibility of using those rights. Minister Vujovic, I remind you that such action is contrary to the content of Article 3. The Constitution of our Republic, where it is said that the rule of law rests on the possibility that every individual here uses human rights, not to divide our citizens into two sets, into a set of those who have and those who have no rights. In that sense, Minister Vujovicu, your proposal is not more comprehensive, unless you have come to the Assembly to advocate that the rule of law should not be the basic principle of our constitutional system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33996	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33997	Thank you, Madam President. By amendment to Article 10, we have proposed a alignment with the previous solutions provided for in the other articles. So, first of all, it is an extension of the circle of people who can be buyers, that it does not only apply to a few hundred people who will be in a privileged position, but that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia can bid and participate in the sale, i.e. in the purchase of real estate in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, when you have already decided to sell that property. Furthermore, we propose that attitude 2 be restructured because we believe there is no reason to distinguish between long-term and short-term tenants, only in favour of long-term tenants. We do this for the reason that, under the bill, it is offered or can be concluded that the tenant who paid upfront or the total lease or part of it has the right to account for all that amount of funds. We believe that only that lease he paid in advance can be included in the price, which has not arrived. So what he didn't take advantage of, a time period that he didn't use, as a leaser of certain immovableities. Since you have not accepted our previous amendments, it is illusory to expect you to accept this one as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33998	Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u33999	In this amendment, I proposed that Article 10(2) be amended in such a way that it reads: ‘The tenant who has previously paid the part or the total contracted lease shall have the right to request or refund overpayments or to be included in the nominal amount of the repurchase in the amount paid as part of the price paid for the subject-matter of the sale’ and that paragraph 3 be deleted. By amendment, we propose this transformation of attitude 2, for two reasons. First, there is no reason to distinguish between long-term and short-term tenants, so that the benefits will be determined only in favour of long-term tenants. There's no need to make a difference, for example. between the tenant who rented four years and who made the payment and the tenant who was five years in the lease. There's a small difference, and there's a big difference in the benefits they gain. Secondly, according to the bill's proposal, it could be concluded that the tenant who paid upfront or the total lease or some part, with the fact that it is not specified which part, has the right to account for all that amount of funds. We believe that only the rents he paid up front can be included in the price, which have not arrived, and this is not clearly seen from the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34000	Thank you. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. He's not here. ) The 10th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. He's not here. ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34001	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, distinguished guests and guests from the ministry, Mrs Gojkovic, of course I want a word. I would speak here several times on the basis of the right to a replica, but Mr. Becic, while he chaired, did not want to give the right to a replica and I remind you, Mrs. Gojkovic, of one of my initiatives to evenly schedule the time of the National Assembly's chair, and not to have Mr. Becic sit there and prevent the opposition's MPs from arguing their views. I have one more thing to say here. I'm particularly surprised, come on, this lullaby of SNS MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34002	Do you want to move on to this member, or should we move on?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34003	I will, the amendment to Article 11 concerns directly, Mrs Gojkovic, our argument as to why we submitted the amendment to Article 11 and directly...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34004	It has nothing to do with sleeping. It has nothing to do with matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34005	But directly with the rule of law. And it is, then, respected Mrs Gojkovic, and not the reaction of some MPs here from the ruling majority. How is it that a lawyer, a doctor of law, here is Mr. Martinovic, or one respected lawyer, Mr. Neđo Jovanovic, how is it that, I am asking the Honorable Presidents, that they do not respond to one debate, about a bill which is so drastically, respected gentlemen, obviously attaches to the highest principle on which our Constitution is based, defined by Article 3. We have reached the last member of this bill. This looks like it's gonna turn around here, and none of them are gonna...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34006	Ambassador, could you be nice, at least a little bit about the amendment, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34007	Well, that's it, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34008	It has nothing to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34009	The rule of law, so here's our explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34010	No, you said to delete the specific article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34011	It's being erased because we won't agree to an attack on the rule of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34012	A buyer who didn't apply for investment investment, at least something to give you a six, come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34013	But the minister tells us that it is celibate to violate the rule of law. Well, how can you do that, Honorable President?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34014	Here, it's past time. The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34015	Madam President, Mr. Minister, the distinguished ladies of the Ministry of Finance, this amendment is not acceptable to the SNS, because it would lay down a law under which the properties that serve nothing will receive materialisation. The material resources collected and thus charged will contribute to the recovery of our public finances and will end up in the Republic of Serbia's budget. But it will also prevent what happened, say, in DIPOS. He stops, and I expected that a colleague who was a member of the DIPOS Management Board would be involved in the debate, unfortunately I don't see him in the O.R., because I could ask him a question and answer the question, why, for two and a half years since he was a member of the Management Board, did not make a list of the immovableities that are owned or used by DIPOS. Why in two and a half years, and we've been honored why didn't we make a list of these contracts and list those contracts, why didn't he list 250 contracts and annex contracts he made for those two and a half years? With aunts, aunts, aunts, and who knows who else? I would also like to get an answer for which, for the two and a half years, the chairman of the Supervisory Board, or the Management Board, was Mr. Free Kopanja, and when you see, when the chairman of the Management Board has given him the Free Bath, you will see those on the Management Board. As a result of which the President of the Management Board was given the opportunity from 2006 to 2009, the Management Benefience, with the agreement of his colleagues in the former regime of the People's Committee member, Mr Kopanja had management benefits in terms of resolving the housing issue by assigning the apartment next to the existing one. There you are, gentlemen, who are so concerned about the property of the Republic of Serbia, where the apartments ended. You will be the chairman of the Management Board from 2006 to 2009, as was Mr. Kopanja. You have an apartment but you get another apartment by DIPOS and it's a manager's allowance, and for that kind of thing, he raised his hand and gave consent to a respected colleague from the former regime, you can see who it is by name and last name. That is not enough yet, so Mr. Kopanja as chairman of the Management Board was paid six months after the term of office of the chairman of the Management Board. Well, there's the gentlemen where our funds were poured out. Six months after his term of office, he was paid. What was he doing here for our citizens? What did he do for our country, and he got an apartment next to his existing one, so he's been getting paid for another six months? Well, what a brain that man has. What did he do for us? Do any of us know who Mr. Free Digger is? I know that a man here in this room, not in this room, is a MP, is not in the O.R., he knows, cooperated with him, gave him consent to it, assigned him an apartment, paid him six months after his term. So it was small, so six months after the term of office, he also got the use of the official car and the driver. Who pays for it rather than the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And those of you who knew it and kept silent and supported it now say, "Well, you say something in the dark?" In what darkness? In the darkness of a delayed transmission that was and who would be. And thank God our athletes are above politics and getting primate and that's not enough yet. I wish a colleague were there, we could debate both the contract and the way and the reason DIPOS at the time had assigned apartments, cars, wages, the arrogant spending of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for a million euros bought political actions. Bought some policy action. What does DIPOS have to do with Politics? Nothing except that the political order then gave the Hatisherif a million euros in DIPOS funds to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia buy political action. And, if those policy actions had grown after a month, two or five, or two years, I would say – well done, excellent. I'd give my colleague a hand sitting across from me and say that's a great thing, you've earned money. However, no, gentlemen, policy actions have collapsed in the coming months, and thus a million euros have turned into several tens of thousands of euros. Who answered? Did you raise your voice then? Were you then concerned about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and those who are these properties, which is the subject of this law, and those who are not. No, you didn't, because the hatisher's here. An order has arrived from the places you trusted. You can turn your head the other way, but the truth is what I told you. In the apartments that you shared with the presidents of your boards of directors, to get an apartment next to their apartment another of the DIPOS, including six months' salary after the deadline, or after the term of office. So both the driver and the official car and the fuel and gas and probably the cards, payment cards and everything that goes with such arrogant management and DEPOS as well as other businesses in Serbia. Well, that was a little bit. Two hundred fifty contracts and an annex contract made up. With who? On what terms? How? Well, that was a little bit. Well, you bought out policy action. What do you think tomorrow the Property Directorate buys shares I don't know of any company and that after a few months that stock goes to waste. Well, I think they'd hang us all here on the Terrace, and you did that, and it was just a springboard for that man who was a board member at the time that DIPOS was going to buy a million euros in policy action and that after a few months, they went down and nothing. Since one colleague throws, who, see who was in 2006 to 2009, but also from 2009 to 2012 was on the Management Board of DIPOS. Slobodan Kopanja, chairman of the Management Board, Nebojsa Negic, Budisava Borjan, Milija Martinovic and Borko Stefanovic. I would like to get answers, what market value has this board of directors and Mr. Stefanovic made to buy up the policy for a million euros, what does DIPOS have to do with "Politics", what value did Mr. Kopanja bring to his apartment, although he had his own apartment, which were the values that Mr. Kopanja had to pay him six months after his term ended, the official car, the driver, all the benefits that went with it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34016	Ambassador, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34017	Here I go. There are dear colleagues and colleagues of mine who unfortunately have left the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, although they are pouring crocodile tears, pour because you were not allowed to or did not want to, or could not raise your head and voice against such a policy and such leadership of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34018	Rules of Procedure, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34019	I would like to thank the President. I expected and was confident that you would point out to a fellow MP, Pavicevic, that his actions are the least opposed to the Rules of Procedure. I therefore point to the violation of Articles 27 and 106, bearing in mind that you have the right to, in accordance with what the Rules of Procedure gives you as authority, which is to conduct a debate at the session, to draw attention to Mr Pavicevic that it is illegal, direct address to other MPs, i.e. Me and my colleagues, Martinovic. In addition, you should have pointed out to Parliamentarian Pavicevic that he was obliged to keep the agenda points, which he often honours us as a business conscience in the Assembly, and in this situation he did not keep the agenda, nor did he speak of what he was supposed to say except about lamentation of the government, so that if the rule of law is the right justification for every amendment called "expect", in this direction we have the abuse of procedural powers, that is, the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. That is why I ask you, Madam President, that the future of such actions by the honourable MP Pavicevic, in any case, sanctions you, is the easiest way to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because I do not feel that there is a need for you to express it, I apologize, because he has not yet reached that level against the rule of law in relation to the Rules of Procedure, so since there is a tendency or possibility to continue doing so, I just want to draw attention to Mr Pavicic's future attention that at least he does not treat me and MP Martinovic as well, which means other people's MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34020	So I'll make a decision in writing if you agree. Shall we vote for the injury? No, I don't. I thank you. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34021	Mr. Minister, first of all, I'd like to ask you to stop making phone calls, because I'd like to say something very substantial and serious. So, as I have so far claimed, the meaning of investment investment means nothing, as well as the empirical experience, the peak of culmination, the participation in the participation of the solution solution solution, etc. Please also accept this amendment, as you have accepted the amendment to Article 8.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34022	Thank you. Consistent with previous suggestions, it's accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34023	Do you accept this amendment? Okay, yeah. The 11th amendment was submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34024	This is the last in a series of amendments that should have provided public competition in the sale of property in the property of the Republic of Serbia, not to be a privilege for individuals, that all citizens can participate equally in auctioning or auctioning, that they can also initiate the sale of property, that the assessment of property is not done by the tax administration, because we believe that the court experts are more qualified for the job and that the value of the property must be assessed by taking into account the materials of which a facility is built, as if taking into account the age of that facility, and not only that in the tax administration on the basis of the zone, the price for some object is determined. Also, what brought all the ministers' claims into the water to advocate affirming the principles of market value and transparency, by not agreeing to publish contracts on the website, even though you have adopted six amendments to the SDS today, the most appropriate name for this law is the property robbery law in the possession of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34025	Ambassador, we won't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34026	That's what I call it. I haven't used a single ugly word, because from all that's said, it's the only thing that can be concluded. We will use all possible instruments to access information of public importance and to find out who you have passed this law for, to know who these privileged ones are who will buy real estates at poor prices and why you have made it impossible for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to participate in a transparent procedure and to publicly compete for property in the property of the Republic of Serbia, when you have already decided to sell it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34027	National MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted in the same text of the amendment that they propose to add a new article 11a after Article 11. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34028	As a lawyer, I had to submit, this is a more formal-legal amendment and it is proposed that, as you said after Article 11, Article 11a, which reads - On the day of entry into force of this law, the Law on Special Conditions of Sale of Certain Immobilities in State Property, "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", No 54/99 and the Law on the Sale of Certain Immobilities in State Property, in order to settle the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of foreign savings of citizens and loans for economic development in the Republic of Serbia, "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No 25/2000, and the procedures under these laws are suspended. The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that the deadlines for the application of those laws have expired and there shall be no proceedings pending, and therefore there shall be no grounds for suspending the procedure as set out in the laws. If the deadlines had expired, it was known to us, we were not aware whether some unfinished proceedings might still be being dragged in, but we believe that by taking effect on this law that will be voted in any day, really a moment for these laws to be put out of force and to stop being valid, because there is no more purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34029	They submitted an amendment to Article 12 in the same text by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs Gojkovic, President of the National Assembly, Honored Minister Vujovic, Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, this is the last amendment, the 12 amendments that we People's MPs of the New Party tabled on this bill. We suggest that this law should not take effect on the eighth day of its publication. Our proposal is not even to let this law enter into force the next day since the day of publication, our proposal not to bring this law into force. Never, dear gentlemen and Mr. Nejo Jovanovic, ever, because this bill of law...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34031	Ambassador, don't talk to Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34032	All right. Thank you, Your Honor. I remind Minister Vujovic that our expectations were not that the government would deal with the preparation of the bill, which envisions selling certain immovableities in order to fill the budget in such a way, gentlemen. I am now using these two minutes to suggest to Minister Vujovic and distinguished guests, who are still here in our large hall of the National Assembly, to read a document, because we are here on behalf of certain political parties. In the New Party, we have a large number of programmes, Minister Vujovic, and this programme of economic reforms within which there are...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34033	MP, if you can explain why it's being deleted. Your program stays.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34034	I, on the basis of the program, prepared my performance today, Madam President. I expect all MPs to act here, not by heart, based on the programs of their parties. Economic growth, Mr Vujovicu, deals with the government, how to provide conditions for economic growth and responsible public spending. There is no such thing in this government proposal, and that is why we have proposed not to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34035	The word is from Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34036	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm reporting for an amendment that was submitted by a colleague who spoke before me. A well-known statement by colleagues is that words and ideas change the world, but its amendments with the text "expunge" will not change the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34037	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want to comment on his amendment? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to agenda two. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the committees responsible, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momo Colakovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinkovic, Vesna Besarović, Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović together submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Blažje Bradic submitted to the 8th amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34038	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, that is, Article 8 speaks of acts under Articles 3 and 4 i.e. The act of Article 3(4) of this Act – the Minister responsible for Finance Affairs will bring within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. The following position states - until the date of application of the act referred to in Article 1, the Regulation on terms and conditions and method of payment in cash, in legal persons dinars and natural persons carrying out the activity, unless contrary to this law, will apply. We add the following position – the obligation set out in Article 3(1) applies to political parties. You have rejected this proposal, although we have given notice that it is particularly precise. We ask the amendment to specify in particular that the obligation to deposit cash on the account of the legal person has to be executed within seven working days and also applies to political parties. The Law on the financing of political activities, Article 8(4), provides that the authorised party's face is to make payments to the current party's current account, within seven days, from the date of payment, or from the date of issue of the receipt. Unless this issue is resolved, Mr. Minister, it is possible to present in practice a problem in the application of the law and interpretation of norms. Whether political parties are subject to a period of seven days under the Law on the financing of political activities or seven working days under the Law on the Making of Payments of Legal Persons. I think our amendment is meaningful and that you should accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34039	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34040	I just want to say that I respect the Law on the financing of political activities published in "The Official Messenger" No. 43/11 and 123/14. It's already been regulated and we don't repeat it in this law, so I wouldn't even go into the details of how it's regulated, because this law doesn't deal with it and that's why we didn't talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34041	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as amendments to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. You have received a report from the committees responsible and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I'm opening a review of the bill in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34042	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, honoring Minister Vujovic, a respected guest from the Ministry, I would like to inform the MPs of our National Assembly in this session that we MPs of the New Party have tabled an amendment to Article 1, but also amendments to each of these amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in the same text. The text reads, gentlemen, and here is Mrs. Vlahovic, to hear, to be deleted. Dear Mrs Gojkovic, the words "wipe" are also words and those words can represent some ideas that change the world, gentlemen. I have two evidences for that, Mrs. Gojkovic. One is that we, the People's MPs of the New Party, have so far proposed these amendments and that in one case the Governor of the National Bank has accepted two amendments – it is deleted, which has changed something in some draft law, gentlemen. That means, I'm saying this specifically now to hear Mrs. Vlahovic's folk letter, that the ideas that are in place...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34043	Ambassador, there's no talking to anyone, to me and to the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34044	I say she hears Mrs. Vlahovic. I did not speak directly to Mrs Vlahovic, only to Mr Neđa Jovanovic directly. The other thing, respected National Assembly presidents, I must say here, when it comes to the word "explication", so yesterday, President Gojkovic had a debate on the amendments of one bill, which the government has sent to change, the amendment reads "expect" one member's position and all MPs of the ruling majority here will vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34045	Now let's talk about the Public Procurement Act. This is all fine, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34046	All right, I'll do that in the next amendment to Article 2. The bill, because I'm two minutes out, only if I don't have five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34047	You don't. It's a joint discussion. You don't know the Rules of Procedure. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34048	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 where I wanted to amend two positions in this article of the two laws. I wanted to reconcile the terms, because a literal English translation was done where instead of "trade action", a company's "trade character" is listed. This does not exist in existing legislation. There's a commercial activity, and there's no commercial character of any company. I didn't find it anywhere in the positive legal regulations, and for that reason I suggested a different definition of this attitude. The second change refers to those, I think it's a little more important, why did the government avoid this proposal to define together with the Public Procurement Department a complete list of bidders? So why does the Government not want, or is it being built upon, that the list of bidders placed on the Public Procurement Authority site is fully defined precisely, that, without a dilemma, every director and anyone who is in the executive position of the contracting authorities knows that this client is someone who has to comply with the Public Procurement Act to conduct public procurement and that this law applies to him? Why could it have been in the previous bill, and it shouldn't be in this one? Why are we enabling, or bringing into a dilemma, those who run public enterprises and institutions? Does this bill apply to them or not? I suggested that the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance Affairs and the Public Procurement Administration, lays down a list of first and second-guest contracting entities, because I don't see why it did so in the previous law, and why this poses a disturbance to the existing ones. I think it's even a good thing, to unequivocally determine which legal persons are obliged to enforce the law, or to make purchases under this bill. I don't see why this proposal was rejected and why this proposal cannot be accepted. As regards trade character and industrial character, it is in the European Commission Directive 24/2014 but in our legislation there is no and should be adapted to our legislation where it clearly states that there is trade or production activity, or industrial activity. It's something that needs to be fixed. This other thing, I think, Mr. Minister, is far more acceptable for the government to establish a specific list of legal entities that are obliged to implement the Public Procurement Act. It is really unclear why the Government is being built on by the person referred to in Article 2. I don't think there's supposed to be a dilemma and a full list of public procurement contractors has to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34049	MPs Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34050	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Minister Vujovic and, of course, the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, we the People's MPs of the New Party have submitted the amendment, the text is deleted and deleted in Article 2. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement and on the occasion, honored guests, above all, but also ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I would like to announce two things. One thing is -- we have one big reason why we have, I mean a few of them, but one great reason why we have submitted as many amendments as there are members of this bill. Namely, the bill arrived at the July 25th Assembly. The bill consists of 92 members who are changing the existing Public Procurement Act. In addition to these 92 members who are changing the Law on Public Procurement, with a call for the agenda of this session as a united debate, eight other draft laws have been added, which means that MPs are not only opposition MPs here, but I believe most of the MPs who are in political parties, who make up most of them have not had time, I am sure, sufficiently, to seriously analyse each of these texts. We then wondered how it was possible for the government to send so many draft laws over such a short period of time that it was adopted and our assumption was that the government wanted to pass the most serious possible debates to adopt some of the bill's proposals. In this way, the government is trying to humiliate the legislative body and we are amendments – we have been eradicating such inappropriate practice, respected Members of the People's Parliament, and we will always react.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34051	MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, Janko Veselinovic and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic were sent. The word is Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34052	I've applied for the previous amendment. I didn't have time to press the key. You read the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34053	We're through. I'm sorry. Don't just yell. He got the word Zoran Zivkovic after the amendment we came to our turn. I don't have the privilege of being in the hall or at the MP's club so I can make one point. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34054	None of the obstructions you're applying will prevent our fair fight to preserve the rule of market economy law and the minimum dignity of this institution. Whoever comes to you with an emergency procedure, you change him. It also says in the Bible, perhaps not this real one, but in the Bible, Parliamentarianism certainly writes and I think it's a disgrace, and in the Koran, if it should be in the Koran...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34055	Ambassador, would you like to talk about the amendment, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34056	I can do whatever you want, but I can do it some other time, but not today, not on this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34057	Now you've lost your chance to speak, and I won't punish you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Why? Because you don't want to talk about the amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: You interrupt me. ) No, but I am applying the Rules of Procedure, it must only be said of the agenda. In accordance with Article 3 of the amendment... Don't worry, there are thousands of amendments, so no obstructions. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: That's right. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by Branko Karavidić and Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34058	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, this is a language editorial, the essential language of Article 3, where we ask that Article 6 of Sections 1 and 2 of the word is objectively deleted in point 1 and 2 of point 1. We believe that the subject matter of public procurement cannot, we are talking about shared public procurement, be subjective or objectively divisible. It is divisible or indivisible and we ask that the word - objectively be deleted because there is no possibility of subjective erasure, and we ask you ministers to still consider that this law would be linguistically correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34059	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinovic and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34060	I'll continue where I left off, there's no reason for you to interrupt me since I'm talking about the amendment. I always talk about amendments, and of course I have to explain why we are giving the amendment which is essentially intended to lead us to the fact that the law is not adopted, that is, before we can possibly convince the Proposer to withdraw this law, and it is very important that these reasons which have forced us to such an unpopular one, but unfortunately the only possible measure which is the answer to the fact that the laws that are systemic, which should be made available to MPs for less than 48 hours from the day when it is necessary to decide whether to submit the amendment, for less than 48 hours from the time when we need to enter a serious debate on this. Here in Article 4, we have made a whole new solution to the Public Procurement Act, which, in the 2013 explanation, you represent in an explanation as phenomenal progress compared to the previous one, as a law that miraculously changed the issue of public procurement, a law that solved all the problems in that area, a law that is a miracle one unseen, but yet there is a new law overnight. You can't fight the triggers of professional public procurement. This is solved by making public procurements first, tenders being debated in a way that is legal, which is meaningful, and then you can't bring it down. These professionals are being shot down under quotes. They only take out public procurements where they're badly planted, where they're badly written, where conditions are created to bring them down.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34061	Thank you. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted an amendment to Article 4. Minister, please state whether you accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34062	In line with the position adopted today at the Government, we accept an amendment which is said to be made by the grant act if the procurement is financed from the grant funds. So you add point 2 that's what it says.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34063	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Jovanovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34064	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers and honored guests, what was the basic objection of DS was and when the debate was in principle that the value of small purchases was raised from three to five million and in this respect we have submitted several amendments that will regulate this area. So this is obviously about the first SNS law of 2012. This is a child, as you said yourself, SNS. We think that changing more than 50% of the members of the law is the paternality you're trying to carry out this way. The original drama of fighting organised crime and corruption when it comes to public procurement and so on. The theft of a billion euros obviously doesn't stand, because you're trying to loosen up yourself, under allegations, this law, and to allow some purchases to be made faster. Does this mean that you decided as the ruling structure to steal, how you accused us in 2012, or since that theft was nothing, and that theft was just another one in a series of lies we've heard in the last three and a half years? So, the amendment when it comes to raising from three to five million dinars is something that DS cannot support, and with that, we believe that it is not a principled SNS position, because the first law that it passed in 2012 without even a single argument now changes to more than 50%, and you said that it is a law that will forever solve the fight against organised crime and corruption. I want to hear really what this case is about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34065	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34066	The amendment is not accepted, especially that part about legal services, which would be contrary to the directive and would restrict the work of both the state and the Public Debt Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34067	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34068	It's hard to get rid of this amount from three million to five if it didn't give the expected results. It has nothing to do with corruption. The problem between the law that was with you during your power and this law is that there is nothing secret here. The whole procurement process, whether it's small or large, is completely accessible to everyone. As a result, we have the fact that the number of public workers and service providers in the area of very small procurement has increased. Do you know why? Because under the old law, many did not even know that public procurement was being carried out. Public purchases of small values were based on the fact that the head of a particular body collected three offers, all three were ordered to it, and that the three offers were based on the selection of public works contractors. Public procurement, even small values, is now being published on the portal of the Public Procurement Administration. Absolutely anyone at any moment can make their offer, not as limited as it was during the DS government. That is why we now have the situation that only 5% of public procurement goes into the negotiation process, and the negotiation process and the process of low-value public procurement during the previous law was exactly the source of corruption. I would very much like the MPs who talk about corruption to say even one piece of information that defends the old law that has been amended since 2012. Give me at least one piece of information. We present to you the facts, and you only speak out loud: corruption, corruption, corruption. Some may not like that the process of public procurement is available to everyone, but what to do, everyone has the right to participate in the public life of the Republic of Serbia, to participate in the procurement process, to make their offer and, if the offer is most favourable, to perform public works. No more privatisation of municipalities, no more privatisation of state authorities, when only close relatives of senior DS officials knew about the public procurement of small values and participated in them. I can do this one, but it's going to have a much sharper competition.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34069	Thank you. By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34070	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. So the essence of this amendment, as well as some earlier, is to try to keep the principle of small purchases to small purchases of small value. Your raise amounts to a certain extent shows two things. First, that you were wrong when you proposed and passed this law, and you swore to its efficiency and to stop corruption. Another thing that is imposed as a conclusion is that you want some things to exempt from the procurement process and transfer them to the domain of the direct contract and thus enable corruption. How nice this claim sounds when you say it this way. Now I have to tell you -- prove to me that's not the case. You can't prove it to me. Purchases in culture and the organisation of progressive concerts will now be much easier. You'll be able to make concerts for Acu Lucas where you get there.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34071	Ambassador, we've had a really good debate so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34072	Except in one piece. And we will be able, for example, now to get for the JKP "White Source" to sell graves multiple times, as Mr Babic did, it will be able to do without procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34073	Ambassador, I won't let the session now that you've come to turn...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34074	And why haven't you reacted before?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34075	What was that before?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34076	Well, you didn't react.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34077	Whose discussion?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34078	You know very well whose.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34079	I don't really know.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34080	So, basically, to go back to the topic, what you're doing and what we're trying to correct with this amendment is to put the thing back to what it was, because it doesn't make any sense to move the principle of public procurement, to a certain value to keep the scale up, up and up. Then there's a little supply coming up. Given that inflation has no scope to justify such a thing, I believe there is absolutely no excuse, except that there is a suspicion that you want to do what you normally do every day in Serbia. Now I just want to ask you, if what I said isn't true, if that's not the proposalant's motive, I'd like to hear who it is? (Alexander Markovic, from the place: Management Board. I would answer if I were right, but they won't give me a president. So, I'd like someone to answer my motive, then? It is possible that my argument does not stand, but may the motionary stand up now and say why the border of small procurement rise without hearing any argument that would justify it? Especially when we still have your arguments in our ears when we pass this law, my dear colleague, when you told us and convinced us that it was the best in the world, that it would save 600m euros for this country. That didn't happen, and we talked about it more than once. Why? It's a very simple question. I'm not accusing anyone, I'm just asking what the criterion is, what is the motive and why is it done and why is it for this amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34081	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34082	Well, I don't know what else to say, really. Can I explain to the man that when the law was written, we had such an estimate. That very provision has produced very good results and we think it should increase. The difference between the 2012 Public Procurement Act is that public procurement was a secret and a very source of corruption. Now it's being published, I repeat again, I don't know what else to say, on the portal of any person who wishes and meets the conditions can participate in the process of public procurement of small value. It's such a procedure. He gave the expected results, and better than we expected, and that's why we're increasing the amount, to simplify this process and make it more accessible and even more available to the number of bidders, because with a large number of bidders you have more quality offers, at least when it comes to the price. When it comes to cultural services, so here when the law was passed, we were literally attacked for why it was introduced. And you know what the difference is? There is no significant difference between the law that was in force by 2012 and this law, even in such a changed form as the proposed one, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The only newspaper is that no one will be able to hire anyone without knowing what amount they're engaged in...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34083	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34084	I didn't ask for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34085	Then you have to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34086	Well, I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34087	Then proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34088	I'm talking about the amendment right now. Now, everyone here can blackmail anyone, but it seems to me that the biggest problem is that the fabulous sums of money were given to certain artists who were not proportionate to their artistic skills, and that was to hide the amendments submitted by the Democratic Party in 2012 on the proposal for a law on public procurement. Don't replace the thesis. We have said many times - your merits we acknowledge to you, your moves that are bad, which have led the state to one of these conditions in every area of public life, even in public procurement, do not attribute it to us. We don't want your merits in that regard either. We have enough credit, the election results are also talking about it, and we have no problem fearing both local elections and rural elections and republican elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34089	Mr. Arsic, return to the amendment only.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34090	I'm going back to the amendment. Those who talk the most about the citizens' trust check, and from the opposition, they beg God that the elections don't come.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34091	Thank you. Mr. Granny, do you want a word? (Zoran Babic, from the post: By amendment. After the amendment? You don't use the right to replicate? I mean, since you mentioned a name and a last name, you were entitled to a replica. Please, MP Zoran Babic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34092	It is almost two minutes, Mr. Becic, of the right to replication all things, and these novels, data novels, and evidence of the murky and cloudy actions until 2012 directed by the Democratic Party. We have raised the level and amount for the value of small purchases, so that the situation never happens again that the company "DG companies" d.o.o. from Subotica, whose owners, imagine, father and brother, whose father is the owner, and former Environment and Mining Minister Oliver Dulic's brother, received a job in August 2010, worth 47 million dinars. Fifteen months have been trying to obtain data that it is "DG companies", a company owned by a former minister's father and brother, but the public utility "Purity and Greenness" from Subotica, in violation of the law, refuses to supply the requested information. Mostly tender documentation and contract was signed with the company "DG companies", 47 million in the Democratic Party's cash register. Security and Information Agency, I am saying that this amendment should never be accepted, that it never happens again, bought furniture in December 2011 to equip its premises from NITEA d.o.o. Belgrade. Although the total value of the purchased furniture is 7.232.301 dinar, BIA did not issue a public invitation prescribed by the Public Procurement Act, justifying it as a confidential procurement. Trustful procurement – chairs, tables, mobile, chairs - for the Security and Information Agency. To make the problem bigger, co-owner and director of the NITEA company, which in such a voluntary way got a job with the Security-Informative Agency, is a certain Mrs. Vesna Jecmenica, then, now I don't know, the fiancée of the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister at the time of Mr. Bozidar Djelic. You know, these are the public procurements directed by the Democratic Party. That's how public procurement is consumed. In addition to the Security and Information Agency, from 2007 to 2011, the company of NITEA from Belgrade, owned by Mrs. Jecmenica, the vice-president of the government of then Mr. Bozidar Djelic, equipped with office furniture for several state bodies, agencies, institutions. She made over 40 million dinars at that job. Only in 2010 and 2011, NITEA, since co-operation with state authorities, has earned just over 33 million dinars. The furniture company was bought by the Serbia-Montenegro Flight Control Agency, the Medicines Agency, the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Administration, the PIO Fund, the Sava Venac Municipality, the Accreditation Body, the Belgrade Youth Home, the Theatre Starship, the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, probably the Dipos, with all those six-income boards after the resolution. The jobs of Djelic's fiancée, a tender made according to measure, so only the chairs of a certain weight were ordered, a minority that next to the open tender stood a picture of the company's owner who had to get the job. Furthermore, under the Law on Public Procurement directed by the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party's headquarters was renovated on Vrakar, which cost citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens eight million dinars. A good deal of that money was won by the company Mobiljare, who owns the local board of the Democratic Party at Vračar, Mr Dragan Maravic. Although others participated, although other companies participated, with significantly more favourable and better offers, but directed by the Democratic Party, directed by such Public Procurement Act, only "Mobiljare" Dragan Maravić, a senior official of the Democratic Party, was able to get the job, and the most interesting job was that in October 2010, only for the replacement of glass, and I did not see so many tens and hundreds of square meters of glass replaced at the Democratic Party's headquarters, amounting to 80,393 dinars. Mr. Chairman, probably we would have to schedule a special session so we could extend the time of the debate to talk about all irregularities, when at least small purchases, or purchases of small values, are directed by the DS of the former regime, and by the old Public Procurement Act. We are ready and Mr. Arsic, and I, and the MPs of the SNS to talk about it. True, it would have been a lot easier for us if DIPOS hadn't burned down a million euros through the actions of unnecessarily purchased policy actions, but it's also a burden on the board of directors where some people sat down and there's evidence for that, I'm not talking about something that there's no evidence of, why there are no files that are part of some investigative and investigative activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34093	I thank you, Mr. Granny. I think these arguments are enough to not accept this amendment and you've explained that enough. The word has a National Ambassador Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34094	Thank you. The amount. I also asked at the session of the Committee on European Integration for an assessment of what it was, what parameters to change the amount of small purchases, in order to change at all the amounts that are the subject of this member in the search. And I didn't get an answer, so I said I'd do it again in the course of the search in particular, so you could explain to me who calculated it, so now you can figure out new numbers. For all other types of appointments of slanderous sessions, I'm also available, and for all other types of planting topics that have nothing to do with the amount, but it would be good to hear about what...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34095	Mrs. Comic, I apologize, but DS time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34096	D.S. Group time's up, DS time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34097	The time of the parliamentary group, I apologize. Mr. Stefanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34098	Based on the replica. I don't know if our colleague praises us or where he goes. If he praises us, thank you,
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34099	I apologize to Mr. Stefanovic, just to give an explanation to the MPs. You got right to the replica, because it's mentioned several times DS. You are still the head of the parliamentary group, head of the DS parliamentary group, but the problem is that at the same time he asked for a word, Mr Jovanovic, who is an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34100	That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34101	I'm sorry. Then my mistake, I had the wrong information, I'll give you your time. In fact, I'll count your time. Go on, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34102	Thank you. It is not correct that you are making comments about my status in the parliamentary group, as if I were to say-- you are still vice president of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34103	I'm sorry if that's how you understood it, but I had to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34104	How else can that be understood?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34105	If that's how you interpret...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34106	Explain to me how it can be understood that you are still the head of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34107	I've given an explanation to the MPs that you're still the head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34108	And what does it mean? You're still the head of the parliamentary group? Are you still the vice president?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34109	Okay, you're the head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34110	Can you apologize, let the MPs hear what you've said?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34111	What would you apologize for?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34112	Because you insulted me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34113	I insulted you for saying that you were still the head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34114	Still. Are you still the vice president of the assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34115	I'm still the vice president of the assembly. I'm not offended by what you said. I think I'm still the vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34116	All right. Thank you. So please give me my time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34117	You have some problems I can't help you with. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34118	My problems are solved, and yours, I don't know if I can. What's certain is that for Mr. Kopanju you should ask the SPS. As for the question of buying actions, you have to ask the government who made the decision, not the board of directors. As for the use of the privilege of law and company statutes, you must also ask the law which was then valid, past the decision of the board of directors. And as far as the assets are concerned, it is the only place in this country that has been listed from the beginning to the end and served as diplomatic consular offices, which means that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by law and statute, had to have a representative on the board of directors of the same company, as it must today, and check that out. I asked why you're raising the amount of small purchases for a direct contract and that's how you're setting it up, and not how and how and where it's being advertised. I think it's okay to advertise on the website, and we don't have a colleague here. I asked why you're doing this, what your motives are, and I didn't get an answer to that. Because there is a reasonable doubt that such a thing serves so that things could be easier than the public's eyes for whoever wants to get the money in connection with the executive authority, which happens, unfortunately every day in Serbia, in every public enterprise you run. What is certain is that the DG companies and other companies, including the purchase of furniture that is being conducted today in that same BIA, the same in hidden procedure, are only some other companies now concerned with your colors, are the things you must or must stop defaming us and slandering us, because that's when you slander the police minister who, by not responding to your callings, is an accomplice to those people in the conduct of the crime. Well, if you have something to take to Sky Doctor Stefanovic, then have a nice man start some measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34119	Mr. Stefanovic, I beg you, we need to get back on the subject and talk about the amendments. I'm talking to you and all the MPs. Thank you. I can see that you don't understand, until the moment you got involved in the debate, that this is still going in some kind of justice that isn't right. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34120	Obviously we don't understand each other, it seems like we don't speak the same language. But here's the thing, according to the old law that D.S. passed, there were no restrictions. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's what even the amendments asked for when there was a debate of the law here in particular, for those provisions to come back again. Now, there's one more thing about the Public Procurement Act that stands, which is that the contract annex can increase the value of works due to disturbances to 5%. During the old law that many here defend from former regime members can increase by an annex to 25%, but there is no limit that can be annexed more than 25%. Wasn't that the source of corruption? Why didn't you ask me to delete it from the law? Wasn't that 25% a direct contract for public works and public works contractors? Wasn't that exactly the kind of corruption in public procurement? To reject an offer that only costs 1%, one that's cheaper by 1%, and then builds up to 50%? You can't defend that and why you're hiding it. It was your law, designed to be in the office, so no one knows how much it would cost outside the Public Procurement Act. El should say, that there's that first 25%, that at least 1% went to the director of the company that the public workers ordered. What's so quiet now? Yeah, there was, there was a part that went to him. Now, that was corruption, not this when you see it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34121	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Just tell me the basics. (Zoran Babiæ, from the scene: If you don't think I don't need a replica, then fine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34122	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, the naked policy of the former regime is like that, for nothing we're not responsible for, just someone else's responsibility. The money's gone, someone else's responsible. Crime blossoms, someone else is responsible. If it is for Mr. Kopanj, and it is very rude for the Vice-President of the National Assembly to be one of the most experienced among us to treat both the Kabadahian and Mr. Arsic and my presentation, he throws it, and if I try to be very careful and respectful and he does not get it from you, Mr. Chairman, at least not a warning, at least a reminder of one polite and normal behavior. On the other hand, I don't know why someone so smooth and nice would sit with that digging that wasn't his, but someone else's, someone else's, who had previously received 24 severances from the same "Dipos" and was also on the board of directors and led by a board of directors and even beyond when he was cleared for another six months of receiving money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would stand up and say I would not sit in that same body with a man like that. Why say, the government is responsible for the millions of damages in the Republic of Serbia's budget, because the government of Mirko Cvetkovic has decided to buy "Politicals" for a million euros, and to do "Dipos" and to have someone sits smooth and nice on the board and supports the government, thus supporting such decisions. It's not enough to just say, so it's the government's decision. What is this someone sitting on the board of directors of the Diposa...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34123	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34124	... radio, did he raise his voice and raise his head and say I disagree, and I won't allow that kind of thing. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34125	Thank you, Mr. Babic. Mr. Stefanovic, just the basis of your application. Please, just tell me if, in Mr. Babic's speech, where were you mentioned? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Mr Arsic mentioned the Democratic Party) Mr Arsic, the Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34126	Thanks, I was just trying to get information, so we could all hear the reasons for moving public procurement beyond a certain amount of motivation. That's what this is about. You are persistently selective in the criticism of the previous, previous, previous law. I'm asking you about these changes. What's the motive? Why are you doing this? What's the explanation for that? I'm not asking you anything else. Indeed, I have no dispute with you, I just want to hear why some amount must be moved up, higher sums, to exclude itself from the procurement process and to go to a direct contract. Why? Who needs that? Who's in the interest of who, and what's it for? The question is, everything else about the public proceedings, about publishing on the website, are things that help prevent corruption, but unfortunately they can't root out. Well, that's something to say goodbye anyway. Just don't mention the coalition partners of yours who were still in that government of the DS. It's a manners, because you have nothing to talk about right now, because the results, unfortunately, of the citizens, are gone now. What you're doing is very difficult to explain, with all your efforts to move things to other topics. In that sense, when someone comes to me with estimates of what I said and who I told, it will remain an eternal secret to you, because I don't think you have an ear for that frequency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34127	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. Mrs. Comic, replica. Here you go. You're right, you're mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34128	I thank and regret that we have a replica exchange, because I believe that the law that is under investigation is important, and that it is important that we talk about a subject rather than people. But it's also important not to let someone, because they think they can, call people language insult whenever they think of it and however they want it, slandering the form of behavior that I have in the National Assembly. If and when, in any way, I am past the rules of the Rules of Procedure, I am sure that the chairman will see that and remind me that I have to rule properly. Like, as I would ask the chairman to remind all the MPs that the DS here does not serve to beat on it as to whom it comes to mind, to slander and lie and to provide data on people, and to question, and not to arrest all those people, as long as they pass through the mud, it is said that, as the head of the DS parliamentary group, the task of the prosecution, the police minister. You can drag a DS member through the mud as much as you want, it won't help improve the resolution of this law, nor will it help public procurement in Serbia, really get in line. A man's style, if he has the will to invent and lie about how I behave, so what can I do? That's what Grandma learns or doesn't learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34129	Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. Mr. Granny, you didn't mention... .. (Zoran Babić, from the place: I didn't mention Gordana Komic either. ) Yes, you mentioned the name and last name Mrs. Komic. I assure you, Mr. Babic, you may have overlooked this in the heat of the discussion, but you mentioned Mrs. Comic's name and name. I can give you the word by amendment and by the Rules of Procedure, it is not a problem and I assure you, and I will show you this with a copy of the steno-marks, you mentioned the name and last name of Mrs. Comić. Here you are, Mr. Granny, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34130	Article 107(1) I know very well who I'm talking to and what I'm talking about. I didn't mention the name and name of Mrs. Comic, but I mentioned the Kabadian behaviour of the vice president of the National Assembly, and I didn't mention the name or name. If we see that the kabadiah of the helper is a breath and the first act under the breath, an act that once was and ruled in these places, I see nothing offensive, nothing demeaning. The fact that we all know how the breaths and the kabadiahs behave, that's something else. But what's a fake and what's a fact, which is that we're often bombed here by various throws, and even now with these fine chats, with a colleague, in front of him, which he may also have a right to, but it's not nice behavior for the National Assembly, it can't possibly be Mr. Chairman to present himself as a lie, because there are videos, audio recordings, and besides, there are dozens and hundreds of witnesses in this hall who are conscious and who have eyes and ears that such behaviour, and so conduct in the National Assembly and confirmation. I don't want to vote on this, but I don't even want to get pucks from someone who doesn't deserve to pack and give by his behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34131	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I owe you an apology, because when you quoted the words you said, then I realized that I was wrong and that, when you said Vice President of Parliament, I was immediately on behalf of Mrs. Comic, and you just said what you said, but whatever I estimated to have the right to reply, and I apologize for trying to correct you, and I was wrong. The word has a folk MP, according to the Rules of Procedure Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34132	Thank you, Article 107. I wouldn't answer, believe me, but once again, a noun has been used that can in no way be in favor of the dignity of the National Assembly and I think it's drastically disrupted by bringing together any political group, party, or anyone in connection with the breaths that people in our history and national history are known as oppressors, murderers and everything else. I think you could still do that shade and react with more patience than you can, in this situation, so things don't go too far. I don't think you've done that, which I believe is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and is not good at the heat of political struggle, putting political opponents in the Corps, traditionally proven enemies of this people, what breaths they were anyway. I hope you agree with me, because then someone might say, such an adjective to use, say, and for someone in the current regime, which I'm sure you wouldn't allow.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34133	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. You are absolutely right and I will always protect the integrity of every MP, and I will not allow anyone in any way to speak offensively to him. I may have overlooked it the way you said it and I apologize and once again I pray to all of you, we have had a very good debate until half an hour ago and I ask that we all return together to a debate which is of interest to the citizens of Serbia, and I believe that this law and these amendments, to the law on public procurement, are very important to the citizens of Serbia and to the economy of Serbia, and I ask that we all contribute together and return to the agenda. The People's Messenger Goran Kovacevic has the word, according to the amendment, and for you this request applies, as for the others. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34134	A key question, and what is the difference between public procurement and small public procurement? If the amendment promoters knew to answer me and show me the Public Procurement Act where these differences are located, then I would understand that it is important why we raise the amount of purchases. That might have been important sometime. Under the proposal of this law, in Article 39, the only difference that existed between public procurement and small procurement was because you had no obligation to publish it on the procurement portal and on the company's internal portal. At this point, Article 39 clearly states and practically erases the total difference between public procurement and small purchases. They could be two million, three million, five million. All the procedures that are for large purchases are the same as for small purchases, except some deadlines are shorter. I would like you to find in the law concrete evidence of the difference between small and large public procurements and everything will be clearer. You may be talking about another instrument, where the Public Procurement Act is not applied, but if you're talking about it, then you should talk about it precisely, not small public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34135	The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34136	Just one question is this about the amendment to Article 4 submitted by the MPs Markovic Jovan, Balsa Bozovic? That's right. Now I would just like to ask my colleagues from the Democratic Party, to name and last name my colleague Borko Stefanovic, to read to me in the bill concerning this amendment, where there are increases in relation to the existing law. Article 4 of the amendment and additions, relating to Article 7 of the basic law, regulates exemptions from the application of the Public Procurement Act. I agree that the amendment's proposings have sought lower values than are foreseen by the amendment and the amendment of the law, but nothing is increasing compared to the existing law. Read it to me in law. Maybe we're not reading the same law. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: We read. We read the same law. Great. The difference between changes, additions and the basic law is that amendments and additions to the law impose restrictions on the exemption of the application of the Public Procurement Act. So far, these restrictions have never existed. We believe that for some values it takes 12 million, you say five. For diplomatic and consular representations 30, you say five. In the current law, the application of the Public Procurement Act was completely excluded. Don't say what doesn't say anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34137	Thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic, from the place: Replica. ) Mr. Stefanovic, you are technically right, the Democratic Party is mentioned, but really please... (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: He mentioned me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34138	That'll be very positive. You'll see. There's no real fight. I must say, Mr. Arsic, you're right. What kids would cure - you've figured us out. Indeed, Mr. Becic, this is nothing negative. So you've noticed exactly that we're not actually talking about the same amendment, especially with counterpart Kovacevic. We knew that, but we wanted to make our point about what you're doing. Good job on your watch and keep it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34139	Mr. Bozovic, I see you have a smile so, I said maybe you gave up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34140	Thank you, Mr. Becic. (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: On what basis? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Arsic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34141	I'm sorry, the MPs are right. On what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34142	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34143	What replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34144	You gave me a replica just now...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34145	No, I gave it to Mr. Stefanovic. I gave you the agenda, but at the moment I saw that you had no more time as a parliamentary group, so I can't give you my word. Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Mr. Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34146	Therefore, we have proposed in Article 4(5), which amends Article 7 paragraph 1 point 12, that the following words: “in accordance with the law” be deleted and the rest of the sentence is deleted. We think that public procurement, when it comes to science, education and especially culture, should not have this restriction, because so far, many cultural workers and their associations have had objections since the adoption of this law, so we ask the minister to accept our proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34147	The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34148	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, member of the world's most inefficient government, one of the most inefficient governments in the world, I see you've decided to take a bite, I think it's quite human. You're not the ones who don't eat or go to the bathroom.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34149	Mr. Veseinovic, I will include this time, but please, you weren't there when I asked the MPs on this side, the minister in this case is a guest in the National Assembly, there as a representative of the government and explains the government's position, but I ask you not to insult the minister. He is not obliged here to listen carefully to the debate, to give explanations, to the government's position, and at the same time to hear us insult him as the MPs. Please try again to refrain from insulting the minister. I thank you in advance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34150	No offense, but pleasant. In any case, this member of the law and the other members of the law allow for greater non-transparency, provide volunteering and enable what is said in Serbia, and it is said that public procurement is not carried out transparently, that the brothers of certain state officials, not scurrying, aunts, etc., but brothers, in certain cities of Serbia, are public procurement, i.e. no public procurement can be realised without them. In order not to have such stories, and no one is denying them, it would be good to give up these amendments to the law, Mr Vujovic, the respected ministers, but to bring amendments and additions to laws that would not extend, such as this Article five, the exemption from public procurement of certain areas. I counted them here, only in this article, 12. So, 12 exceptions to public procurement, so at the moment of this law being passed, you didn't remember that this shouldn't be in the law. No, you've actually realized...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34151	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34152	One minute and 34 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34153	Yeah, but you spoke 30 seconds before I interrupted you and that's two minutes total. I would ask that you spend your time on amendments, not on the qualifications of ministers and government. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, who proposes the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34154	I join the good wishes for a nice meal. Article 5 introduces a new Article 7a, which is very simple and very clear and precise. I'll read point one. ‘The contracting authority shall supervise that legal person, a similar supervision which shall exercise control over its organisational units, within the meaning of Article 2(2)’. It's so clear that I'm going to do it again. "The contracting authority shall supervise this right person, a similar supervision which shall exercise control over its organisational units, within the meaning of Article 2(2)." It's probably an explanation for the introduction of Article 7a. to tighten the conditions for not implementing the Public Procurement Act, or it is to be liberalised. I didn't get it from what it says in the new article 7a. Do these strengthen the conditions for avoiding the application of the Public Procurement Act or are they being reduced? I'd like someone to tell me that. But why isn't that clear? Why isn't that clear to me, why isn't that clear to the proposings? Because that's how the law was made. And that is why I need to, and I will repeat another old Bible proverb - who, by law by emergency procedure, deletes it with amendments. I can read on. Otherwise, the text is such that it really is such an exemplar of the destruction of Serbian language. There are four ways, times three, to avoid the implementation of this law, because attitude one reads: "The provisions of this article do not apply to contracts which the contracting authority...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34155	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34156	... concludes with other legal persons, if all the following conditions are met. “
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34157	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34158	Tell me, what does this mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34159	I can understand the comments on the language used in these articles, this is the believed consequence of the translation of the direct directive in the text, and I think we should work together to see how more systematically quality we translate it into a spirit of language. This, I think, passes the test, that it literally translates and probably does no harm legally, but I agree it is not in the spirit of the Serbian language. The point of this member is that there is no need for public procurement when it comes to contracts with connected persons. In other words, when the supplier controls directly, i.e. has the same kind of financial control, so-called. Controls and audits of the person doing so. Therefore, if someone works under a ministry in some administration that is directly subject to the ministry in control, then there is no need to go to public procurement. That's what this member's all about. Try to enjoy the meaning of the text. Here he says -- if someone who orders does it with someone who de facto controls, so it's either a ministry administration or part of a public enterprise that he controls directly, then it doesn't really make sense that it goes to public procurement, because it controls directly and is, of course, responsible for these purchases.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34160	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34161	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, of course, I suggest not to accept this amendment, therefore, an amendment to Article 5, but also to all 92 amendments submitted by an independent MP, most effectively, to say, an MP in this Assembly, but unfortunately effective in changing parties and effective in writing meaningless amendments. This is obviously about a certain competition, I would say, the independent MPs who will write more amendments to the text - are deleted. But I wouldn't go into their relationship, either way, it's about an extremely irresponsible and irresponsible approach to the writing of amendments. So it's totally unacceptable for me to delete Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34162	Mr. Markovic, please just return to the amendment and do not qualify for the need for MPs to submit amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34163	Right here, I'm just saying that it's totally unacceptable for me to delete Article 5, but so are all the other members of this bill. And yet we have very significant mistakes and these mistakes refer to the regular number of these amendments, so we see that the respected doctor of legal science cannot write Roman 92, nor Roman 91, nor Roman 90, so I call on him to learn such a thing, and for such a thing he could address MP Pavicevic, who I see correctly writing Roman numbers. So I'm sure he'll come out and help him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34164	Just please, one question, is it the same as when it comes to Mr. Pavicevic, should I remind you for five seconds before two minutes or exactly two minutes? So you can finish your thought. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I was speaking to the minister. No, I'm only asking this because, without someone, I'm asking because Mr. Pavicevic said that for exactly two minutes... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You can try... I have no communication with you. It's okay, Mr. Zivkovic, I'm just asking, nothing more. Because now you're out of time. Time has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34166	It's a clean situation here. There's no abuse here. I would like my colleagues, to respect fully that Mr. Zivkovic asked the minister, but the other applicant for the amendment has characterized that someone here is going to get a job beyond public procurement as they please. Well, it's not like that. This is about confidential business. The founder of a public enterprise, for example, could be local self-government. The original jurisdiction of local self-government is maintaining hygiene at the level of local self-government territory. One part of it is financed from the fees that citizens pay for taking out garbage, one part can't. It's the removal of wild dumps, street washing, etc. Now, should public procurement be conducted to clean and wash the streets, if we have a company entrusted to by local self-government? That's what's been happening so far under the Public Procurement Act. But now it's unequivocally legal. These are the entrusted deals of a local self-government to companies where the local self-government is the founder or any other state-owned enterprise. Some other founder within the state or any other state authority. So, just one unnecessary and often wrong way of interpreting the provisions of the Public Procurement Act because you've had situations to question public procurement and endangering a direct public enterprise where the founder is a local self-government to get someone else a job. It is fully protected and protected exclusively by state interest, regardless of whether it is RS, autonomous province or local self-government units.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34167	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Jovanovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34168	I thank the chairman, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honourable ministers and honored guests, an amendment that I have filed on behalf of the DS in Article 5, additional to Article 7a. Item 6 point 1, that I do not turn out to be talking about this amendment, stuck, after saying, quote – and in order to achieve their common interests, we suggest that it be deleted for the simple reason that – whose common interests, Mr Arsic? Is it the common interest of a few SNS officials to whom this law, which you change into more than 50%, and your first law is from 2012, allows some interest of a personal nature, a party, not at all, or do you kill your children in this way? You've changed more than 50% of the members, and you haven't passed a new law. Why, if this one is so good and this one prevents corruption and crime in Serbia? If you answer my question – what are the criteria for changing things and members of the existing law and when it comes to small but also other procurements, how do you think that Serbian citizens can believe that you are fighting organised crime and corruption and you are passing a law that allows organised crime and corruption? You have no answer to that question because there are no criteria and you know it well and you have enabled this one to know by who knows which time in this assembly to pass a law that can rob Serbia and that will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34169	I thank Mr. Bozovic. Mr. Arsic, you have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34170	I didn't know the EU was a corrupt country. This is an EU directive. Guys, what's wrong with you? What are you talking about? A common interest where private capital does not prevail in decision-making and profit-sharing? Who are you talking about? Come on, say it nicely - we're against the EU, we don't want their directives. Find me those who will rob Serbia because of this member. Find me. But I like one other thing. Thanks to the previous Public Procurement Act and the one that was passed in 2012, we have reduced DS to only 5% of the contract annex. While you were annexing 25%, you financed the campaign well and you had a 25% score. Now that there's only 5%, that's your election result, and that's how many Serbian citizens trust you, only 5%. I wouldn't laugh. I have the right to laugh, and if I were you, I'd cry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34171	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34172	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the member of the most incompetent, or inefficient government in the world, in this Article 6, you are trying to cloud the eyes of those who read the law and that all that you have done in the previous article, which is that you have made it possible to exempt from the Public Procurement Act, you are now saying that you will be conducting public procurement communications by the contracting authorities on the public procurement portal. Well, he can't do that, Mr. Vujovic, to solve all the intransparency you've introduced, even with the very fact that Mr. Bozovic just said that you've changed 50% of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and practically made it impossible to read the law. The “PROKRET Movement” is explicitly opposed to these changes, as they will introduce chaos into public procurement. They already exist. Non-transparency is at a high level. You're just increasing your intransparency with this. Mr. Vujovicu, withdraw this law. In many areas there are delays in public procurement, there are no machines in healthcare, medicines, etc., while in other areas public procurement is booming, of course, past the law. I ask you, do you have any knowledge that the brothers of individual officials are conducting public procurement, of course, in an untransparent way, in a way that they manage public procurement in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34173	Time, thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34174	I don't know what your other comments are about. What this amendment refers to, is in the original law of Article 20, where at the end of the first paragraph, communication is then done by publishing public procurement transactions by written means, by mail, e-mail and fax, it is added - as well as by publishing by the contracting authorities on the public procurement portal. This is in line with the European Directive and I don't know who it hurts. I don't see how that's connected to all these other things you said. This only expands and adds publication of information on public procurement on the public procurement portal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34175	Thank you. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34176	Some benefit from answering the previous amendment and my questions by the minister is that we have learned that these amendments to the law are in fact a bad translation of the European Commission's directive and that is not good. It's really sad if someone in Brussels had to tell you that there was a public procurement portal and that it wasn't already contained in the previous law. But it is no good that the laws in Serbia are bad translations of any law, even if they come from the EU. Of course, there is no need to prove my personal views and views of my party around the EU, but this is a devaluation of what is coming from Brussels. So it would be a good idea if, after all, this law, I agree with a previous colleague, to withdraw, to find a good translator. If you don't, we can find volunteers who can do it without public procurement, without any donation from the government, so we can get a written, written text that should be established for writing a new law. Because, according to the unique methodological rules that this government is following, and this Parliament should be held, when more than 50% of the law is amended, it should not be amended and amended, but rather a new law is written. There was enough time for this, and the irregularities observed were long known and there was enough time to do so in one way appropriate to the European Commission directives. There are a lot of directives coming from Brussels, so they absolutely don't respect each other here. Here, the directives that come from Abu Dhabi are more respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34177	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34178	I don't understand any MPs again. Everyone has the right to their own political struggle. I don't know what's untransparent here. Even more transparent, I like to say a Serbian nice word – clearer, more visible, more noticeable everything that happens with public procurement. What is not transparent to me, is not visible, it is not clear that it is said by an MP who presents himself as the leader of the “Rear Movement” and does not know what the movement is. He likes to keep everything hidden, and he can't go out on a simple rally, to see how many supporters he has, to see what his program is, to finally know what he wants, to see that movement. The movement was SNS in 2008 and we proved it to you in the 2012 and 2014 elections. We have shown you how effective we are and showed you how inefficient you were, except in corruption, except in crime, except in destroying the Serbian economy, except in borrowing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34179	Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Veselinović, I don't know which way to give you the replica because you didn't mention it. (Janko Veselinović, from the town: The meaning is ‘The Movement for PRECRET’. But, Mr. Veselinovic, you are here as an independent MP. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: No, I did not. I don't know what you think it is, but you're here for us as an independent MP and I have to treat you like that. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34180	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, absolutely unacceptable to delete Article 6. There is no member of this law that is in greater, so to speak, contradictions with the proposal of this amendment, and especially with the reasons why this amendment is proposed. For the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I have to read it. So, the amendment reads - deletes, and the explanation reads like this - this member creates conditions for greater corruption and less, be careful, transparency, as well as additional complexity in the application of the Public Procurement Act. That's what the proposer of this amendment says. Let's see what Article 6 says. Article 6 says, in Article 20 paragraph 1, after saying, "or by fax", the point is replaced by a comma and, pay attention, the words are added: "as well as by publication by the contracting authorities on the public procurement portal". I don't know who can conclude based on this that it's some kind of intransparency. Well, this is an example of transparency. You shouldn't have suggested to delete it, if you're really pushing for transparency. I don't know whose brothers are engaged, or what he was saying, in public procurement, but I do know that they are the brother and father of a former minister, which was just spoken of by the head of the SNS parliamentary group, as well as the fiancée of a former minister, that they were engaged in public procurement. I suggest that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34181	Thank you. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidić and Blagoje Bradic, MP Janko Vesenović, MP Dejan Radenkovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34182	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, therefore, we have made an amendment to Article 7 which amends Article 21(6) where you have proposed: "The Public Procurement Administration will form a model of an internal plan to prevent corruption in public procurement. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” It is part of a law that speaks of general measures to prevent corruption. We have suggested that the proposal be deleted and the old position remains, which says: "The Public Procurement Administration is obliged to, in co-operation with the state authorities responsible for fighting corruption, form a plan to fight corruption in public procurement and deliver to the government for adoption. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” I think the solution that you're changing is better than what's been proposed because it's logical that the Anti-Corruption Administration, in co-operation with the Public Procurement Department, makes up a plan to fight possible corruption in public procurement. I think it's better to remain an old solution, that it's more complete and complex than what you've suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34183	First the promoters, Minister, and you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34184	Only, President, Mr. Arsic, he can take a look at the turn.org, and I'll hand it to him now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34185	Please talk about the amendment, really, onion, this is how it is for the citizens of Serbia. Come on, you're talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34186	Therefore, this Article 7 changes the existing Article 21 which deletes, therefore, the Government's proposal, now listen: "The Public Procurement Administration is obliged to work with the state authorities responsible for combating corruption," he says, "constitute a plan to fight corruption in public procurement and deliver to the Government for adoption. “ It’s an existing text. You, Mr. Vujovicu, suggest that the new text reads - Public Procurement Administration to form a model of an internal plan to prevent corruption in public procurement. So instead of an integrated plan delivered to the government, it will form a model of an internal plan that is not delivered to the government. So is this transparency and is it a bad translation of the European directives, Mr Vujovic? What's the matter here? So this is exactly what the previous speaker was reading, reducing transparency, increasing corruption risks. That's why the Turnover Movement is against this. Mr. Arsic can know that well. So this is where the corruption risk increases. The uncertainty of the public procurement process is increasing here, and the possibility is increasing, Serbian citizens are well aware that certain brothers of individual officials are conducting public procurement in Serbia. The citizens know their names, maybe you don't know. I think you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34187	Thank you very much. You had two minutes. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34188	Another proof that this is a better variant, the law, as a result of a poor translation of the directive from Brussels, a worse variant – a law with bad intentions. What you are erasing, and it says: "The Public Procurement Administration is obliged to work with the state authorities responsible for combating corruption to form a plan to fight corruption in public procurement and deliver to the government for adoption. “ This is a directive, Ministers, European Union. So what you're erasing is the European Union directive. This "internal" is completely inexplicable. The fight against corruption, on the contrary, should be public. The public is the best ally in any fight against corruption. Perhaps some bad translator deliberately or accidentally translated it internally, but I have no doubt the minister knows English well and should not have missed such a mistake unless he had read this law at all. That the public is a good ally in the fight against corruption is evidence and a tender for Prokop, who won a company, I don't remember any more. One NGO from Prokupje, led by Mr. Dobrasinovic, if I recall correctly, pointed to that. He was evicted by the chairman of the Public Finance Control Committee, Arsic, because he insisted on it. The Constitutional Court or the Administrative Court, I no longer remember, made a decision a few billion dinars a few days ago, a verdict in favour of Dobrosinovic, and annuls the public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34189	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34190	First of all, there's obviously an elemental lack of knowledge of law here. The government of the Republic of Serbia could not agree to a plan to fight corruption... (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Mr Arsic, how did you not know that? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34191	Bozovic, don't throw it away, it's tasteless.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34192	... in public procurement, for one simple reason. There's one part of the criticism, it's for the Public Procurement Authority, and I'm going to support everyone, but it's the director you've set up since you started public procurement, so you've even changed the law for him. The government could not adopt this because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia agreed on an Action Plan to implement a national anti-corruption strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018. Why the Public Procurement Administration and has not delivered its plan to the Government to curb corruption in public procurement, the issue is for the Public Procurement Authority. As far as Prokop station is concerned, as far as I know, the Finance Committee adopted Mr. Dobrosinovic's report. What's the problem then? The fact that he's been expelled, it's because he broke Parliament's rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34193	I ask the MPs not to communicate through the O.R., but through the Rules of Procedure with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34194	Because the Civilian Supervisor is doing something for the Finance Committee, not the Finance Committee for him. One more thing, he was so capable, that instead of having a decision in the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures to inform the Committee on Finance, we would also invite a member of the Commission, the rapporteur and the entire Commission, to see what kind of decision it would be, he would keep quiet about it. According to the Public Procurement Act, we have the right to do so. The moment he wrote the complaint to the Administrative Court, the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, he couldn't do anything more about it, except adopt the report. Whatever we've done, it would be interfering with the work of the judicial authorities. You know it all well. But that's why you don't mind saying it - he was kicked out of the Committee session. Why don't you say why? Why don't you say why? Because he wasn't talking about the subject of public procurement, he was talking about his political views. I don't mind, let them talk on the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34195	Ambassador, please, as authorized, let us return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34196	We are going back to the amendment because this particular member caused this problem that was happening on the Finance Committee, this very plan to fight corruption in public procurement. It is obvious that some rights have only MPs. I don't mind any of you taking your political views here. This is a place for it. The reason I don't mind, we got a mandate from the citizens, not a confidential job from an institution for which someone has to file a report.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34197	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandar Jerkov and Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34198	I thank the presidents of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Vujovic, we, therefore, believe that individual members, and above all that has been said in the last few minutes, are very important when it comes to fighting organised crime and corruption. This member, Mr Vujovic, is slightly different from those proposed by my predecessors, although I can agree with them that this old solution is also better than that proposed by SNS MPs and you as Minister of Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we propose next – that the Ministry of Finance, Mr Vujovic, adopt a plan of Public Procurement to prevent corruption in public procurement by 31 December 2015. That you, Mr. Vujovic, are one of those who will adopt the plan, the model of the internal plan of the administration. Could you please tell me that you have something against the government of the Republic of Serbia, you, as minister, also engage in solving this issue and this problem. We have already said that the degree of corruption in the new law where you change more than 50% of the members, the degree of corruption is huge and the Agency has even made its comments, and when small procurements are also about other favourable opportunities for local SNS officials, which allows them to fill the budget for local elections. Now we suggest that you be the one, who along with the U.S. will write an internal plan and adopt it along with the Public Procurement Administration because we think that this reduces the degree of corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34199	You've wasted group time, it's been two minutes, I'm sorry. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34200	Let me go, if I can take a few sentences to explain why the text has been changed. So, at the time this was written there was no National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia. The National Strategy for the period 2013-2018 was adopted and adopted here in the Assembly, which is very important, and the Action Plan was adopted by the Government. So after that, we had to adjust this plan. The Public Procurement Administration is in line with one, two, three, four, with the position of the 5th law, but the government said it would create confusion, because it would then contradict the integrated text of the National Strategy in which it was already contained. So to start an initiative from the Administration would be in conflict with the National Plan, so it is said that according to the National Plan, the Administration will make this proposal where there will be internal measures to implement this plan. So it's just a matter of legal sequences, so the conditions have changed, which is why it's changed, not because someone's changed something in the approach. Secondly, I would like to thank you for your confidence, and we will be very happy to take part in the preparation and implementation of this plan, because we must not go beyond our competences defined by the Law on the Ministry adopted by this Assembly. I therefore propose that I remain within the competences defined by the law, and that each one uses its capacities to the fullest extent possible, to influence the quality and the fight against corruption in public procurement and all other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34201	Thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34202	On behalf of the Turnover Movement, I have submitted an amendment and we will see what kind of response I will now receive from Minister Vujovic, a member of one of the most incompetent governments in the world. Mr Vujovicu, as you explain the fact that an existing Article 22 has deleted the provision, I quote - the client whose total value of public procurement at the annual level exceeds a billion dinars is required to educate a special service that will carry out planning control, implementation of the procedure, execution of public procurement. That's what you deleted. Oh, for God's sake, Mr. Minister. So, for a company that has over a billion euros purchases so far, it's been an obligation to form a special commission that will monitor these public procurements, you've now deleted it and deleted the next one, two, three, four positions that explain it in more detail. This is the best evidence to bring transparency to the lowest possible extent. Why? Because of the brothers. Because of the brothers, Mr. Vujovicu. You say there was a translation of the directive. There was something else. It was such as a member about the level of purchase of small value to be eligible, some purchases being made until the next local elections, so that there was little for them and little for the political party from which they came for the local elections. Well, that's clear to everyone and the little kids are clear on that, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34203	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34204	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic and the Honorable Guests of course from the Ministry, I support the argument that was made to the amendment to Article 8 of this proposal of the law just before the honourable fellow MP Janko Veseinovic announced. National MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have added another argument to this argument that we have written down in an explanation for this amendment. We consider this change to be an 8. The bill contributes to the government's failure to do something that does not achieve the strengthening of the public procurement system, gentlemen. I then read in the reasons for the law, the minister wrote it like this. Since 1 April 2013, Minister Vujovic says the Law on Public Procurement, which represents a significant contribution to the improvement of the public procurement system in the Republic of Serbia, is being applied. The man who reads concludes excellent law, applies, we have results, then already in the next paragraph, says – well, there are some entities that have pointed out the need to further strengthen the public procurement system. When it is written like that, a reasonable man thinks – well, it was a practice, we have concluded that some small part needs to be fixed, and then we get a proposal to amend and supplement the law that changes 92 members of a law that has 178 members in all. Well, gentlemen, it didn't seem to change that little thing, it's such a change. I think, Mr. Vujovic, that we cannot treat this kind of content in our National Assembly in this way regarding public procurement. Then, Mr. Vujovicu... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34205	Please, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34206	All right, I'll keep going later.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34207	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article, as it is written under the new law that we are going to adopt, is talking about full transparency in public procurement, because for the first time, the orderlies are obliged not only to publish their internal acts on their home page, practically, everything that is related to public procurement. And as for the non-direct process of communication with public procurement participants, the contracting authorities will be obliged to publish on their website. From such a level of transparency, is there anything better to defend against corruption and abuse in public procurement? The whole law on public procurement is essentially going towards one goal, to protect and combat corruption in connection with the public in the work. Essentially, if you have the public, transparency, in the whole public procurement process from the moment the plan is being made, and if it is available to everyone, there is no mechanism of control that is more important than those who want to participate in this tender that will not detect any deficiencies in the procedure, was that it is intentional or accidental. So, the public in public procurement is the essence and that is the main difference between public procurement and the laws that were until 2013, this previous and this one that we are adopting today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34209	Thank you. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34210	This article changes the existing text of Article 23 in an unnecessary way in my view. Three times reading makes it difficult to see, except for the layout of a line of words in a sentence and perhaps more acceptable style, where there was obviously no impact of a bad translation from Brussels. But that also means, as in Article 23, completely unnecessary changes that do not introduce any new institute that could contribute to the fight against corruption in the field of public procurement. Therefore, he needs to be deleted. That's one of the reasons why we should delete this member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34211	When it comes to Article 9, this looks like an additional confusion. We're not sure what the writer of these lines was going to say. A rather clear provision, which cannot act as a bidder or as a subcontractor, is now relatively or less clear. What is a legislator, and what is worst we don't know who the legislator is, we know who passed this law, which is the Government, signed by Aleksandar Vukic, for three years and two days participating in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if these are the domains of reform to turn a simple sentence into a complex sentence, I can accept that too. Mr. Vujovicu, do you understand what the writer was trying to say? I really didn't. I had this written to me before. It was quite clear, and I don't understand what changes are important to me. Do they have brothers here, too, or is it something else? The PRECRET movement is against writing laws that create the legal sky in Serbia's legal system of additional chaos. This law amending more than 50% of the provisions of the existing law will also be a problem for those most competent for public procurement...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34212	Time. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34213	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear to me what the legislator wanted to say to this member, but I do not understand what the amendment's proposer wanted with its amendment – it is deleted, especially by reason of this amendment, which, again, is completely in contradiction with the amendment itself. To make things clearer, I'll just read it briefly. Therefore, the person involved in the planning of public procurement, the preparation of competitive documents or certain parts of it and its related person cannot act as a bidder or a subcontractor, nor can he cooperate with the tenderers or subcontractors, when preparing the offer, if the equality of the bidder and the competition in the procurement process is thereby disrupted. To make things clearer, because of the citizens of Serbia, the amendment reads - is deleted. The explanation is – this member creates conditions for greater corruption and less transparency, as well as additional complexity in the application of the Public Procurement Act. Madam Chairman, would you like anyone to explain to me how this member creates conditions for greater corruption? I realized that this member is reducing the possibility of corruption, not creating greater conditions. A family treasure expert, for family jewelry, probably didn't understand this member very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34214	No one was mentioned. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I was directly called.) He didn't call you. I'm listening. We all understood him and all the promoters. MPs Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34215	This member needs to be changed. I'll read it to you again, and the fellow MP read it, so it'll be clear why you have to change it. It is - persons who participated in the planning of public procurement, the preparation of competitive documents or certain parts of it and the related person, cannot appear as a bidder or as a subcontractor, nor can they cooperate with bidders or subcontractors when preparing the offer, provided that equality is disrupted. Who will decide whether equality has been violated in this way? Don't get in, I've read these provisions for the third time and so far it hasn't been appreciated twice whether equality has broken. If you have a person who participated in the planning, prepare the competition, etc. I sincerely ask you, because it is very important, that you throw out this part of the sentence, if this violates the equality of the bidder and the competition, because you will have only a dozen public procurements, where it will be found that equality is not violated, and the damage will be common. It doesn't matter if I'm an opposition in this government or what the government does, don't put that sentence on. I read it the third time. Also, the end of the second position of this member is not good, you say – if the tenderer, or the applicant, directly or indirectly gave, offered or put in the form of any benefit or attempted to learn confidential information or to in any way influence the behaviour of the lieutenant during the procurement procedure, the contracting authority is obliged to reject the offer and to notify the competent state authorities without delay. What offer to refuse?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34216	Time, thank you. Member of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm just asking, Gordana, do these two amendments have similarity because the minister called? No, I don't. Then let me give the word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34217	I'm not sure I'm reading the text right here, it's an amendment to Article 23 that you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34218	No, to Article 9...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34219	And it does refer to Article 23, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34220	To article 23 in the basic law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34221	So, article 23 in law. Your amendment says that practically after preparing the offer, the point is to delete the rest of the sentence and add this second sentence to the amended text. I accept that amendment on my own responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34222	Thank you. The Minister accepts the amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic and the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, are two additional arguments I would like to make regarding our amendment to Article 10. The first argument concerns a kind of inconsistency I noticed in the action of Minister Vujovic in our National Assembly. Minister Vujovic did not accept this amendment, and the explanation is the following – the amendment is not accepted, since there are no reasons to state the basis and justification for the solution set out in the text of the amendment. Minister Vujovic, when we submitted the amendments to that first draft of the law, so when you were putting the text, we do not accept the amendment, because you consider your proposal to be more comprehensive, because you also believe that this term contains in itself all the reasons that point to the foundation and justification of the solution that you advocate. So, I expected that, even if the minister came here, he might not have consistently applied a certain approach, not to apply one, and for another, a different approach, plus I was surprised that Minister Vujovic might not have known that he would remain remembered for this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement, primarily defends Mr Arsic, who, in the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia, respected Mr Vujovic, for ordering him to be expelled from the session of the Civil Supervisor's Committee which later received the dispute before the court, because the court ordered that the agreement on Prokop, Minister Vujovic, be terminated. But now there is no Mr. Arsic to defend your bill, nor does Mr. Babic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34224	Ambassador, it's not worth it to me. When I chair, it's not worth calling. No one's getting a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34225	But there aren't any, there's no Babic, there's no Arsic. He can't get a replica when they're gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34226	Please, it's past your time to call an MP who's in the O.R. and who's writing amendments or studying for the next item. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34227	Article 27, although we could listen in earlier discussions that we had an objection because we deleted certain parts of the members. We're not touching anything right now. Article 27 remains as it is, but we're only increasing repressive measures in case any form of corruption occurs. Therefore, if a case arises to establish any form of corruption, the contracting authority shall have the obligation to terminate the contract in that case which will be terminated at the time when the competent authority determines that corruption has occurred. Why is this important to establish “the competent authority”? You know, you have different business interests with different bidders. It's entirely possible wrong information, abuse of information. It must be above the bidder and one who decides that there is a mechanism that will determine that there was a mechanism for corruption. When the Authority does, then it's perfectly normal for that contract to be terminated and that's what we added to Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34228	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34229	So, amendment to an existing Article 27, Amendment to Article 10. The bill, with great pleasure, I must conclude that Minister Vujovic also accepted my arguments, which my colleague Komic explained further and more precisely, when it came to the previous member and denied, it seems to me that he is not in the O.R., probably not going to have to come back tonight, Mr Markovic, who said this law is not corrupt. It is corrupt, but let us return to the amendment to Article 10, i.e. the existing Article 27. Relativization and again the possibility of creating a higher degree of corruption. So one exception is created again here, a possibility is created for subjective assessment, as it is said – the contracting authority in the case of Articles 1 and 2 of this Article may continue the procurement procedure, with the agreement being concluded, etc. Once again, it is possible for the orderer to carry out the procedure beyond the objections that existed. I hope now that Mr. Markovic, who ran into the O.R., will not say that there is no high level of corruption here and that this article is not meant for any brothers. Yes, it is clear that the PRECRET Movement indicates that, gentlemen, you write laws on the orders of some persons on the side, for financial powers, for those who conduct public procurement by the authority, past the order, so these are stakeholders. Mr Vujovicu, why, why this extra attitude?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34230	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34231	I'm in a dilemma whether to advertise a Rules of Procedure or a replica, but I'm going to use the right to reply. Apparently, the previous speaker, not to mention the last name, that I would not cause a replica, does not understand very well this member and why he has submitted the amendment at all, especially with such an explanation, nor the Public Procurement Act itself. The question of morality, I think the least right he has to mention. I've been invited since this morning to mention folk songs. I would like to point out that the Serbian people have a nice custom, which is that the current events in folk songs. So there is a folk song that reads "The Haral of Tadic" and that song is a very beautiful and instructive song, it exists on "The Tub" and has over 150,000 views, and it speaks of a period from 2008 to 2012 when the previous speaker was the party's feather, and the group and talks about the state of the state and the citizens of Serbia. I think the least right to respect moral shortages is that of an MP who, after a ship that started to sink right into another ship, ran from that ship to a third ship, etc., so he no longer knows how many parties he was in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34232	I won't give you the right to the line, because you said, "Come on, Jano, let's dance." Now this is something else, and that's it. Every single song and go back to the amendments. That was about 12.15 hours. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34233	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before I say anything about this amendment, I just want to support what the minister today supported at the session by the amendment of counterpart Gordana Comic. Among other things, she explained it. I believe that it is very important and that what she has seen through the existing proposed solution will be clearly corrected by the amendment and clearly specified in order to avoid different interpretations. As for this amendment to Article 27, I believe that no one, nor the contracting authority in the procurement process, can know in advance, nor has there been any such information, the possibility of knowing whether any economic operator, the bidder, has hurt competition. That is why there is an anti-monopoly commission and of course we should not stop the processes and procedures of public procurement, but rather wait for the decision of the anti-monopol commission. If any economic operator has hurt competition, the contract will break and will go to a new public procurement, but if it is not, the procedure and the process will not stop business, which is very important. It is one of the main intensities of these amendments and the addition of the law that the law that entered into force on 1 April 2013 is being corrected, implemented. Of course, that's what those changes and supplements are for. The economy is alive, changes are everyday, and of course what is wrong, which is blocking business processes in our country need to be repaired and changed in this legal domain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34234	The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34235	Another example of a bad member of a bad law. In Article 11, Article 30(1), following the word "conflict of interest", the point is replaced by a comma and they add the words "if the existence of a conflict of interest has affected or could have affected". The vote by the contracting authority cannot conclude a contract on public procurement with the bidder in the event of a conflict of interest point. It is also the same now – means in the event of a conflict of interest point, if the existence of a conflict of interest has affected or could affect the decision in the procurement process. What's the definition of conflict of interest? It's just that someone can influence some process in an unauthorized way. In Article 11, where you are changing Article 10, you are introducing corruption as a legal category in the Public Procurement Act. Take a good look at this. You have a chance to take advantage of one of the ninety-nine good amendments that read – it is deleted and to keep an old solution that is excellent. There is no need to change, and you here are fully relativating this good solution by introducing something that is a question of whether a conflict of interest has affected or could have affected the decision-making process of public procurement. Who's gonna decide? Who can explain the conflict of interest to the possibilities? So there's an innocent conflict of interest. Someone has a conflict of interest and is sitting under a glass bell. The conflict of interest in itself excludes the possibility for the client to make a contract with that bidder.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34236	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34237	The turnaround movement has submitted an amendment to this member for the same reasons. A colleague of Zivkovic explained enough. So relativization allows for a higher level of corruption. The addition of this Article is a good member of the law on public procurement, its basic concept is marred and again enables subjectivity, subjective decision-making on something that is the course of the procurement process. Therefore, Minister, I hope you will confirm what we said earlier that you will also accept this amendment and agree not to further derail the basic law that you said should be anti-corruption. And as for folk songs, we can apply them to this amendment, there's this song, I'm not sure if it's folk or turbo, it says – he's Vukic, we give a mandate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34238	How's that turbo going? What's a turbo? I mean, it's offensive little for our parliament, so I don't know what a turbo is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34239	Well, I'm saying the same thing. So, I think that's a little turbo note...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34240	Yeah, and I'd like to talk about the amendment, and the songs we finished, my songs, my wishes, it's over. That can't happen right now. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the city: My songs, my dreams. You know that better than I do, but we'll talk about TV shows on TV, Radio Belgrade, I don't know either. Members of the 12th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Janko Veselinovic and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored President Gojkovic, Mr Vujovic, the honored guest and guest, is a three-layered argument for the amendment to Article 12 of this Bill, which was tabled by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and myself, but also by MP Janko Vesenovic. First of all, here's to the case of attitude 2. The government is proposing that certain words be deleted, and we, gentlemen of the SNS MPs, suggest that words be deleted. How you're going to do it in Voting Day is of great interest to me, especially given the argument that Mr Martinović, Orlic, Markovic, has often said here, that they cannot accept the amendment with the text – is deleted. Be careful, the government says - it is deleted, I conclude MPs will not vote for it to be deleted, we suggest that it be deleted to be deleted. My expectation, by the logic of things, gentlemen, is that most MPs here will vote that the government is not coming with the idea of erasing something. If that were not the case, it would mean that SNS MPs are inconsistencies regarding the amendment to Article 12, which contains this text inconsistencies, gentlemen. The other thing, Minister Vujovic, I noticed, has already been silent for 15.20 minutes, not answering. Minister, don't follow the bad example of Minister Verbic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34242	Ambassador, come on, please, about the amendment. If you've prepared for this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34243	Well, you see, I am, Your Honor, I've been arguing all day from member to member, from law to law, but I see that the minister is not, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34244	You're a little improvising right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34245	The minister, I think, relied on Mr Arsic and the Babic who are not here, so I can mention them, I think in your court, because there will be no reason for replication, but I'm surprised they're not there either. The most we've defended is the minister, the minister defends himself with silence, and I don't think it's a good practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34246	Thank you very much. There are MPs, don't worry. They're here, the minister answered his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34247	If I can apply to your amendment – it is deleted to answer not accepted, so I will add only because this speeds up the procedure, use modern methods and place information on the site for everyone. Therefore, we do not accept and therefore want to speed up the process and no longer operate the 19th-century criteria where the postman brings and asks for a signed receipt to return. Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34248	According to the Rules of Procedure? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, a member of 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I listened patiently to this comedy exhibit by Mr Pavicevic, and I didn't want to react, but I think that now every measure is over. The dignity of the National Assembly has been seriously questioned. I respect the right of every MP to act here as an actor and try to attract the attention of a new Sophocle or Nusic or some comediographer who, in a satirically sense, will show the political life of Serbia, but you must not allow the minister here to defend himself because Mr. Pavicevic is neither a judge nor a prosecutor, and the minister is not blamed and there is no need to defend himself or defend him. Besides, I didn't want to react at the beginning of today. The Minister when he comes to the National Assembly is not a guest. The guests are sitting upstairs at the gallery. The minister is an authorised representative of the government and during the debate in the National Assembly he has the same rights and obligations as the MPs, and Mr Pavicevic should know that because he has been a MP since April 2014 and for these years and some days he could learn that. So don't let Mr. Pavicevic or anyone else speak to Mr. Babic himself, or Mr. Arsic, or any other MP, or allow the minister to see himself here as someone who's guilty and who needs to be defended or who needs to defend himself. From whom should he defend himself, from those who have ruined Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34250	Time. I thank you, MP. There's no need. I didn't break any rules of procedure. All day long, MPs would not artificially challenge replicas and very often MPs respond to it, so that I cannot react to what is said – neither you nor you, nor you, because it has been happening all day. The fact that the MP doesn't talk about the amendment, I've been fighting all day, but... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: He must not speak personally. That's right, but please don't throw it at me and that's not in line with the Rules of Procedure. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Sorry. I don't think it's appropriate to point a finger. I'll take it. I'm trying. So, I am doing my best to make sure that this debate is still going towards a debate on amendments, and I have to tolerate it some time because I simply know the MPs. He can't replica on a replica. I'll take you two minutes if you use it now. Tell the member when the injury was done because it has to be done directly. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Not a replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34251	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, I will do it as I do every time I report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now I'm calling on Article 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which defines order at the National Assembly session, and I think that the Rules of Procedure were injured so in article 108 because it was not intervened when Mr Martinovic spoke earlier, who will call me a comediographer in the National Assembly, respected National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic. I have here a dictionary of Serbian language, Mrs Gojkovic, in the edition of the Serbian Mother...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34252	A member, so I can follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34253	I've said it twice, 108, and the Serbian Language Dictionary says -- comediographer -- author of comedy. I think your obligation was to inform Mr. Martinovic that I have not written any comedy in this year and three months, but that I was an author and I am still several draft laws in the assembly procedure, respected President Gojkovic and when Mr. Martinovic says... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34254	You cannot speak to an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34255	I'm talking to you. When Mr Martinovic says that I do not have the right to directly address Mr Vujovic, to tell him that this is not true, that we MPs have the right directly to address the representatives of the executive authority, the members of the government, the Prime Minister, and that I do not have to, with the intervention of Mr Martinovic, declare a message to Mr Vujovic or tomorrow, for example. At four o'clock, Mr. Wolf, when he gets here. I hope he and the members of the government answer the question of the MPs. I believe it was your duty, and for this reason I had to intervene with the President of the National Assembly for the violation of this member of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34256	Thank you. It's no big deal to be Branislav Nušić, so I didn't react because, well, I love Branislav Nusic. Don't let us vote now for the injury I'm not responding to. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. Just say when it's done, because I can't breathe, not hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. (Alexander Martinović, from the place:Article 107(2)) Well, you called in a little while ago. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: I have applied to Article 107 but Article 1.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34257	So, I point out that the injured member of Section 107, who says – At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not allowed to directly address the MP to another MP, to use offensive expressions, or to present facts and assessments relating to private life...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34258	Ambassador, we discussed this a moment ago. I've got to break you guys up, too, and no one's getting hurt by the Rules of Procedure right now...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34259	I pointed out a violation of Article 107(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34260	I really have to stop you. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. You're the one who called for article 107...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34261	But article 107 has two bets. I'm calling for attitude one, and now I'm calling for attitude two.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34262	But you're alleging the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34263	Or attitude 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34264	Why? Have mercy on the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34265	I have mercy, Mrs. Gojkovic, towards you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34266	No one's spoken to you in the last two minutes directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34267	But wait, what does it mean, here, most kindly, I ask you to explain to me what it means when Mr. Pavicevic has his finger pointed to the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party all day? It reminds me of those movies when German officers point fingers... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34268	Don't, it doesn't make sense. Five minutes break. We've come to work, we've got hundreds of amendments. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: I can now point my finger...) You can, show in the break whatever you want. It doesn't make sense. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: And this makes sense? It's gone, too, and I answered nicely. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Then why don't you warn the man? He's been pointing his finger all day. The break is now, we can talk whatever we want for five minutes. We'll continue when the MPs stop talking about the Rules of Procedure. Rule 107, twice, and you're calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[after breaks]] The word is made by MP Janko Veselinovic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34270	Thank you. So this is about an amendment to Article 12, or 34 of the existing law. I'd just like to notice, Sophocles has mostly written tragedies, and this law is more like a tragedy, the truth, it's got a flash of comedy, and I can very easily prove it on the basis of this article and on the basis of our amendment to this article, or mine, on behalf of the Turnover Movement. Namely, the Government, the most incompetent in the world, is asking to delete the provision in which it is said - the decision of the 3rd member, the contracting officer, and now says, delivers all applicants of the application. Instead, it is said – puts it on a portal. Of course it's less transparent. The bidder himself will not receive a memo informing himself of these facts. What is even more tragic, in the last position is deleted -- the orderer will exclude the candidate from the candidate list if he ceases to meet the conditions for recognition of qualifications or if he gets a negative reference. Therefore, this: ‘or if it acquires a negative reference’ is deleted. So someone with a negative reference can participate in public procurement. I don't find it strange that tonight there are almost the same MPs of the opposition as MPs of the ruling parties, because this is a shameful law, Mr Vujovicu.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34271	Time. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34272	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be unserious to accept this amendment, hence the amendment to Article 12, which was proposed by an independent MP, because Article 12 is changing a member of the current law 34. Now, in order not to read the next article, I guess we've all read the article, but I want to point out what the effects are. Thus, increasing transparency, modernising the system of communication, increasing efficiency, and thus reducing the potential for corruption. So, all the opposite of what the amendment's proposing provides as an explanation for the acceptance of its amendment. So he says that this article creates conditions for greater corruption and less transparency, and we have proven that it is the other way around. But, you know what, it's easy to suggest these amendments so irresponsiblely -- it's deleted, and one typical explanation, a completely baseless explanation, repeat incessantly, and so on 92 times. It's hard to explain, it's hard to find arguments that would contribute to the thesis. I agree that it is an MP who is both an expert on jewelry and family treasure, etc., but obviously we have a problem with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34273	Thank you. It's a business thing. Here you go. What was wrong?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34274	Article 27 and a few other members that I can post afterwards. So, an MP, but not just an MP, and you, they determine what doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34275	MP, you're required to say which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34276	Article 27, I said, conduct the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34277	And I'm supposed to be innovating the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34278	The previous apostle said: an independent messenger. There is no term in the Rules of Procedure - an independent MP. I'm an MP for the Turnover Movement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34279	No, MP, I'll turn off your microphone. It's already really gone too far. No, I guess we know what was the name of the list and how the MP came here. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: And what was your name? You're gonna yell at me? Ambassador, I really do. That's amazing. But, okay, come on. Your group has wasted their time. (Vladimir Marinković, from the place: Rules of Procedure. What about you in the Rules of Procedure? What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34280	The Honorable President, Article 107, is the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here, all afternoon we have been listening to such qualifications about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, about a minister who, for what, eight full hours very constructively, has been very dedicated to answering questions and participating in the discussion, with such qualifications as "the shameful law", "the incompetent minister", "the incompetent government". I ask you to do everything you can to get this session into one stream and take the horrors. So, the minimum of civilized behaviour and one dialogue that belongs to this, as Pavicevic says, sanctuary, so to the high home, without expressing ourselves here in such a way. Thank you very much. I'm not asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34281	Thank you. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34282	Article 13 deals with amendments in Article 35(1). He says, after saying, "a contract assignment," he adds, "a framework agreement" and "that is, to try to make it clear to those few viewers who are following this session. It concerns the negotiation process. This means – when auctions are not to be held, direct negotiations can be made. There appears from the sky a framework agreement, as a legal option. I would like the minister, as he did not explain to me what he did for Article 7, if I remember correctly, where we found that the amendments to the law have damaged a good old solution and a new solution creates conditions for corruption, to explain to me that a direct negotiation procedure can come to a framework agreement, in which cases a framework agreement is applied, to give me an example of this, and to have to do with public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34283	Thank you. The applicant is also Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34284	In the name of the Turnover Movement, I have submitted an amendment to this article as well. So again, allowing greater intransparency. I can't even read it, it's not enough for me two minutes to read what's being deleted by the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. So this government is acting in a way that criticises the ruling coalition. Delete, delete, delete, delete, and now ask to delete, here's how much time I'm going to read, one position that says – the orderer is required to publish, within two days of the date of adoption, except in the cases referred to in point (7) of Article 1, on the public procurement portal and on its website, a decision on the award of a contract containing the information contained in Annex 3 to this Article, etc. So, extra intransparency. What, why, why? So this part of the text doesn't replace some new text, so there are no new clarifications. Simply, this part that's supposed to mean transparency is erased. That's what if Mr. Arsic were here, what would I tell him in the turnaround program, so transparency, the possibility that citizens interested have insight into what this government is doing. Nobody here knows what happened to the helicopter or knows what's going to happen to this public procurement. There is no possibility, because it will not be posted on the website, Mr Vujovicu. What was the occasion, do you have any information why you asked to delete this part?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34285	MP Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34286	I thank you, Madam President, you know when someone so lightly says some qualifications in two minutes, when he sees a serious man at a serious age, he can believe it. However, there is not one single piece of evidence, except for such naked hatred, demeaning and the need to disqualify the government of the Republic of Serbia. What I'm saying is that the applicable Public Procurement Act has significantly reduced the possibilities for abuse and corruption, compared to 2012, and we know that by 2012, or by 1 April 2013, the old Public Procurement Act was in force. One of the most significant preconditions was created by a significant reduction in the participation of negotiating procedures that are at great risk for abuses and fittings from 28% in 2012, and I am talking about that old Public Procurement Act, to 5% in 2014, 5% of the negotiation process. Which is an exceptional result for a year and somewhat stronger days of applying the Law on Public Procurement, that we come at least when it comes to the negotiation process, when the process is that "face there face", in four eyes, when some of the actions are most easily agreed, it comes down to 5%, or to the percentage that is in the EU member states. Transparency, what do we get with these amendments and additions to the law? All those who spend public funds, including the amendment promoter, will do so in full from now on. Completely, to make it public. Obligation to publish public procurement plans at the Portal of Public Procurement is being introduced. What's the problem? We're getting to that member. Thank you for the suggestion, we come to this member, there is a commitment, and be careful what does not correspond to the amendment's proposal, there is an obligation to publish a decision on the award of a public procurement contract. Well, why the obligation to publish a decision to award a public procurement contract is a lack of transparency. Well, that's more transparency. Then, everyone will be able to see, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be able to see who was elected, who made any offer, whether the one who made the most favourable offer, whose offer was rejected with a detailed explanation of the rejection was chosen. This brings this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. Who does this lack of transparency for? Only for someone who doesn't want to read and who's driven by political hatred, who wants to present it in the most morbid way possible. The obligation for public procurement contracts to be displayed transparently and publicly, to show who was elected, who had any offers, whether the one with the most favourable offer and whose offer was rejected and for which reason is the transparency of which of us, not only expects the European family of peoples who are approaching such steps and such proposals of the law, I think we expect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whose funds in the context of public finances and public procurement to be spent and it is our obligation to show how these funds are spent to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is an addendum to the transparency of the whole process and therefore should not be accepted by this amendment, as this would be a few steps of retreat.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34287	Thank you, Mr. Granny. According to Business, Dr Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34288	Dear Chairman, you have injured a member of 106th and 107th, first of all a member of 107th who says that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. So the previous speaker said about us who submitted previous amendments that we did it out of hatred and morbidity. I will try to explain in a very calm way why you should have warned the previous speaker, not to say such words, because they insult the dignity of the National Assembly and all of us MPs. So there was no hatred in submitting the amendment either in order to submit or in explaining the amendments. Neither do I hate Mr. Babic, nor do I hate any man in Serbia. Maybe I should at least love Mr. Granny and I don't like him, but I don't hate him. I ask Mr Babic not to talk about qualifications, which are not true and which insult the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We had your political stance on this law. We think he's bad, he's reducing transparency, he's increasing the potential for corruption. You have a different attitude, but it's not out of any political hatred, nor do I hate you personally, or in any other way. I'd really like you to leave the government as soon as possible. I think it's for this country, that it would be good for her, for three years and two days you've already been in power, but not because of the hatred, but because of the damage you're doing to the citizens of Serbia. That is why I consider the chairman, you should not allow such outbursts in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34289	Mr. Veselinović, to what you said, I can only say that I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure. As I can tell you, I didn't hear that. Possibly, because I was not present during Mr Babic's entire speech, because me and the president had switched at that time. So I would certainly react to the words that you said in the way you said it. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34290	Mr. Chairman, the applicant for the amendment will be in deep retirement when the SNS may be out of power, so he'll be having a lot more fun by then. You know, when you take one out and say one, but don't worry, we'll fight Mr. Veselinović for both your pension and your salary, as well as for the pensions and salaries of other citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34291	I'd just like to ask you not to mention each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34292	There's no need to be nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34293	Please, Mr. Babic, don't let Mr. Veseinovic throw you away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34294	Of course. You know, when you talk about certain things in the National Assembly and what you're saying and the political views you're making don't follow a single piece of evidence, not one single fact, not one single indicator, then what's it called. What do you call something like that? What do you call it? On the other hand, all that the MPs have brought forth, the SNS MPs have their own evidence and enpires. I hope the applicant of the amendment knows what it is. significant developments have been achieved in the transparency of public procurement. About 60,000 public procurement contracts were published on the portal in 2014. Compared to 2012, such a great Law on Public Procurement, such a good relationship with public finances, was published in 2012. Well, more transparently, 60,000 contracts for public procurement in 2014 or three times less contracts as published in 2012. Where's that transparency you're complaining about? Is that the transparency you're asking us to do? Could the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have seen where they disappeared and what they were doing with their finances and their resources? Could they have seen the contracts they were, and a quarter of the contracts were created in the negotiation process. The offerer comes to the director or the president of the municipality or I don't know who, good afternoon – good afternoon, I've been sent from the Crown Street, came here to make the contract, no matter how much and how, you'll pay, of course, I know this, that minister, you don't have to publish on the portal, you don't have to publish that contract, and that's it. Is that the transparency you're calling for? Twenty thousand contracts were published in 2012, in the form of 60,000 contracts as published in 2014. Three times as many. Not for three contracts, not for 30%, three times as many contracts are published, three times more transparent than you did. Then what transparency are you accusing us of? Then what are you accusing us of? As a result, it is necessary to distinguish speeches that are made out of pure political jealousy, from pure political hatred. They do it again because it is. Without any empirical information, without a single fact, creative in demeaning, insulting, but it speaks more of them who insult them than of us for putting up with these insults and we will endure them to the end and we will continue to fight under such pressures and such insults. To fight for both those people like you and those who support you, because they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we love our country and because we want to build a stable and safe Serbia, a safe and stable society, in which all citizens will be satisfied. But in a way and in this kind of political communication, it's much harder, where two minutes will be used and taught the amendment to get it in time, to be insulted, to keep someone from banging, you know, I come from a tourist place that's famous for good caterers...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34295	Mr. Granny, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34296	... And it happens to good guests that a glass falls on him, and let alone this boy who just fell down a glass, who came to work before every one of us here should respect those people who follow us, and should respect these people who work in technical services, and not belittled and insulted. We should also respect these women who will enter after us to prepare this room and prepare us to wait for us clean and ready tomorrow and those people working on security. People in Serbia should be respected, not belittled, as we saw earlier. The law that is before us and which we will adopt in the next two days, I'm sure, brings extra transparency. Transparency that is already three times better than in 2012 and for this reason, I also think because of this argument that is very accurate and supported by the Empire, this amendment should not be accepted by colleagues Veseinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34297	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becicu, the Honored Minister Vujovic and the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry. A few minutes ago, article 106 was injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, who defines that the speaker is obliged to speak on the agenda. During the session today, Mr. Becic, you have regularly warned us from the opposition that if one word or two of us step out of what is the topic of the agenda, warn us immediately and say – please talk about the agenda point. Mr Babic spoke to Mr Becic for five minutes now about everything possible, except for what Mr Becic said, which is the item of the agenda, which is the amendment that we submitted in the same text by MP Janko Vesenović, MP Zoran Zivkovic and myself. You have allowed MP Zoran Babic to speak beyond what is the point of the agenda. You never once warned Mr. Becic that you would tell him, Mr. Babic, I warned the MPs of the opposition today during the session not to come out of the agenda, and you are now constantly, in every sentence, why don't you do it, Mr. Becic? Here, please explain to me, I saw you following Mr. Babic's speech, listening, listening carefully, you noticed Mr. Becic, that Mr. Babic is not talking about the agenda point. I ask you to explain to all of us here now why you didn't interrupt at least once Mr. Babic and warn him, as you warn us, once and without us, that he should talk about the agenda point. If you could just explain it to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34299	I'll just try to explain it in one sentence. I am, Mr. Pavicevic, but I would like this to be truly understood positively, very pleasantly surprised with one of your colleagues who talked a great deal about the subject today, and Mr. Babic now, in his presentation he spoke more about... Please allow me, I have listened to you, spoken more about the subject than you have all day. Mr. Pavicevic, just you. I'm talking to you, and yet I said that I was pleasantly surprised by your colleague, who talked a great deal about the subject today. Also, Mr Pavicevic, for the sake of truth, Mr Babic, when he spoke in his presentation, mentioned everything I see now in the text of the bill, and on the agreements and on the other provisions of this amendment. At one point, he went a little off topic, and I warned him at the same time, and once again. And he ended up with arguments that made him think this amendment should not be accepted. So, Mr. Pavicevic, I don't want you to be offended by this, but I believe Mr. Babic has spoken much more in his presentation now than you have said for a large number of amendments today. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Yes) No problem, in the day for the vote, the assembly will declare itself. Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, your name is mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34300	Here's a few things. Mr. Babic was talking about the empirium. I know what an empire is, I suppose Mr. Babic knows, it's an experienced feeling. He said that some bidders went to the president of the municipalities, they said good afternoon – good afternoon, I want to get that and that job, and that some presidents of the municipality agreed to it. It's an empirium one. Empiria two is mine that some bidders do not even go to the president of municipalities or mayors, but to the brothers of individual officials, high officials, the party to whom Mr Babic belongs and say good day – good afternoon brother. Brother, if I could get this job – brother can, it costs so much and so much. That's one thing. Another thing, when it comes to love for Serbia, Mr. Babic, I have no doubt that you love Serbia and...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34301	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't speak to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34302	Mr. Becic, I think Mr. Babic loves Serbia very much and has hugged it very much, the citizens can barely breathe and beg to be loved a little less. And on the other hand, when it comes to the staff of the National Assembly, I was Mr. Becic, thinking that you were banging really, on the other hand, here are some employees at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, being interviewed and saying who values employees more in the National Assembly, whether they are appreciated by Babic or Vesenovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34303	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34304	... And let them say it. I'll take those results.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34305	Time. Thank you, Mr. Veselinović. Mr. Vesenovic, it's my fault, but I didn't want to raise any more tension, I didn't want to remind you, but I didn't give a shit when you warned a boy who was doing his job here, you warned him because he dropped a bottle at the moment. I'm absolutely sure, Mr. Veselinovic, that you see very well, especially from that position, and I'm sure you saw when the boy bent down to get the bottle he dropped and now this explanation and apology in this way is not necessary. It's always good to say – yes, I was wrong. I apologize to the person I insulted. I apologize on your behalf to another waiter who had the unpleasantness of warning him. Thank you. Mr. Granny, please, you've been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34306	Someone's my god, here's the ignorant. Empiria is a word of Greek origin, otherwise the meaning of the “science of experience” of the Empire or practical experience is knowledge based on scientific rather than on those burasers, which you are used to. Facts also on these buraser feelings, collected by experienced observation. What was collected on the portal of public procurement is not a feeling, but an exact and exact thing that has been published. You published three times less contracts, three times less transparency, three times more hiding your burazer party or whatever combinations, which made Serbian citizens more and more in charge, and you and your pockets more and more filled.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34307	The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34308	So, Article 14, a change is being made which continues to devalue the Public Procurement Act in the way it was done and in those members where the honourable minister, who is present here, did not find it appropriate to respond, which is too silent proof that it is true. And the shameful hiding behind the alleged directives, here from Brussels, is completely pointless. We have an atmosphere where a 92-member law is thrown at you during the night, and we answer it with 92 amendments in an old Bible proverb – it is deleted, and then in an individual debate, here on 13 members, we have proved 15 times that this law is the law of corruption in Serbia. What do we get in return? A silent minister, a presidency that is being made deaf or not fully aware of what is going on here, MPs of the government who explain to us the Rules of Procedure in the way that the domestic order should be arranged in some Banjska spa, and you call it reform? You call that a concern for people's money, for budget control, for the public sector, for public procurement? That's funny and embarrassing. In that law that has already passed, in a law that will allow for the exclusive illegal purchase of property by vote, I order all tenants not to appear, because this problem will be annulled very soon when the government in this country changes, and compared to this law... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34309	The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic, and together MPs Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 16th amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the people, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović and the MPs of the people Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted to them. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34310	This is an empirium on paper. This is proof of exactly the brothers and the way the contract was concluded. Black on white says that the purchases of small value, within the meaning of this law, will be considered purchases of up to five million dinars. Do the citizens of Serbia know the value of small purchases so far? Three million. So, from three million to five million we come to public procurements that will be able to be performed by the directors of public enterprises, SNS officials, so to speak, without public transparency in a non-transparent procedure. What's the reason? Was inflation, meanwhile, 80% in the last three years of your government? What changed in these three years of your government, so small-value purchases are now increasing from three to five million? Here's evidence why you put this law in the process, because of the elections, because of local self-government, because of the money in public procurement, because of the brothers, in one word, because of the brothers. Gentlemen, you can't hide this. You can't convince this and say that I don't like or hate political SNS and that the Turnover Movement has something against Mr. Babic or anyone else? This is about citizens of Serbia, black and white, black and white. Now I see that the hall is almost empty when it comes to SNS MPs, they're gone, who can watch this? Who can watch this fact stick their hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34311	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34312	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I would refer to my colleague, Mr. Janko Veseinovic, for the simple reason that this is proof of the height of the possibility of corruption, when it comes to the Public Procurement Act. Mr Vujovicu, we have been asking the same question all day and we have not received a single answer to that question. Based on what parameters and estimates have changed when it comes to small purchases and on what basis are they moved from three to five million? Is it because in health care we don't have enough means to treat? Is this because we don't have enough well-equipped hospitals, so this is how you want to speed up the process? I don't think so. I think this is only to push my hand into the pocket of Serbian citizens, and above all in local self-government in Serbia. The presidents of the municipalities, the mayors in front of the SNS will now have the opportunity to reach huge sums of money in this way, and I think this, and you know for a fact, the biggest shame of this government that passed the law in 2012, boasted that the small purchases were up to three million and that in this part the law was good, and now you change it because it's small. You're changing because someone didn't take enough for these three, here we are in the fourth year of the SNS government. I think this is a shame and this is how you alienate and rob property and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34313	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, who proposes the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34314	Until Article 15, conditions for high-value corruption were created, and Article 16 creates conditions for increasing the level of small-scale corruption. It is a perfectly logical question – what has changed in the last few months to raise the amount of three million to five million? Inflation isn't that big. It's a long way from that. I don't want to get into that subject, even that hidden inflation isn't even close to it, so there's only one rational explanation here, and that's that the appetites of money lovers, who have so far stolen at small values, have increased. Now we'd like that increase to be more intense. It's the only excuse to change this amount of three million. Small values, five million, to translate it into Serbian, is more than 40,000 euros. How can that be of little value? On what basis do you think it is completely irrelevant how people's money is spent, worth over 40,000 euros. That's how you created the possibility, and I, since you have enough clerks to check what's going to happen with the purchase of small values when the law comes into effect. There will be floods all over Serbia and God will not help the father or minister, or the Prime Minister to transfer responsibility to local self-government as it happened today at a press conference. It's your fault, whoever signed this bill...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34315	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34316	Well, here, let's let the applicants of this amendment explain to me what the difference is except for the amount? That's what MPs tell me under whose law there were three million dinars of public procurement of small value hidden from the bidders, hiding completely. Three offers, collected by phone, were enough to make public purchases of small values where even the same jobs were repeatedly inserted into three million each. And everything else in the family. Everything had to be crossed. Under this law and the public procurement of small values must be published on the portal. He can't hide. Anyone who wants to participate, without a phone and a deal, can make their offer. What's your problem then? Why are you saying it's a source of corruption? Well, no more phone deals about the price of public works. Well, do you know how many bidders they didn't even know about public works because they were small values that they were hiding from? How is it that the number of low-value public procurements increases if corruption exists? How come prices are getting lower than they were, and you're talking there was no inflation? How come we've now hired factories with 20, 30, 40 workers who didn't even know about the public procurement process? And you're saying it's corruption. Well, corruption is what was done under the old law. The 30% negotiation process, the agreement of public procurement by phone 67%, the three bids, and the three agreed – I will now, tomorrow you will, the day after tomorrow. What's gone now? Well, that's why they stopped having reasons to be three than they've grown to five. Because we have good results of the law, results you can't boast of. You're nowhere near it. Even some have participated in these small-value procurement transactions with three phone offers, and now they are attacking this law. What's the problem? What's bigger competition? What more can the company participate in the procurement process? If that's your problem, then the problem is the nagging money. Someone explain to me the essence of the public, the involvement of the public in the process of public procurement of small value. Here, if you can convince me, it's an honor. But then we'll talk again about small-value public procurement until 2012 and how much money was stolen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34317	Thank you. On the 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, MP Ivan Jovanovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On the 21st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, MP Ivan Jovanovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The word, in fact, has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34318	I thank the chairman. Given that our friend Dejan Radenkovic, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, has submitted an amendment to Article 26, I am only obliged to draw attention to the motive and reason for the amendment that I consider to make sense and to reconsider accepting this amendment. In particular, this amendment increases the actual three dimensions of public procurement or better to say – three effects are achieved. One is the effect of increasing legal certainty, the other is transparency of the procurement process itself, and the third is doubtless what the discipline of the contracting authority or the obligation of the contracting authority should public procurement be carried out in a form of public procurement per party. What's the point of this? Because it is common in practice that when public procurement by parties does not take into account the estimated value, i.e. the estimated value of public procurement, it is the fact that only the estimated value of the total public procurement is observed. What should be some kind of rule and, at the same time, from the aspect of the principle of justice, and even full legality, is that each party or, in relation to the party, does an assessment of the value of public procurement and that it is contained in the decision to initiate the procurement procedure. Only in this way would what is normally missing be achieved, which is when such cases are concerned that public procurement is carried out in real and transparent and with a greater degree of legal certainty for participants and with the assistance of specific obligations to be respected by the contracting authorities. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34319	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 28th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The 29th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted the 29th amendment. Mr. Minister, do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34320	I have looked closely at this proposal and I think that this request increases budget costs and it is not certain that it increases neither transparency nor the quality of informing people and I am in favour of not accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34321	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I find that this amendment has not been accepted by a representative of the Government. Member of the 30th Amendment in the same text was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment in the same text was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 32nd Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The amendment was submitted to the 33rd in the same text by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 34th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 35th Amendment were submitted by the MP general, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 36th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 37th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 38th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 39th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 40th Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 41st Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 42nd amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 43rd amendment were submitted by the MP general, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 44th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 45th Amendment were submitted by the MP general, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 46th Amendment were submitted by the MP general, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 47th amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 48th Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 49th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 50th Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 50th amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget, the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 51st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget, the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 52nd Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The amendment in the same text was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 54th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 54th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Mr. Minister, would you like to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34322	We'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34323	I find that the Prime Minister has accepted the amendment and the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 55th Amendment were submitted by the MP general, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 56th Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 54th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 58th Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 54th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 59th amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 60th Amendment were submitted by the MP general, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted the amendment to Article 60. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34324	I don't understand, to admit, the essence of this amendment. Why would the Committee of the National Assembly of Finance agree with the employees of the Public Procurement Authority? I think there's a standard procedure. Therefore, I am against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34325	Members of the 61st Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 62nd amendment were submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 63rd Amendment were submitted by the MP general, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 64th Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 65th Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 66th Amendment were submitted by the MP general, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 67th Amendment were submitted by the MP general, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 68th Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 68th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34326	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34327	I find that a representative of the government has accepted this amendment and has become an integral part of the bill. Also, Mr. Jovanovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34328	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of Associates, I must present here a very well-intentioned suggestion. Has accepting this amendment brought about anything that can create a problem in practice? Read carefully the last item of the amendment. I'm afraid the board may not have gone over this any further. The text stands – in the event of the discharge of the President of the Republic Commission, the President shall act as Vice-President referred to in Article 140. By law, the President of the Commission must have passed a judicial exam and no deputy is present. He can't legally change it, and there's a legal problem. Then this amendment that you have accepted in practice is inadmissible, because it will cause a problem. Only one who has passed a judicial exam has the right to perform this work and perform this function. Your proposal was far better and more correct, in the legal sense of the word, in a legitimate and legitimate sense of the word. I ask that both you and the representatives of the Committee have this in mind, so that there are no practical problems. This is a highly well-intentioned suggestion from the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34329	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34330	Thanks for the heads-up. My colleagues have already turned my attention to that. I think you should remove that grudge in another way, i.e. that both the president and the deputy have a judicial exam and that's how we get past it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34331	Thank you. I thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Jovanovic, you wanted to say something else? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34332	It's very well-intentioned. We'd better discuss it like this than get in trouble. I agree with, let me say, a compromise proposal, although it's not compromiseable, but finding a solution is that the deputy also has a passed judicial exam, but we don't have such an amendment. We're systemizing the law now, we're standardizing it, we're bringing the norm, Minister. We've had this law on Friday. It's a legal life. How are we going to give the Vice President of the Commission the status of someone who's going to do this? Then we have to start with some changes and additions to the law. We need to take care of it. I'm gonna take this opportunity just yet, since we're talking about these exceptions, to ask another question on behalf of the lawyer, that you don't realize that I'm giving up on this. Is the lawyer excluded from public procurement or not? That's what's left of an unexplained question. You received a letter from the Bar Association and you gave one green light, one positive signal to the lawyer that this request would also be taken into consideration. Is the law, as regards the provision of services, which are not in the public procurement domain under the EU directive and can be in the domain of public procurement, is it excluded or not? You can answer that question by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34333	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34334	Now that I'm here as an applicant for the amendment, I'm speaking on behalf of the Finance Committee. First, it can be interpreted like this, but we still need to know another fact, which is that the president of the committee is solving the National Assembly. It's not a fact to you, and it doesn't mean anything to you. It means a lot to me. So, when the president of the commission resigns, he is obliged to do the job of the president of the commission until his release. Since its resolution depends not on the will of the congregation but on its personal will, the Assembly and the Finance Committee can take certain actions. Now, there's a second question. How do you propose we determine the acting officer who meets the conditions during the competition? In my opinion, the competition is much more of an elimination matter in the procedure of the Public Procurement Act than a judicial exam. You can get mad at me. The reasons for the examination have been because the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures can conduct judicial proceedings for the violation of this law. Only that reason was, no other, which does not mean that again among the other members of the commission there is no person who has passed the judicial exam and the infringement procedure can be conducted. I would also like to respond to another amendment that also the minister did not accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34335	Mr. Arsic, time's up, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34336	Can they now, as an authorised representative of the proposing, or MP group?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34337	You can do it on another basis, but you'd have to get your word back. But before that, Mr. Jovanovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34338	I thank you, Chairman. Of course, with a respected fellow MP, Arsic, I will not develop any controversy, nor open a deeper debate, because I respect his views. My extremely well-intentioned suggestion was exclusively in the direction of preventing the possibility of public procurement proceedings, under the circumstances, or pesoriously speaking, to fail, because in the process of reviewing full procurement, therefore, in another degree, this particular argument, this particular fact is that a person who is legitimately legitimately represented in Article 68, which is the President of the Commission, must have a judicial examination and may be the reason on which a second-degree body will review the whole procedure for formal or legal or formal reasons, for a complete procedure to be brought into doubt. So, extremely well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34339	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34340	Well, given the circumstances, I didn't attend the session where it was discussed. What the amendment proposed by the Finance Committee says – if the President, or a member of the Republic Commission, is resolved, the new President, or a member of the Republic Commission, is elected within 90 days of the day of discharge. That's not contradictory. A second position that he says -- in the event of a discharge of the President of the Republic Commission, the president is acting as deputy president of Article 140 of the Law, until the election of a new president. Here, it seems to me, means that one who performs his duty must meet the conditions necessary to perform the duties of the president. If he doesn't, then how can he do the job of the president? Do you understand me? He doesn't have to be a deputy, but he's a seaman. It's allowed as a legal option, you understand? So this only comes into effect when there's a deputy who meets the conditions. Since you have a specific view of a deputy who does not meet the conditions, then we could, in fact, adopt this amendment proposed by Mr. Dejan Radenkovic, who says – the committee responsible is obliged to launch within six months of the appointment of the person of the perpetrator. But those two things are not contradictory. It may happen in the future that the deputy has, meets the conditions, therefore, not to be called the acting officer. Do you understand? The legal formulation can be triple, so not every deputy has to meet the conditions. If it meets, then this amendment that we have already proposed and adopted is in force. In fact, this amendment should read – if it does not meet the conditions, then it should not be called acting until a new president is found. The acting officer must then meet the requirements, that's the point, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34341	Thank you. Time. Mr. Jovanovic, we can do this forever. I'm just asking you to understand. Anyway, the word before you is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34342	Mr Minister, Article 55 specifically regulates the responsibilities of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. In Article 55, the Committee shall be responsible for all public procurement operations. I know what the problem is, but if you want to talk a lot about it, and about Article 133, it seems to me, the basic law, we can, I'm ready for it, especially for the soufflés next to you. No problem. But employees of the Public Procurement Office are subject to the Civil Service Act. This law regulates their working status in the authority of the state administration. With this amendment, we are only harmonising the Law on Civil Service Employees and Public Procurement. Nothing else, purely classical alignment, plus that there are now other related laws which are now in the process of everything we've talked about, not just the Public Procurement Act, but other laws that are the subject of this session of the National Assembly. Another question arises – how does the National Assembly, or the Committee on Finance, carry out its public procurement tasks, unless there is a report from the regulatory authority, not an independent body, as the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, what happens to public procurement?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34343	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34344	That's the problem. Stand down from the time of the parliamentary group. This amendment is nothing more than the achievement of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget on Article 55. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and the Law on Civil Service Employees. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34345	Thank you. Once again, I find that this amendment has been accepted by the government's representatives. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 68th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On Article 71 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 72 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 74 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 75 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 76 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Members of the 77th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 78 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 81 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 82 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 8rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 84 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 85 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 86th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to article 86. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 87 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go. Mr. Nejko Jovanovic, member 87.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34346	I thank you, Chairman. Of course, I'm going to be very brief so I don't take up this remaining time. Dear Ministers, you just haven't answered the question, and since we're now talking sublegal acts and some exceptions to public procurement procedures, as a representative of law enforcement, a profession that is and how interested, especially when it comes to major law offices, for this matter. All I care about is whether the lawyer is excluded from public procurement? Whether we can answer that or not, because we don't have anything systematized in this bill that it's explicitly normalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34347	Thank you. On Article 88 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 89 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to Article 89 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 90 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 91 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 92 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Debt, you have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milorad Mijatović, Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinković, Vesna Besarović, Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bošnjak, Ljiljana Nestorović, Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavićevic and Dr Janko Veseinović. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinkovic, Vesna Besarović, Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak, and Ljiljana Nestorović. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34348	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a brief explanation for the submission of this amendment. So, the essence of this article and our amendment is not what the act is actually going to be, or whether it will be an act of the Government or you as a minister. If our amendment is accepted it would then be an act of the government, and if it remains as it says in the bill, it will be some of the acts that the minister can pass under the law. This is not disputed because an act has been said in the law proposal itself, therefore, does not specify which type of act, so there is no restriction on the adoption of this amendment. What we are at issue in the government's reasoning is that this act is claimed to be in the jurisdiction of the state administration i.e. The Ministry, not the government's jurisdiction. The MPs of the SDPS cannot agree with this, even if we accept that the minister also manages public debt, the government should adopt an act and determine which financial assets are under management. So I ask you to reconsider accepting our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34349	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34350	Please, a brief comment. In principle, we should be consistent within the framework of the law because I think this law gives the ministry responsibility to manage public debt and report to the government, then the minister should adopt the act. I'm not saying it for myself and I want it, because if it's government that brings it, it's kind of taking him down. Here, in fact, the minister gets the funds, gets this committee and gets the tasks, gets the budget framework and implements that policy, and then in the realisation reports the government reports. If it's passed on to the government, then it's in this undefined relationship with all of it. I don't think this takes off responsibility from the Ministry, only it ends up, and then the government approves of the results set up, or respect for those things that are in the budget and in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34351	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Members of the 20th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34352	Here's a word of praise. Obviously, this law has written a serious hand, it is written under the watchful eye of the minister and that is why the law is good, so only one amendment has been given and it has been accepted, and I think it is essential, because in Article 41 are the obligations of the Ministry to the Government to submit a report once a year on the balance of debt. We added a new view that once a year the government submitted a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on all public debt-related data. I think it is very good, the reason that it is the control function of Parliament, that it is good for both the public and the more public, the more information that comes from the government to the MPs, and also the MPs of the opposition, thus creating smaller conditions, i.e. the missing conditions for speculation, for politicising the topic. Of course, public debt is not a question that is a matter of one party or another, of course there was an oscillation in public debt and of course there was a time there at the beginning of 2000, when it fell for a variety of reasons, which are now unrepeated. Of course he's been raised for a while, of course nothing dramatic has happened in reducing public debt in the last three years, but it's important that we get as much information as possible about why this is happening, that it's not a topic of political procedure, but that it's a topic that all serious people, and that's what should be sitting in this home, make their contribution to getting out of this problem. I already said, an idea with a fund to sell these properties that would go that way would be a good idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34353	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President, Mr. Becic, Minister Vujovic, the distinguished guest and guest, it is time for me to declare one small victory of the opposition today, honored gentlemen and tonight, because thanks to one hard work, one terrible commitment, participation and today's debate, honored gentlemen, a single amendment of the New Party MPs has been accepted, and this is respected gentlemen, only to remind you of a total 85th accepted New Party amendment, and here to remind also the MPs and Mr. Vujovic and distinguished guests, which places us on one six stable percentages of support in the electoral body of the Republic of Serbia, respected gentlemen. That's one thing. The second thing, gentlemen, respected guests from the ministry, was accepted is an amendment which, in absolute agreement with what is one of the most important functions of our National Assembly, respected gentlemen, as the central political institution in our constitutional system, and here Mr Marinkovic reminded all of us today that we always claim to be the sanctuary of political life, which is the control function of respected gentlemen. We have proposed here, and I am very glad that it has been accepted, that the government obliges itself to send a certain report once a year, which we should read here, in order to perform, respected gentlemen of this control function to a full extent. I am pleased that, by agreeing to this proposal by the Minister here, he conveyed one message to the MPs and other MPs of the National Assembly, that we should all carefully take care of the dignity of the National Assembly, that we adopt good laws here and carry out a control function to a hundred percent, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34355	I thank Mr Pavicevic and congratulate him on the jubilee. National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34356	I share the satisfaction of my colleague Pavicevic. On behalf of the PRECRET Movement, I have submitted an almost identical amendment and I have no vanity that Mr Pavicevic's amendment has been accepted. From session to session, from law to law, I give such amendments. That's what they're called. Evolutional amendments that allow control, i.e. by the Government, of what has been done in the previous year in the realisation of the agreement. I have seen such experience in some European parliaments, the minister comes and says, in the last year we have done so, in the application of this law. I am pleased, Mr Vujovicu, with all criticism you have made a precedent in the National Assembly and you are the first minister to accept such an amendment. You made a commitment that in a year he would come and tell us what happened to the application of this law. You'll be able to answer that. Is the borrowing of the Government of the Republic of Serbia 84 euros per second, is it borrowing?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34357	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, this has nothing to do with this amendment again. What do you think he's got? You are now asking questions, and it is not a day for questions from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so please leave it for Tuesday or Thursday. That's what we'll see when the report arrives. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34358	So it has direct connections. The report will find what has been done over the past year regarding the Public Debt Act. Whether the debt of the Republic of Serbia is going to increase 301,000 dinars, i.e. the euro in an hour or seven euros in one day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34359	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, I beg you, time is up. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure on the Deadening of Monetary Obligations in Commercial Transactions. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr Blaža Bradić, Ivana Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34360	Minister, I have submitted this first amendment to this Article 2 simply to define this sentence a little bit better, because in the same sentence, the bill puts the public sector and public sector entities in two different positions. It is simply that I have submitted an amendment that in both places it is called – a public sector entity, because if we say economic operators, we can say the economy sector, we don't have to have economic operators, we don't have a simple alignment, and the explanation that I got to reject the amendment is indeed, it shows that someone who gave an opinion did not even read the amendments to the opposition MPs, because this is a logical proposal that you should accept for a better understanding of this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34361	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34362	Dear citizens who still have nerve and patience to watch the transfer of the Assembly, we have submitted to Article 3 of the amendment relating to Article 4 which speaks of the deadlines for which claims between the public sector of operators and between public sector entities and between the Republic Health Insurance Fund and suppliers of the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund should be met. As you said to the Ministers in the opening statement, this law, you proposed these amendments because of the agreement and negotiations with the IMF, and one of the recommendations of the IMF in line with this arrangement concerns the need to regulate the deadlines for the settlement of monetary obligations under contracts, i.e. in commercial transactions between public sector entities, and that's all right. We suggested that the deadlines be even and that they be 45 days, and you rejected us. What's very important is two things. One thing is that you have given a special status to the Republic Health Insurance Fund, although we have been assured that there is a stable inflow in the Republic Fund and that there is enough money to finance health care in the Republic of Serbia, and here you are making it possible that only they have the right to regulate their financial obligations for 90 days, which means that what they do by contract is committed and taken goods in October of the month will pay only next year. What's very important, this contract, i.e. This law enters into force in 2016 and will be inapplicable. Why would it be inapplicable? Because it refers to local self-government. All local self-government, Mr. Minister, in the Republic of Serbia have debts to public enterprises far above 60 days. You will bring the mayors and presidents of the municipalities to receive criminal and criminal charges from 2016. For example, the city of Nis owes 400 million Mediani, 150 million heat, 200 million in public lighting, not because it doesn't want to pay, but because it doesn't have enough inflow in the city's budget. You'll put all the mayors, the presidents of municipalities who won't be able to comply with the law that we'll pass the day after tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34363	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34364	I'm sorry, you've moved very quickly to the next point. I would like to accept the previous amendment between Mr Ivan Ivanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. You're absolutely right, the newsroom's in place. So a word is added between public sector entities. Thank you. As for this second proposal, I agree with your concern for carefully reading the law. First, one note, this does not apply to old debts, but only to new invoices and we think from 1 January 2016 and a 60-day deadline we have carefully examined the situation. We think a 60-day deadline is a good time. I think a 45-day period would be harder, not easier for them, so we think a 60-day deadline is appropriate. However, I accept your concern and we will closely monitor the situation in the implementation of this law and respond adequately and in the directive is also 60 days. From there, we took over those deadlines, and everyone agreed they were real deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34365	This is not always the case, but we are making a precedent at this time, but I would ask the service only to note that the amendment to Article 2 submitted jointly by MPs Ivan Ivanovic and Borislav Stefanovic accepted the Prime Minister and to keep track of it. Since we are still on Article 3, the word has the People's MP Dr Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34366	Mr. Minister, I don't understand your explanation for how you mean to put a moratorium on debts that local self-government has towards public enterprises, I really don't know. Secondly, you know that in the Republic of Serbia, no budget is charged more than 70% and there is no theoretical chance, there is no theoretical chance that local self-government in 60 days is at peace with public enterprises, that I am not talking about other public procurements, that I am not talking about communal infrastructure where the same must be updated. So this deadline will be executed for local self-government. I accept it's the IMF, that you have to do it, but there's no way. The only way is to get local self-government to make real budgets. I haven't seen that in 15 years in politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34367	I thank you, and you don't have any more time. Your task force has no more time. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34368	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, thank you for accepting our amendment to Article 2. In this next amendment, we have set a shorter deadline for the creation of a sublaw act, simply because, in a later explanation of the rejection of the amendment, where we tried to shorten the deadlines for the application of the law on 1 October of this year, it says that entities in the public sector should be prepared for the legislative changes that are being adopted. I think it'll be easier to prepare if they know in advance how you're going to control and what kind of surveillance they can expect and that they'll be more serious. By the way, I supported this law on the Finance Committee precisely because I think that often the public sector, or parts thereof, is the irresponsible managers of public enterprises guilty of chronic indifference in certain branches of our economy. For that reason, I would like to believe that this law will fix something and that it will run for the better, but it seems to me that it will be very difficult as long as the public companies are headed by party personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34369	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34370	This is a change that predicts the start of law enforcement for autumn this year. I think it's just speeding up the application of this law and making better surveillance crucial to its success. It seems to me that those directors of public enterprises, and I believe that here all the colleagues know and who the directors are individually used for, or abuse their positions, to exhaust those who do the work for these companies, even though they have money and can pay for what is ordered. They don't do it simply to be politically important. It is a public secret that exists in Serbia, and I think that nothing will be a bigger problem for them to adapt themselves to a solution that in some way can make a lot easier, because it is often for some economic operator, and especially for entrepreneurs, three months too long to get to their money that they have earned fairly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34371	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34372	A joint comment on the previous two proposals. We can agree to apply as soon as possible, but the reality is that most of the subjects would only be ready when they start their annual plans on January 1st, they all do so. It should be a motivation for everyone to come up with plans in time, to have the plans approved. That's why we went to the deadline in January, and we thought we should leave for four, five months to spy on the whole procedure and start tracking, so we could move normally on January 1st. I think the colleagues who did this looked very closely at the whole situation. I agree it would have been better sooner, but I think January 1st is real, especially sanctions. We will start, under the quote, to follow how this is happening and, under the quote, simulate what would be the effects to implement it earlier, but the real effects, or sanctions, take effect on January 1st, or de facto 60 days later for payment between public sector entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34373	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34374	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Vujovic, on behalf of the Turnover, I have submitted an amendment to this law, but you have shown Mr Vujovic unequal criteria in relation to this law and the previous law. In fact, the public sector, i.e. public enterprises, generates a spiral of debt. Mr. Vujovicu, you can leave that conversation for later. Mr. Vujovicu, hello. Mr. Vujovicu, you're not listening to me, are you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34375	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't talk like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34376	Mr Vujovicu, the public sector generates debts. The public sector generates a spiral of debt both in the private sector and in entrepreneurs, small traders, etc. We knew that the payment deadlines law couldn't be applied without regulation of this area. Now you've done it. I'd be willing to vote for this bill, I'd be willing to vote that you're only applying the principle you applied to the previous law. So, you've accepted an amendment to the previous law to report here in a year or nothing certain that the law will be applied, or this is what you've been talking about that the public sector will carry out its obligation and will no longer generate a spiral of debt or have a negative relationship with me. I don't think this is the other one. I think it's just that you're afraid this law will not be applied, just like the basic law. Show the opposite and accept this amendment and submit a report within a year of what is to be done with the application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34377	The word is made by MP Zoran Babic after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34378	Mr. Chairman, I know we're going in, here, 10 o'clock, we're in at 10 o'clock today's debate and work, but lack of concentration doesn't mean lack of good education. We had just experienced from the MP, Mr. Veselinović, the insult of a young boy, a young waiter, now treating the minister with - hello, hello. I mean, what's next? To introduce singers here and make a pub out of the National Assembly, because this behavior is not suitable for a bar, let alone for the National Assembly. I think it's really something that has to experience a kind of conviction, a public conviction. I am not in favour of giving any reminders, there can be no warning to compensate for the lack of normal education and democratic treatment and the democratic dialogue that we cultivate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But what you must point out is indeed one scandalous behavior of Mr. Veselinović, not only in today's, but also in the current sessions of the National Assembly, treatment and the employees of the Assembly, but also towards the minister in a way that calls music, approximately, to order a song. I think it's scandalous and you have to stop it in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34379	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Veselinović after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Babić, since Mr. Veselinović points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then I will answer to you as well and ask if you wish to plead. Here you go, Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34380	I am advocating Article 106, and I ask that during the presentation of the Rules of Procedure, let me normally say that SNS MPs do not receive. So, I'm advertising Article 107 and 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34381	106th Mr. Veselinović, and now you say 106 and 1007. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34382	Yeah. So, the previous speaker, Mr. Babic, in the familiar style, the style of haughtiness, says what didn't happen. So he insults me, and thus the National Assembly. So I just did what I had to do when I spoke to the minister several times, wanting to hear what I was saying, I said - hello. It may have been rude, but I didn't know which way to distract the minister. I apologize to the Minister, here. But when it comes to employees in the Assembly, I thought it was you, Mr. Becic. On the other hand, employees of the National Assembly understood well what I said, unlike Mr. Babic, who is trying to be the head of all of us here, and we are not his employees, we are MPs, representatives of the people. So, I apologize to the minister, but I ask the minister, first of all, to answer for which he did not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34383	I thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. I do not have a comment on your injury and you have said the opposite of what happened earlier, and a comment on Mr Babić's exposure to his injury to the Rules of Procedure can only say that I am sorry, because I have repeatedly pointed out during today's debate that with more respect we are addressing the Government representative, in this case Dr Vujovic, and I have asked the MP mentioned several times to pay little attention to the address he is addressing. I can't teach anyone home-schooling, it's brought from home. And once again, he would appeal to the MPs to pay more respects to the guests who come to the great hall of the National Assembly. Would you like to make a statement to the Parliament on Vote Day? No, I don't. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34384	I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, Article 108 and 27, because I think it's an insult to be accused of defamation, and defamation has been told the truth, and the confirmation that I was telling the truth has just been referred to Mr. Veselinović's apology. It's a good thing he made an apology. And I'm sure Mr. Vujovic will accept that apology. But since when can the truth be told the truth to be boastful? On the other hand, do you know what Mr. Vesenović called for – the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted? If we know that the last speaker was just Mr. Vesenovic, he advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure by honoring you for not warning him as the last speaker that he was not in the agenda. Well, it's a scandal, please. Well, I don't understand that. So he admits to himself that he is not in the agenda and himself admitted to being arrogant, irresponsible and insulting here both the minister and the employees of the National Assembly. But in order not to go any further on this subject, we need to put an end to it, and that point is an accepted apology and we need to continue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34385	Here you go, Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34386	Thank you for your discussion. Apology accepted. The reason was a consultation on your comment. We're here because we don't have time later, we missed the chance to react, the exchange between us was about one word in your amendment that would otherwise be acceptable, and that effect of the law. I promise, we can pass the law, now it's too late to change, that we'll file a report on the application of the law, but the effects of applying the law of our colleagues said that we don't have the capacity to do so within reasonable time. I hope in a year, when we cross over and strengthen our personnel, we'll do a report on the effects. So there's only a difference in that -- we're going to file a report on the application of the law, and we're going to report on the effects when we have the capacity for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34387	I thank you, Mr. Minister. I did not explain it because I expected it to be very visible that at that time you were consulting whether this amendment was acceptable and I am sorry that the speaker did not allow you to complete the consultation and that amendment would be accepted. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular. I thank Mr Vujovic very much for the many hours you have spent answering the questions of the MPs and explaining the government's position on the laws that were on the agenda. I call upon the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Cory Udovicki to enter the O.R. We move on to the 8th point – Proposal for a Law on the way of determining the Maksimal number of employees in the Public Sector You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Just a moment, Mr. Zivkovic, for the minister to enter from the hallway. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky. Good evening. We are now on article 1 and the amendment in the same text submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, Mrs Udovicski. Here you go. I had to give Mrs. Widowsky a notice so she could follow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34388	The amendment is to Article 1 and this is the essence of this law and what we disagree with in this law, which is that from the process of rationalising or determining how the maximum number of public sector employees is excluded from the most important sector – public enterprises whose founder is the Republic of Serbia. We agreed in the principle debate and the vice president confirmed it – that there are a large number of people in these companies who are unemployed, that they are surpluses, we also agreed that these employment dynamics have been brought in very intense over the past 10 years and that this is due to party employment, as well as in the good part of the public sector. But it's completely inexplicable why does the government interfere with the number of employees in local self-government, including in public enterprises founded by local self-government or the province administration, and not interfere where there are high powers? The answer was that these enterprises were in restructuring, that they were dealt with by other ministries, that it was not the government's business. But it's even less the government's job to do kindergartens in Medvedja or to deal with a utility company in Piroth. There's absolutely no jurisdiction here. Therefore, that argument does not stand. Our amendment is to amend the text in Article 1 and to reject the public sector from the text set out in the draft law and to say in Article 2 which is not covered by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34389	Time. Thank you. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Mrs Udovici, the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, MP Zoran Zivkovic, has now very precisely explained, I think, what is the content of our amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. The content is that public undertakings should be included in what is contained in this bill. Why, dear gentlemen? Because in public enterprises, we have the most partyly brought in in the last 10 years without any merit or foundation. And now, instead of primarily dealing with those entities where we have a large number of people, who have unearthed, unfairly got jobs, that in most cases they have no qualifications, we are dealing with it, gentlemen, that we can get rid of certain numbers of teachers in primary schools, in high schools, that we can give up doctors, that these people have no jobs, and in public enterprises where the parties are the most numerous, this is not the focus of our attention and our interest. Mrs. Udovicki, you have explained why you do not accept the amendment has written that the question we propose to become part of Article 1 of the specific programme of rationalization, restructuring, etc. How, Your Honor, Mrs. Widowsky? Isn't it the primary thing to solve what's the biggest problem? Our idea was to fix this failure that you made in the bill, to correct while it's time and, Mrs. Udovici, to focus on the great ideal, justice and justice, to make our citizens feel it here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34391	Thank you. The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34392	I will once again answer, as I am in the debate in principle, to this remark. First, it is not true that the republican public enterprises are excluded from the rationalisation process. They are in the process of restructuring. Secondly, the aim of this law is that what is called the public administration in the broad sense of words or most technically in the international classification – the general level of the state, whose profits are entered into for the sake of a consolidated state account, to rationalise the part, is the state bodies and institutions they set up and agencies that have a kind of status similar to the state authorities. In principle, I agree, local public enterprises when they function as public enterprises, clearly, should not be covered by this definition, but at this point it is the best possible solution, because the control of local public enterprises, individually, by the portfolios, is not possible at this time. But, unitedly, within the framework of local self-government, putting their number under the overall maximum, only requires local self-government to take care of all employment institutions and which are budget users, either indirect, or direct or potential, which in our case is often. Also, at a local level it does not have to, those public enterprises that do well can have a certain maximum, in line with their needs. This only requires local self-government to take care of all their employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34393	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34394	The President-in-Office, a respected minister, fellow MPs, should not accept such a formulation of the amendment for several reasons. First of all, we are starting from a common assumption that public enterprises are part of the public sector and are overbooked as a result of the employment of all the parties that ruled until 2012. Since then, there have also been some number of employees who have changed. Not at that rate, like by 2012, but they were changing. By forming the Government last April 27th, we were given the Law on Government and Forming of the Ministry of Finance and that we will deal with the Ministry of Finance through a working unit for the implementation of general projects and works of public administration, we have received a united practical work and functioning of public enterprises. One more thing, I'll remind you that we've adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises here. What we now have as a public administration reform is actually the beginning, a kind of pressure, with which, in parallel with this kind of public sector reform, we are putting pressure on public enterprises to continue to deal with in an even stronger and even more restrictive way. This will require a new Law on Public Enterprises, which will, of course, go through the Ministry of Economy and through the Committee on the Business of the Serbian Parliament. What I was about to say is that in fact this is all the reasons why such an amendment does not have to be accepted now, because we are going to discuss public enterprises in general, in the way the promoter put it, just as we are dealing with several ministries, not only as the Ministry of State right now, but also as the Ministry of Economy and the Serbian Parliament together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34395	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Blaže Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34396	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, this amendment that I have submitted is identical to the amendment that my colleagues have submitted, so that I do not waste time reading it. So we asked from our parliamentary group that this law should cover public enterprises and, what my colleagues did not say, public media service. What's interesting, by this law, local self-government in Nis will lose hundreds of people, I don't want to bid, to be someone who forecasts or doesn't know what he's saying, but hundreds of people. Public enterprises that are mostly in Belgrade, RTS, which is the majority in Belgrade, local self-government, according to Belgrade Mayor, have a chance of employment because they need more people, and should be employed. It means that all the burden of rationalising budget users will fall at the bar, where unemployment is huge. I can't vote for this law and support it. I don't think it's the right thing to do, I think it's selective, it's my belief, as a folk MP, and I demand the other MPs not to accept this law because one more reason is the opinion of the unions of the government of Vojvodina and the unions of the Serbian administration who sent circulatoryly to the People's MPs a request and an appeal not to support this law because it has not finished quality social dialogue. We, gentlemen, will return you to my first words, cannot the truth of the government be the only truth, based on its authority. We must vote on behalf of the citizens of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia. So I'm asking the Minister to reconsider our amendment once more, if it's rationalization, it has to be at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34397	Thank you. Time. The People's MP, Lasslo Varg, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. He's not here. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34398	With this amendment to Article 4, we, of course, put in the statement that everything applies to the government, that for each calendar year the government regulates the maximum number of employees, so we added a system of public enterprises, a subsequent amendment to the first article. We have been given a reason to reject this, he says – the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for the amendment 5. Amendment 5 deals with the fact that colleagues from the Democratic Party have written that in attitude one is stuck and said, "for every calendar year," as well as stuck after these words, it is deleted. What does that have to do with our amendment? It says - the amendment is not accepted, given that an adequate solution has been proposed, since each year calendars will be determined by the maximum number of employees. What does that have to do with our shift? We're inserting a whole new system of public enterprises. And then you talk about reform laws. You can't read them, you can't plant them on us overnight, over the weekend, and you can't read the amendment. We gave three. It's not -- it's being erased, because some people are disgusted at it. They're essential. This has nothing to do with business literacy, let alone reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34399	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored Mrs. Udovici, honored guests and guests, respected presidents of the National Assembly, I believe that the contents of this law and the contents of our amendments deserve our utmost attention today. We have proposed, gentlemen, that this proposal for the identification of the maximum number of employees also applies to the system of public enterprises. Once again here to say, because I don't think there's any person here who doesn't agree with us in the assessment that there are the most party-involved people in the public business who have unearthed jobs, that that's why we have a large number of people who are professional, and they don't have a chance to get a job, gentlemen. The Udovici Minister, and it seems to me that the majority here will follow that approach, not make a change to that state, but what is being done? Mrs. Udovici, by not accepting our proposal, our amendment, you're fortifying partocracy. Dear gentlemen, if we're building up a partocrat, then that means there's no talking here about reforms, that this government can't legislate as a reform government, which it wants in Europe, which holds the rule of law. There is no reform if we have, Mrs. Widowsky, the continuity of the bad. In this case, the continuity of the bad means that the people who deserve it can't even approach that opportunity to compete for the job, and the party armies still get their best chance. Well, is that what Serbian citizens are supposed to get, the bill we're discussing here?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34401	Time. The word is made by Minister Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34402	I apologize to Ambassador Zivkovic, it is a mistake. The amendment should not be accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for the amendment 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34403	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34404	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Minister Kori Udovici, we have suggested that part of the sentence that reads, I quote, "for every calendar year" be deleted, so that the maximum number of employees is redeployed over and over again, without criteria. Nine to ten thousand people will be fired. It will be transferred to the back of local self-government. Is someone going to be fired because he's not politically-like? Very likely, knowing about who is in power, and each year new lists of who is a member of the SNS will then be made, who is not a member of the SNS, and apparently brings a single criterion under this law. Without any single criteria, you passed this on to local self-government and local self-government, giving broad powers and local SNS committees whom to fire and whom not to fire. To the likes and dissimilar, you share the citizens of Serbia with each other. It's a very dangerous thing so far and has never been seen before. Fifty thousand SNS party champions are employed in public enterprises, and they, I repeat, do not stand here in your bill. Fifty thousand, in the last three, and here we go in the fourth year. Ten thousand less people who work, that's ten thousand less wages. This means that in the manufacturing sector, less is produced and leads to one cyclic unemployment in Serbia. Ten thousand less wages, and hundreds and hundreds of people are employed daily. Here's the Kragujevac Electrodistribution a few days ago. I think it's a very bad way to define this, and I think that without the criteria of firing people and leaving them on the street with nothing, just like that, not that it's not just, but it's not human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34405	The word is made by Minister Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34406	On the contrary, MP. If the goal was just to lay off by party or hire by party membership, it could simply be decided by one number three years in advance and so knocked, so to speak, the law. That's not the point. As we now know much more about the structure of employees than we knew a year ago, and we know that, in fact, during 2014, since there has been a ban on employment, the number of employees in the public administration system has been reduced to an indefinite amount of time for 17,000 people, it may be possible that by improving the bill we will find that this figure may be slightly different, but the total number of employees has decreased indefinitely. We also know a lot more about structure. We'll know even more in the years to come. At this point, a very deep functional analysis of the so-called, means, an analysis that looks at jobs and what is needed and what the state needs to do, to determine on the basis of it what will be done in the second and third years of this programme and it is called optimization, not just rationalisation of the state administration. We'll try to improve how she works, even though we'll work to cut costs. How? Only by reorganization. How do we get to reorganization? Only dedicated work, analysis and gradual learning about something that no one has ever dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34407	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34408	Replica, Madam President. How much political dilettanteism was expressed earlier in...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34409	Ambassador, if you'll excuse me, just tell me who?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34410	At the presentation of Mr Balša Bozovic, he mentioned the name SNS four times.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34411	Yeah, I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34412	When Mr Bozovic said earlier that in public enterprises in Serbia also employed over the past year 50,000 SNS party champions. The first question for Mr Bozovic, let him list five names and names of those 50,000. Another question for Mr Bozovic, does Mr Bozovic know how many employees he has in public enterprises, republican public enterprises? Does he even know what public enterprises they are? I'll answer him. In public enterprises founded by the Republic of Serbia, 60,000 people are working. Imagine you on 60,000 people that you hired another 50 grand, see what political dilettance there is so beautifully wrapped in an expensive suit, with beautiful manners, but that's all there is to prove. But on the other hand, it is easy to prove how much the administration of the AP Vojvodina hired people from 2000 to the day of today and on what principle different development funds, the Capital Investment Fund, different agencies, different "Vojvodina Water", "Vojvodina Forests" were established. Who could have gotten a job in them? I'm sure no one after the competition, certainly no one whose neighbor is an advanced, but with a DS membership card, even if you're so fucked up and you're wearing some Wahhabi three-quarters of your pants on the New Sad stretch, then you'll get a safe job.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34413	It's been a while. Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34414	I thank the presidents of the National Assembly. So it's common knowledge that I'm absolutely not responding to unserious accusations and I'll leave it for another time. What is important when we talk about this law, is that over 50,000 new employees have been a burden in the public sector for the last three years, and you know it very well. I don't know why you allowed, for example, a few weeks ago in Kragujevac to sign 300 and some new contracts...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34415	Ambassador, you asked for a replica, specifically, an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34416	Yes, it is. Here, well, compared to that story, I just don't want to talk to the MP. So, I hold in my hand something that is the work of the union organisation of the Elektro-distribution of Belgrade, for example. And since I've been called to mention who these are people who are employed on behalf of the SNS. I quote that such non-planning of human resources within the framework of Belgrade's Elektro-distribution, in the long run, seriously disrupts the driveability and overall functioning of the EDB. Another thing, it can seriously be threatened by newly created personnel from the party's mentioned electricity security and the entire Belgrade city's system. So, with their personnel, they're destroying the city's energy security and security, and then you ask me how many people and what exactly are the names. Here's 300, the other day there were all the media in Serbia, 300 new contracts. So, you've left local self-government to choose whether to fire a teacher who's not a member of any party or to hold any SNS champions. That's not right, there's no criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34417	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34418	I got a negative answer to both of the questions I asked. Nor did I get the names of five out of 50,000, but that's why the previous speaker has now aerated, so he has reduced from 50,000 employees to 300 contracts. I didn't even get an answer to the question of how many public enterprises there are in Serbia, I didn't get an answer because it doesn't know how many in these public enterprises, whose founder is the Republic, is actually people, and I'm going to tell him. For 60,000 and 60,000 employees, it is impossible to employ 50,000 new ones and therefore is the ignorance and political dilettance that led the previous speaker. But that's why on the other hand I didn't get an answer whether there was any public competition for a company that was founded by the AP Vojvodina, where someone outside the party was admitted, and there was outside the Democratic Party. And there was a condition for him to get a job if he'd shake Bojan Pajtic's hand. Since the girl refused to shake hands with Bojan Pajtic, she didn't even get a contract and that girl's name is Jelena Vivot, first name and last name. I know names and names. The one you've conditioned with DS membership, handling a new-Sad-Strend flager, in the Wahhabi pants, that's a condition for getting a job. Then give me one of the competitions that has been made according to the law and how it should be in the framework of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34419	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34420	Name and last name of one who got a job in Vojvodina without being a member of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34421	It's time for the replica. Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic answered the line? For mentioning the party president?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34422	Because I don't like to talk about anyone's pants, it's inappropriate. But what I would like to say is that if anyone in Serbia is watching this transmission, if not now, perhaps in some delayed way, I think they can be happy, because I'm glad that a colleague confirmed the words of the other day – that you didn't hire anyone alive and that absolutely no one from the SNS is working in public enterprises and public utility companies and that number 50,000 Lazar Krstic said while sleeping on his pillow and not here in the Assembly and that we invented it all. And that there is an invisible force that appears and solves things, pulls a 21 instead of 27, and no one has set up the lottery in this country. There's no such thing as over 50,000 advances. There is no such thing as public enterprises in this law. We're also talking about air and pants of someone else's. And we're all on this side of a big delusion, because we don't live in the same Serbia. We don't live in the same Serbia at all. I would just like Serbian citizens to watch and listen to a fellow who keeps repeating. Yesterday he says, the day before yesterday, he says, we've been relatively employed as much as we're in power. That's how much we're guilty, says a colleague. His benchmate says we didn't hire anyone. Now the colleague who said we're proportionally heavy and guilty, says – tell me five names, there's no one. So you have an internal dialogue with you that sometimes comes out on one side, sometimes it's 21, sometimes it's 27. It's the nature of your authority. But we ask the Minister a respectable, simple thing through this question – why there are no public enterprises, why they are less important and why there are no criteria for what we are looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34423	The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34424	I'm thinking about pulling balls that I don't understand, because I've never been in a bookie or paid a ticket or that's what I'm interested in, I said today, and I'm gonna do it again. Whoever's responsible and who's guilty and what Mr. Vukic said will be his short journey to prison. The point of these very likable relationships with the pulled or undrawn balls. But by 2012, I know that by 2012, this Serbia lottery, which, nowhere in any country in this world, has recorded losses during your government and your regime, has been depreciated every year. Impossible, a "perpetum cell phone" but you've accomplished it. You've made the state lottery negative. It's like that from year to year. I repeat what I said in this room when I spoke in my last session about the Law on Public Enterprises. I'm not changing my mind right now. There are no innocents in party employment. Innocentity, or guilt, is directly proportional to the length of remains in power. The Serbian Progressive Party passed a law banning public sector employment within a year. The Democratic Party is in power for 15 years and 15 years and days, today the Bojan Pajtic regime only employs on the party key and party staff. 15 years of responsibility and 15 years of authority cannot be a sign of equality with one year. I will never agree with that, as I will not agree with you trying to transfer everything to the Serbian Progressive Party and that the Serbian Progressive Party is the only one responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34425	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34426	So you think they don't have kids. Children who do not work, the child of Ms Milanka Vukojičić, who has been a graduate economist for seven years, and you talk about party employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34427	Thank you. Borislav Stefanovic, a replica again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34428	I want everyone's child to be employed in Serbia in accordance with opportunities, schoolwork, regardless of which party the mother, father or anyone else is from. It's not a topic at all, but I just realized you pulled a 21 ball. What you just said just confirmed what I'm talking about. You didn't hire anyone. We've been in power for 15 years, so our guilt is so heavy. You came to power this morning, you haven't been a respected citizen for a year, they're in power for 24 hours, and we're 200 years in power. Since you know nothing but archaeology, you don't know anyone to hire except through a membership card. I repeat, you keep looking back, and we're hitting the lamppost, as a society, as a state. Why are you doing this I don't know? The question is very simple – we've only been guilty for a year you say and think it justifies you. Well, it's a humorous program. No one's explained to you from your advisors that it's not a good sentence, dear colleague. It's not a good sentence, it's politically not good. When citizens see it, they're bitter because you're supposed to be better, not that you're 15 times worse, as you say here. After all, you've been in power for six years, if the Democratic Party has been for 15 years. That math is familiar to me, I taught it with you. Besides, you're an engineer, you're a great accountant. The Democratic Party has been 15 years, you six, equally, exactly and everything is measureable to space years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34429	Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34430	I see that the citizens are bitter, that bitterness shows in the elections for the local communities in Subotica, and in Pancheva, so in all possible local self-governments, and even where you didn't go to elections, because you didn't have to or anyone wanted to tarnish your name by putting themselves under the slogan of a party that long ago was a symbol of corruption, crime and of the very ugly things that are happening in our society. I prefer my every lapus, there were and there was a being, but he didn't sicken any man in Serbia. Your policy, a policy where 400,000 people are out of work, our country's sale policy. The policy of turning Serbia into a Delta Land. Politics where many companies are closed. Politics where our society is concerned in all respects, but that policy has cost a lot, and that bitterness against you is something that can't be measured by either and to correct any of these populist left-wings in the House of the National Assembly. Let's turn around and look closer and further to the family. You know someone who's unemployed, but honest. Here in these benches, 99% of the people will raise their hands that someone in his family with high professional training is unemployed. You're accusing these people. You can present it to any kind of balls, but you better not look at balls, but at the head and see what you've done and admit that you're changing things before you're gonna honor us for everything, even for what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34431	Time. Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. He's not here. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lasslo Varg. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34432	I thank Mrs. Korri Udovici for having managed to find a common language, when at least this amendment is in question, and I believe that at least to one extent, very little is true, but at least to one extent and in line with our contribution that wasn't small to make this law any worse than it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34433	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. He's not here. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34434	Thank you. Unfortunately, even Article 8 would not have been able to correct some of the facts that go to the burden of units of local self-government, which the distinguished minister today at the Justice Committee has respected and I thank her on that behalf, given the fact that even during the principle debate, we have pointed to some of the problems that I do not wish to repeat today, tonight, for the simple reason that they have been accepted with understanding. I want to point out something that I'm afraid won't have time to react through the system. When I pointed out that units of local self-government that have a population of between 50,000 and 100,000, where a parameter of 11.50 employees per 1,000 inhabitants is applied, I cited an example of the town of Uzica, which is not the only example in Serbia. You mentioned then Sremska Mitrovica, and Loznica and many other cities. I turned my attention that with this parameter, 43% of the total number of employees in the town of Uzic would be less. Now there's a problem that I want to share with you, and let's see how that can be amortized during the application of this law. Why, am I asking a question? Because it is not known where the 43% procedure will be done and how the 43% procedure will allow for normal functioning of local self-government units over the next three years. Whether or not it comes to the situation to threaten the collapse of a system that is related to the service of the needs of citizens, whether or not it is a wasteland, whether or not it is other municipal services, such as street washing, the maintenance of the dump, whether or not it is other services. The problem of objective nature is related to the fact, as already since the application of this law, the local self-government unit has taken on itself a certain burden, and this burden is small to me, because it depends, on the one hand, on the act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will prescribe a monetary mass to pay off profits. On the other hand, the Užica City Assembly will have to make a decision which is the number of employees who will be smaller, 600, 20 and several, five, six, no matter, employees less, is undoubtedly one major burden for a local self-government unit. Are we going to cut by 200 this year, so next year 200 and the next 200, it doesn't reduce the burden. Why? Because on the one hand we come to the problem that we have now pointed to, which is that certain public enterprises, certain public institutions... I have to draw attention to the fact that we have system solutions both in the gallery and in the museum and in the National Theatre, etc. Wherever this 43% procedure starts, we get into trouble. Of course the number of employees must be reduced. Of course, the consolidation of public finances must be carried out in this way, and that is what the SPS and the SPS parliamentary group are unreservedly supporting. On the other hand, the question arises how do we relax the burden of not having other problems, which will certainly arise, as counter problems we will not be able to solve? During the public debate, it is said – p. Well, why are you Ubiquitouss rebelling? If you can't solve that problem, in pools or elsewhere, then hire the agencies. You, dear minister, and how well you understand that it's just clouding the problem and multiplying the problem. The involvement of third parties comes to the burden of the budget of the city of Užica, because those we will hire privately we have to pay. Is it then cheaper to pay the agency, hire privates, or is it cheaper to pay the profits, and keep the minimum employees that are scheduled, on the one hand the law, and on the other hand the standards that we have to respect and, most importantly, solve the problem of extra employees by not feeling the burden compared to the citizens. I have to repeat again, for these two days, I have had intense contacts with the management of the town of Užica from which I come, who, like the employees, exhibit a certain fear, not only in Užica, Loznica and anywhere else, who have the same status as Užice. Fortunately, we have a mayor from our coalition party, the headquarters, who also takes care of the savings, but also rigidly, according to what the government is doing. In this situation, it is literally a problem of this kind that I am personally afraid that at the level of the unit of local self-government, or the city without your help, without your support, without your participation in solving this problem, we will not be able to overcome it ourselves. In the end, if I don't owe, I don't think we have much time left as a parliamentary group, once again I want to repeat, it's not about subjectivism for me as a MP, citizen of the town of Užica and the man who represents these citizens, it's not about subjectivism in relation to the problems of that city. It is something that will be burdened by a large number of citizens in all units of local self-government who have similar status. So with this amendment, by increasing the parameters from 11.50 to 12, nothing is solved. So that amendment, regardless of who submitted it, in a specific case was submitted by the DS, for us and for the citizens of Serbia it means absolutely nothing. We have to look for other solutions. I ask you to bear in mind that those collective elements, which you have listed, also, in Article 8, in the next article, will not be very helpful, because they only refer to those units of local self-government that have between 45 and 55 thousand inhabitants, or from 95 to, as I recall, 110 thousand residents. What about this vacuum? What about this category of cities that's going to get into this problem that I'm pointing to? I have to be a little personal, most of all, the fear of the one who, from the point of view of a social aspect of observing this problem, is the most feared, and they fear for their existence, they fear for their work, they fear for their families, because to be completely honest, 43% of the fewer employees in one city are not at all, no matter how much we observe it, whether we have hired or not. I also pointed out in the principle debate, from 2013 to 2015, the town of Užice has reduced the number of public sector employees, and during this coalition, about 70% of employees are less. This does not release us, in any case, from this burden that is present, we are not free from the fear that there will be one problem that will not be solved without the help of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a citizen of Užica, went out many times and when it came to water supply, when we had no water, when we had floods and lots of things. This is not an elemental accident, this is not a natural disaster, but it is a problem that cannot be solved without the help and support of your ministry. Please accept this problem as something I tried to present to you in fact. I just wanted to say something that's justified about problems that will not be dealt with systemically at the moment, if they stay this way, but if we do, whether we're going to bring in sublegal acts that we're going to try to solve or the instructions about applying this law, then I'm certainly optimistic as well as my "Ubizens" that we're getting out of something that is currently fearsome or fear of possible consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34435	It's the vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34436	It's very important that we all know that the intention is not to do anything unreasonable. We want to improve management, business, increase rationality, and exceptions when a number can be very large for some other reason can always exist. There are two possibilities. It's either high irrationality or there's some other reason. Most of the time, it could be that some place performs functions that other places don't. Anyway, we have time to determine that. Even if it were just an irrationality problem, then we wouldn't expect it, and this law doesn't prescribe that it has to come to standard in three years. On the contrary, it is important to go to him and that those who are beyond the standard, those who are more irrational, must make more effort than those who have certainly been rational so far, because they have a much smaller number of employees. Our goal with this regulation of standards is not to be a system of lawn mowers, but to go into a fair discussion of who probably has a higher surplus, and in the first year we will not be wrong, because no one will have an unreasonablely large percentage of reductions, and by the second year, those studies that I was already talking about, we will come up with an answer to whether and what other criteria should be added and what other special standards should be developed for specific situations, for different sectors. I hope that, before the expiry of this law, local public enterprises can get away with it and go according to different regulations, because I don't think public enterprises should be subject to this kind of regulation in principle, but Serbia has no better way to solve this problem at this point. We're doing the best we can, and we're gonna keep improving the system and we're not gonna be unreasonable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34437	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34438	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I must thank you for your understanding and expect this problem to be solved exactly as you have suggested, by indicating that there is no "n" here from irrationality. There is only one set of circumstances, respect for legislation. Respect for something a unit of local self-government had to do, which is to fill jobs in institutions, as well as in public enterprises. I only mention in one sentence, so I don't owe any more, we have an internal audit, which does audit work in relation to public enterprises and public institutions, which is formed exactly what it has to do in the description of its work. Therefore, according to the number of public enterprises and according to the number of institutions, the number of internal audit employees must be as large as it is, cannot be smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34439	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korac, Snezana Malović and Blaže Bradic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34440	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, we have submitted an amendment to Article 8 and that, after Article 2, we have spoken of what is said by a respected colleague of Nedja, we have added attitude 3, which is said – the number of residents in terms of the provisions of this law includes persons resident in the territory of a local self-government unit who have a residence abroad. You refused this amendment of ours. All right, that's your concept. I'd just like to give you one suggestion, Mrs. Widowski. A little while ago, you presented the fact that last year, there were less than 12,13,000 people in the public sector with permanent employment contracts. It's not data at all, it's statistics. The real information is, this led you astray, how many people were reported to social security. You know, in the country of Serbia, people retire or come before retirement on a specific contract. I can tell you 10, 15, 50 people who have a contract for a certain 15, 20, 10 years, and so can my colleagues sitting here, they certainly know in local self-government that's the famous 10% allowed to contract at a certain time and that's how people are employed and you need to know that, you're a minister, so no matter how many contracts you have indefinitely, it's important how many people are reported to social security. That information will be given to you as minister in five minutes. So, that's an easy verifiable piece of information and there's no story, there's no fairy tale. It's a cruel truth. I don't think he's got less than 12,000 employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34441	Thank you. The minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34442	We also follow the total number of employees, not only on specific ones, but with contracts. In the next line we're going to take that number out to tell you, it's a slightly smaller number, but it's significantly reduced with those contracts. But there's something else I want to say here. We looked at both the data and the statistics, based on the list, to see if we saw a connection, an impact, between how many people according to the list were estimated to be abroad and the need for the infrastructure of a local self-government. We have to say that this is not a good indicator, because we believe that there is something that burdens the infrastructure of social and physical local self-government, which is related to it, to the population who occasionally resides there. However, the estimate of the population that is abroad, according to our assessment, includes many people who have left long ago. It's an interesting observation, I'll share it with you, that just in those local self-governments, which we know were the most evictions from them, and we see that there are a large number of residents who are no longer there, but are abroad, very often, just because they don't have the means to be irrational, the number of employees is at the border or below. So it's not in itself an explanation. We continue to investigate the data. We may be able to get to the weekends and the occasional population that comes more often, but for now the data that has entered the law, with the corrections that have entered the law, is the best possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34443	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 20th amendment in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34444	And here we come to a critical member of the 20th who, I hope, is not on purpose, but that's not an excuse, even if it indirectly creates the possibility of full relativization of this law. The fact that the Deputy Prime Minister says it's about the best intentions, believe it, deny it, in politics, in one state, it's not crucial. We're starting to think everyone's going with the best intentions, but what's really going on. Article 20 of the basic text provides the possibility, even after retirement, to continue, as they would say, the contracting of the man who left, the person who retired all with the justification that this is in order to carry out the necessary functions of the organisational form. That means there's a category of irreplaceables again. Every administration, every minister, every secretary of the administration knows who he is when he retires. It's an operation where you add up to 40 or 67 means everyone can calculate it. He doesn't have to be a genius about it, so he can prepare a year, two, three before someone has to retire an heir who, by his expertise, will be an adequate replacement. Now, Madam Vice President, you're opening up to this member the opportunity to retire two, three thousand people, which is called natural effusion, I think it's an ugly term, but it doesn't matter...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34445	Thank you. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vice President Becic, the honored guest and guest of the ministry, Mrs Udovici, in politics, the most important issue is the consequence of someone's actions, not of the intentions of respected gentlemen and Mrs Udovicsky. Let me ask you a question. Mrs. Udovicki, what is the consequence of the intention to ban employment in the public sector, for example. by the end of 2015? The result of one good intention is that it continued with employment. Mr Babic admitted it and made several statements where he said it - continued for employment, there are no innocents in party employment. Mrs Udovicki, therefore, is an important issue of consequences, not a question of intent or the same about the issue of consequences and intentions – what will be the consequence of assuming your good intentions to limit the maximum, defines the maximum number of public sector employees when you say in point 3 – especially from the attitude of one public sector employee working relationship does not stop if the employer and employees agree on a continued working relationship. Dear gentlemen, this is a pure relativization of what are beautiful words that represent one good intention, and what will be the result of such an action, respected gentlemen and Mrs. Widowsky? The result will be that it will continue with party employment. In public enterprises, we don't even have nice words to stop party employment, but it's said here – it's not the subject of this law, it has a special programme. We have to fight against partocracies in action...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34447	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34448	I have never been able to see the connection between what this member determines and what you say will be consequences, but I will explain what will be the consequences of this member. This article says that anyone who has obtained a condition for retirement should retire and retire if the job he does is not the kind that needs to continue to work. What would happen if there wasn't a member? It would happen that if a job that works falls under rationalization, that person retires and gets severance. This way, if he's doing the job he needs, he stays with the deal. If he's doing a job that's getting too big, he's retired because all the retirement conditions are up. It's very simple. Unfortunately, some of these people probably want to stay working, but they won't be able to because their jobs are going to fall under rationalization. I must add that there is nothing in life that has perfect answers to everything. There are good and bad consequences everywhere. This is definitely one member we weigh very carefully. It was very difficult to decide which is the least evil of all who have to happen in this process, but the greatest good will happen that they will have to think about each job whether it is necessary and whether it is what must remain to improve work and reduce costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34449	Thank you. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. (Blagoje Bradić, from the post: What about my amendment? ) We have been on the amendment to Article 20 submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the amendment has been exhausted and we have moved on to the amendment to Article 20, which was submitted by the Committee. (Blagoje Bradić, from the post: Before him is my amendment. ) We have no amendments between members of 20 Mr. Zivkovic and Pavicevic and the Committee. We can take a short break just to consult. [[After a break.]] Since we obviously had different data, we have on Article 20 of the amendment submitted jointly by MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradić. Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, esteemed colleagues and fellow citizens, we have submitted an amendment in the same text, where we ask that the positions from 3rd to 5th are deleted, which speak of the employment relationship of the public sector employee in the 1st position of this member not stopping if the employer and the employees agree on a continuation of the employment relationship and the length of its duration. Not to read what you've already said. You know, I think this member, with all your goodwill, is disabling in this law what you wanted to rationalize, because this is the country of Serbia. There are no extra plumbers, welders, fork drivers, truck drivers in any city's public enterprises. It's usually a surplus in the administration. In the administration that someone is irreplaceable and there is no one to take over his job, then we wouldn't have surpluses, so I think we should, or I'm convinced that you should accept this amendment and prevent the abuses that will be. That's what we'll talk about when the law starts to apply. Within three months, we'll have data on how many additional extensions of the contract to people who were supposed to retire. It doesn't have to be a party, personal acquaintance, whatever. Here on the other hand, we want to hire young people, and here in Belgrade we have 18%, Nis 37, 38, and maybe 39% of unemployed workers. I think you should accept this amendment and delete what you put in article 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34452	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Thank you. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Thank you. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Thank you. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34453	We have submitted an amendment to Article 32 concerning criminal provisions. You have suggested that fines ranging from 120,000 to 150,000 dinars be fined for a violation by the head of the organisational form if, contrary to the provisions of this law, a person is employed, or employed by a person, etc. We have suggested that instead of 120,000 to 150,000 be from 150,000 to 500,000, to deter people by repressive measures to abuse certain members of the law that we have imposed amendments that you have not accepted. I think you should accept this, because there's no reason for a fine for an executive who knowingly violates the law to be half a million dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34454	Thank you. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34455	We're looking for different deadlines for filing sublegal acts. Otherwise, I will repeat, there is a resolution on the legislative activity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted unanimously in June 2013, on the adoption of sublegal acts to the Assembly together with the draft law. All sorts of remarks that this cannot, since it is not known what the law will look like, of course it is not known what the law will look like, the bigger problem is that the proposing does not know what a sublegal act should look like the moment the bill is submitted. And the resolution says the bill looks like -- submit a proposal for a sublegal act, because otherwise there is no law. There's another problem here. We have a problem here that the deadlines for the sub-legislative acts are put in place 30 days for Article 4 and Article 6 which discuss acts of local self-government, the competent authorities of the AP, which are required to comply with their acts with the Government Act, or the Government Act for each calendar year, a maximum number of employees shall be determined indefinitely in the system of state authorities, in the public service system, etc. And now the government, as proposed by this law, says it will be for a general act of 30 days, and for the next calendar years within 60 days, from the day of the adoption of the budget rules. We ask that for Article 6 be within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, because we believe that this is a fine mechanism which will essentially not be subject to the law. And if you start counting, and if the law goes into effect on August 1st, then you'll see that by March next year there's no effect on this law. If he's not here by March, he won't be here till next year at this time. We'll all be here together next July...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34456	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34457	... And I'm going to ask what happened to the application of this law and the adoption of sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34458	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34459	The honourable Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Chairman, is approaching midnight, we are discussing amendments concerning the reduction of the number of employees and closing practically three years and two days and the world's most inefficient government. With this amendment, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, I've tried to look ourselves in the eye for a year, Minister Udovicki, to tell you what you've done, how many families are left, or people, without a job and a family without pay, because, Mrs. Udovicsky, people are neither ball number 21 nor number 27. These are people who live off their salaries and of course did not know that they would lose their jobs, decisions made both in these hours of the night and discussions that are being conducted on the laws that have been passed and proposed in an emergency procedure. We suggest, therefore, that you accept this amendment. I suggest you accept this amendment and come in a year and look yourself in the eye and say what you've done, how many people are out of work, what part of the public sector, what are the effects and effects of so far reduced wages and pensions. We don't see them. We only see less inflows, because it's less consumption and people have nothing to buy basic products of milk, bread, not to talk about other products. Mrs. Widowsky, accept this amendment and at least promise you'll be here in a year to tell me what you've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34460	Time. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Article 35. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee in charge, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal and legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Register of Employees, Selected, Unnamed, Placed and Engaging Persons with Public Resources Users You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34461	Here, Vice-President of the Government, amendment to Article 2(2), which speaks about what the register contains regarding employees, elected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons. I suggested, on behalf of the Turnover, that it also contains the legal basis by which those persons gained that status. This will be, Mrs. Widowski, your answer whether this is a cementing party employment or something else. Why, Mrs. Widowsky, is this a cementing party employment or is this something else? Why, Mrs. Udovici, did you not accept that in the register, i.e. in the register, water and data, the legal basis on which that person came to the workplace? A contest or some other basis? The competition or the fact that it writes there – on the recommendation of that and that, by name and last name? You have all kinds of data. Here, you have also accepted Mr. Balint Pastor's amendment to register the nationality information. I accept, and nationality, to write who is a Serb, Croat, etc. But I think it's much more important, you'll agree, I hope, Madam Vice President, to write on what basis, the competition of that day and that, the recommendation of that and that. Why is there no record of that? Well, because you're cementing party employment. Because party employment will continue, layoff on the same principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34462	Time. Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lasslo Varg. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34463	You have no answer, Your Honors Vice President. So it's about cementing party employment. I'll read, let the citizens who watch this transmission know what I suggested. I suggested that in the register of employees, posted persons, etc. it shall also provide information on the competition or other legal basis for the acquisition of employee status, elected, appointed, appointed and engaged person in the use of public funds. So, legal basis. You will have a register in which will be the name, last name, nationality, sex, etc., the place, and there will be no legal basis based on which that person has acquired that status. What is it, Mrs. Widowsky? What is it, but the cementing I said on the first day was this law? Meeting party employment. Cement partocracies, cementing the state's way of leading, which you've been talking about, or those who will vote for this law, that it's bad. You were saying that those before you were party employees, and you are legally introducing such a system by which you will decide who will be fired, and you will not keep a record on which basis someone is employed. And what do you prove? You're proving that it's about cementing party employment. You have no answer, it is not possible to answer why there is no section to write about – a competition based on which this employee was admitted, a recommendation based on which that employee was admitted. There's no need to write the party that suggested it, I'm not looking for it, I'm just looking for a name and name or a competition, a date, a list in which it was published, based on who employed that person.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34464	Time. Thank you. It's Mrs. Widowsky's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34465	I didn't want to answer first, because it's so absurd what you're talking about right now, but you're giving me the opportunity to draw attention to that I did in public not to say that there was party employment before us, but that in Serbia the problem is, above all, relative employment and that people who come into a position outside of party structures, and who have a very high view of themselves when it comes to their objectivity and professionalism. We're very committed to changing this, but this law has nothing to do with this. This is a law that collects information in one place about existing records. We went to a lot of trouble in the last year to make this register a little bit more reliable at all. This law will allow us to be something more reliable. He's still a temporary solution. The real thing is to actually make a register of employees in the state and then we'll have much more reliable data. That's what this is all about, and it's not about who hired, nor did Serbia's competition stop anyone from hiring a relative or a party. We'll know that we've overcome that problem once we start raising and checking the quality of our employees in the state. That's not what we're doing yet, but we're getting it ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34466	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word. You have 55 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34467	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with your team, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I agree with the Vice-President that these objections concerning the register itself are completely absurd because your ministry introduces a brand-new model, a new approach to human resources management in the public sector and the state administration. But what I would like to ask you to answer, and what has bothered me in the context of the amendments previously accepted by my colleagues from the Vojvodian Hungarian Party, is related to the item concerning the registration of national membership. You, as we all know here, are an American student and you know that in developed democracies countries, it's not common for employment, in any record, to record who is a national member, a religious identity, a union organization. That's a little bit hairy with... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34468	Mr. Marinkovic, thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34469	This is not about forced registration, but about how it's common in other countries, which is to leave the possibility to the person who is employed that if he wants to show his nationality, that is, ethnicity. We plan that when such records begin to gather, we take great care that this cannot in itself be considered a credible data and an assessment of how many members of a national minority or most minority population are in minority communities, where they are minority, so in local communities where there are minorities. In any case, that can't be enough information, because there's a possibility that people don't show up and there are other grounds by which they can, as we say, complete data and make estimates. That's something we have to go towards, within the framework of our EU accession. It is a request of the international community to create systems that will allow us to monitor whether national minorities are properly represented in state bodies, but I am going back to it again, the statement will always be and voluntarily and in itself will not be sufficient to assess how many members of a national or ethnic group in the state administration. This must be done, a proper methodology must be developed. Thank you, in accordance with international practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-29-0.u34470	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by the National Ambassador of the Master Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Professor Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the bill in particular.. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank Mrs. Widowsky for her participation in today's session. I thank the Members of the People. Tomorrow's the 10.00 p.m. session.
