ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26331	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Stefana Miladanovic and Aleksandar Senic. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on draft laws under points 6 and 7 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session by Alexander Vulin, Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Ljiljana Juver, Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, Vladimir Pesic, Assistant Minister for Labour, Labour and Social Affairs, Zoran Martinović, Director of the National Employment Service, Tatjana Prijic, Head of the Group for the Promotion of the Protection of Persons with Disabilities in the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Labour and Social Affairs, Jelena Kotevic, Head of the Standard Affairs Group at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 6 and 7 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment and the Proposal for a Law on the Use of Sign Language. Does the representative of Proposer Alexander Vulin, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, want a word? (Yes) The word has a minister in the government, Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26332	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to recommend today's two legislative proposals that are truly of great importance. One law on amendments and additions to the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, therefore, is complemented by the law adopted in May 2009, and the second is the law on the use of sign language, which is an innovation in our legislation and is adopted for the first time. The Law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in the first place aims to help an unemployed person who is on the record of our national service to spend more active and useful time on records, i.e. more actively looking for a job through the introduction of appropriate opportunities for participation in appropriate training and for a truly active job search. On the other hand, this law allows the National Employment Service to reform itself, to change, in line with the World Bank's recommendations, as well as the needs of the labour market and the needs of the National Service itself. This way we determine the obligation of every national employee, anyone who works with the parties, to constantly train, to constantly perfect their skills and to be part of an active job search. This legislative proposal also enables a more flexible approach to active employment measures, including the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which accepts the National Employment Service plan, to come forward with more opportunities, with a wide range of active job-seeking opportunities, which will certainly ensure greater coverage of the persons on our record. In order to streamline and resilient and function the National Service, this proposal also reduces the number of board members, from nine to seven. By raising the capacity of employees at the National Employment Service, I am sure that we will increase our efficiency well, but also speed up the possibility of our employees meeting the needs of the users. What is standing before us and has already begun to happen is also a certain degree of abuse that we could really see in practice. As you know, a law on the completion of privatisation has been passed, a law by which a certain number of workers will have to be excess. Of course, no one will stay on the street, that is, the policy of this government, for each of them is an appropriate social programme, an appropriate severance. For that, otherwise, 16 billion dinars are foreseen in the budget this year, but there are certain restrictions. One of them is that one who receives compensation, i.e. obtains more severance than the Labour Act, which is mostly practice, does not have the right to go straight after that to the National Employment Service and get compensation for unemployment. In practice, this is already happening to us, to conclude a fictitious working relationship contract, which, as a rule, lasts, believe it or not, between two and six days, is such an average, and immediately goes to the employment service. And you got severance and you're still 12 months on the state's register, and that money would have to be needed by someone else, and it has to be assigned to someone else who really needs it. This is how we solve this problem. Also, as a very important thing, here, this bill also regulates the way in which the basics are calculated and the way in which money is paid itself. So far, since it has not been precisely regulated by law, we have had frequent court disputes where the value of the court dispute was 100 dinars or 1,000 dinars, but the costs, compensations for lawyers, etc., have repeatedly exceeded the value of the court dispute. Once this is settled, it will never happen again, and that unnecessary outflow of money will finally be prevented. Furthermore, these proposed amendments also determine that the registration of the taxpayers for unemployment contributions will be kept on the basis of the data to be downloaded from the central register. And so far it has been foreseen by law, but in this way we simply specify it, so this obligation and this possibility will be implemented more quickly and more precisely. The proposed law has a total of 20 members and contains indeed only the necessary changes. We think that this way we can do this matter better and feel it right away in real and everyday life. The law on the use of sign language is for the first time in our legislation. Never before has the state had time, interest or need to regulate this very important matter properly and regulate it legally. According to our records, or records of the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Serbia, 20,000 deaf and 30,000 deaf live in Serbia. It's possible that this number is significantly higher. In any case, this is a way for people with disabilities to get a law that allows them to be included daily in society. It is their right to serve in their natural language and that natural language, for them sign language, be part of everyday life. Like when we talked about the Law on the Use of the Guide Dog, so one day we may have the honour of sitting in these benches as an MP who will move with the help of a guide dog, perhaps one day we will have the honor of sitting here with us an MP from the ranks of deaf or deaf who will have the right to use an interpreter and use sign language at this session. It wasn't planned until now. Serbia is not a country of systemic discrimination to anyone, on any basis, nor for persons with disabilities, but laws, such as the Law on the Use of Sign Language, are our way of making it possible in everyday life for the people we place in deaf and deaf to do all the regular jobs and tasks that you and I can do in the absence of other means of communication. What is also very important, except for the introduction of sign language into everyday life, is that sign language interpreters finally become a profession, finally becoming a profession. They will be recognised from now on in the official nomenclature, but the way they are called, as they are trained, will also be arranged, as they can convey their knowledge. The law has passed a public debate. Some have been respected, some have not, all the relevant organizations. What we're looking for right now is already in 81 local self-government, but this gives us the opportunity for other local self-governments to be involved and that in everyday life our fellow citizens, people with this kind of disability, become part of everyday life and that their lives are really relieved. We can't fight every handicap, but with injustice and discrimination we certainly can. This is the way we're doing it right now. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these are laws in which there is neither politics nor ideology. These are laws that change and improve the daily life of the good part of Serbia. I'd like to observe them that way. Thank you for your attention, and we're going to have a debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26333	I thank Minister Voulina. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has the national letter Anamaria Vicek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26334	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister and Associates, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, we have two very important laws ahead of us, as Mr. Minister has said, and I would like first to say a few words about the Law on the Use of Sign Language. The important thing is that today is before us this law, and as early as April 2013, it has been published in various media that this law will be passed by the end of 2013. But as we can see, it took quite a while. It is significant that this law is in front of us today, because according to data from the Association of Deaf and Deaf at local level, there are today about 30,000 deaf and 100,000 deaf in Serbia. The spectre of deaf and deaf problems is pretty wide, but problems are multiplying because of their inability to communicate with the environment. To remind ourselves, in 2009, a pilot project was launched that was now expanded throughout Serbia, and thanks to the first four years, more than 40 offices were opened for sign interpreters in local communities, which help deaf people access everything that matters to their lives. This law regulates the use of sign language, the right to learn sign language, the right to use and use, sign language interpretation services and measures to encourage application and improve sign language needs through information and education in sign language and other. It is significant that in Article 4, when describing the right to use sign language, it is indicated that parents have the right to do so in addition to the child. In fact, so far, parents of children with hearing impairment have mastered sign language from their children or from teachers of their children, but on a volunteer basis. So far, there has been no such network to help parents master sign language. Since this item will now be in law, i.e. that besides the child and the parent, the guardian can master sign language, we hope that the funding of the teaching of the deaf person's family will also be somehow planned in the budget in the future. As Article 5 contains, sign language can be learned in two ways. One is in education and education institutions, where knowledge, skills and skills are acquired in order to acquire key competences in achieving opportunities for personal, professional and social development and continuing learning. It can also be learned in institutions where the ability to use acquired knowledge, skills, or attitudes necessary to carry out the work activities of interpreting sign language and acquire professional competences to perform character language tasks. In particular, Article 6 describes the right to use sign language interpreter services in such a way that the deaf person who uses sign language communication can exercise the right to a law-based interest or exercise an obligation, has the right to use sign language interpreter services. In public service proceedings, i.e. National authorities, autonomous province authorities or local self-government units have the right to use sign language, and the sign language can also be used in political life, at meetings and meetings of public authorities, as shown in Article 8. It is commendable that the law also contains the use of sign language in educational institutions. In fact, Article 9 says educational training in education and education institutions, but also studies at a higher education institution can be performed in sign language for deaf persons. In the process of achieving this right and the interresor commission has a significant role to play. Namely, it is a commission that recommends whether a child is educated in a segregated or inclusive environment. It is significant that the deaf person, in accordance with this law, Article 10, has the right to use sign language with the employer in the course of employment and work, in the conduct of job talks, in the conclusion and cancellation of work contracts or other out-of-work relationships contracts, professional training and training, volunteering and others. On any basis, as long as there is an objective need for such a service, and in any case when employees are given information that could affect the process of work and their position, it will give deaf people equal chances on the labour market. So we come up with one important question, which is how we use sign language service. In fact, Article 11 describes that a deaf person, in order to use sign language interpreter service, submits a request to the Association of Persons with Disabilities in the territory of local self-government and provides an interpretation service if available by means of the service. However, if the Association is not able to provide this service because it does not have the means, it shall forward the request to the Association which deals with the protection of the deaf and if it has the means in accordance with the law for those purposes, it shall provide for the use of sign language interpreters providing the service closest to the territory in which the deaf person is resident. The issue remains open – what happens if neither the Association nor the Alliance has the resources for this service? Accordingly, there is an option in Article 12 that the service may also be provided by other associations dealing with the protection of deaf persons, in accordance with their objectives, or later in accordance with Article 15. – The Alliance shall address the Ministry responsible for the tasks of improving the protection of persons with disabilities, in order to ensure the development and use of sign language interpreter services in the required scope. However, in relation to this provision, but also to the previous one, a question is raised within what time-limit the Association, or the Alliance, has an obligation to provide a service, since so far this law does not contain, or should be forwarded, and unless it is unable to provide a service, there is a question within what time-limit and how the Ministry should provide conditions for the use of sign language interpreter services. In Article 13, we find an interesting item, namely, sign language interpreters' service is achieved by direct address to the public service, which is required to provide this service by an employee who knows sign language, and if there is no such employee, can provide an interpreter for the sign language on the asset of that service if the Association or the Alliance does not have the means to provide that service. So we come up with a very important item, namely, Article 14 that regulates sign language service with the employer, provides the Association or the Alliance, again depending on whether it has the means in accordance with the law for these purposes, but in any case we consider it important that the funds for sign language service are not provided by the employer, which is good, because the employer is not burdened, and thus the employers may also be motivated to choose deaf persons in employment, which certainly improves the chances of deaf persons on the labour market. Important provisions are also contained in Article 16. In fact, it has been formulated to provide funds for the use of interpreter services, which are resources from the budget of the Republic of Serbia intended to finance organisations of persons with disabilities and other associations, all with the aim of improving the socio-economic and social situation of persons with disabilities, more specifically, in the context of funding of a social protection institution or other social security service provider. It is also significant that, on the basis of Article 17, media service providers are obliged to look at opportunities and work on creating conditions to facilitate the monitoring of audio-visual media services through interpreters, which can otherwise be seen in public national media services. Namely, a sign language interpreter appears in the National Television in the course of “Dnevnik” or “News”, or another variant is when the shows are titled so that the deaf can monitor emissions of public importance. As regards the measure to improve the use of sign language, which is contained in Article 19, that all authorities responsible for improving the position of persons with disabilities, such as public service, ministry and other bodies, as well as scientific educational institutions and cultural institutions, should, in their capacity, look at the needs and develop opportunities to provide evenly fast and efficient services, and it is important to mention the development and promotion of sign language, and not only the Serbian sign language, but also the sign language of national minorities. Interestingly, a sign language of national minorities appears in this bill of law. We are not sure how this happens in the case of other national minorities, but in the case of the Hungarian national minority, there is practically no special sign language in Hungarian, but children with hearing impairment who attend teaching in the Hungarian language use Serbian sign language. They use a manual that contains images of certain characters with a Cyrillic letter underneath these images, so it's an interesting state and perhaps in that direction you should consider a little bit. In the end, I'll just say a few more sentences about schooling children with hearing damage. Although inclusive education in Serbia is practically mandatory, there are examples of extremely good practices with special schools for deaf and deaf, however, there are also good examples of practice in regular schools when children with hearing impairment are found in inclusive education. However, there is often a problem that teachers are not prepared to do so. So the entire classroom should get support in mastering sign language. Of course, in the end, I would like to conclude that the SVM and this law supports it. Now, I'd like to say a few more sentences about the amendments and additions to the law that we have ahead of us, about employment and unemployment insurance. The SVM will also support this other law in the voting day. Before I go on about some details, let's remind ourselves that the current Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment was adopted in 2009 and amended in 2010. I'd like to highlight a few reasons why it's important that this law on complements and amendments is ahead of us. In recent years, we have faced difficulties, i.e. obstacles to the implementation of the law, and the law that is before us essentially more detailedly settles certain issues in order to more effectively implement the rules in practice and through the regionalisation of the National Employment Service, i.e. the redesign of active employment measures. This law also proposes to reduce the number of members of the National Employment Service from nine to seven, and thus proposes measures to raise the quality of work, by raising the impact of staff advisers at the National Employment Service. With the support of the World Bank, the process of creating measures and active employment policies, better analysis and use of existing data is improved, as we heard from Mr. Minister. The amendments and additions they aim to streamline and are introduced as austerity measures in Article 12, namely, the nine-member Management Board of the National Employment Service shall be changed to seven members, and the composition shall remain the same, i.e. Three members propose a Social Economic Council and four members of the minister responsible for employment. Article 2 The draft law is complemented by Article 18. A law relating to the duties of staff of the National Employment Service for permanent professional training in order to improve the performance and quality of employment operations, as well as to develop the competences needed for work, in accordance with general principles and standards. It is positive that from now on it will be a national service's duty to provide and organise a programme of introduction into the employee's work, as well as professional training, as well as to verify the professional training of employees, based on the general act on the procedure, content and training programme and training of employees and the introduction of employees. It is also important to define other employment-oriented measures by supplementing Article 43 more flexible. There's plenty of room left for variations. This is absolutely justified if we consider that the employment plan in the ministry is brought on an annual basis. In Article 4. The bill of the word: "material security" is replaced by the words "money-social assistance", which was needed to comply with the Social Protection Act, which is certainly commendable, since, however small changes are necessary, the laws must be harmonised with each other. Article 5 The bill proposes significant additions. In addition to the fact that the unemployed are obliged to accept the appropriate additional education and decision to be referred to by the National Employment Service, it is significant to add that the aim is to ensure that the unemployed do not have any additional costs, but that the National Service, in addition to paying mandatory textbooks and transport costs, will provide financial assistance, depending on the conditions laid down by the General Act of the National Service. We need to isolate the amendment to article 69. It often happened that it did not know exactly what the basis was, since it is not the same if the employee had paid the profits or if only contributions were paid or nothing was paid. In this article, it is now in line. It is also important to note Article 11, which complements Article 75, which regulates those cases when cash compensation is paid, suspends, such as the duration of the temporary and occasional contracts, service or service of the military term, maintenance of the prison sentence, and adds: "and the duration of detention" of six months. I would like to remind you that for many years, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians has been seeking to make the social protection system fairer and, for example, deny the possibility of multiple returnees in committing crimes to receive social assistance. Also, I would also like to point out at the end of the Regulation on Social Inclusion Measures by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in October 2014 and thus create the possibility to introduce compulsory participation in programmes of various public activations, such as education, treatment, socio-helpful work and employment to full-time users. It would be interesting to hear from Mr. Vulin, when an opportunity is created, what experience is there in the implementation of this regulation, since it has been six months and positive results could be expected. Once again, I would like to point out that the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians will support both laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26335	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26336	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, you spoke relatively briefly today about these two draft laws, which are on the agenda, five minutes on the amendment and addition of the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment and only three minutes on a new law, which is first passed, the law on the use of sign language. And I don't know how to understand that inactivity, yesterday your colleagues, Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic and you today, are you under the impression of the cover of the tabloids that I see your mandate ending these days, or may you be engaged in promoting the government's results over the past year, so you haven't better prepared yourself, to tell us a little more about the laws that the Assembly needs to adopt. The MPs here speak much more, although they had much less time to prepare for these laws. These two laws you represent today in front of the government were both sent to the assembly procedure by emergency procedure. What was not clear to me when I read the Bill on the Use of Sign Language is – why emergency procedure? The explanation explains why an emergency procedure – because in the December assembly procedure it was the law on the use of a guide dog, so it would be good to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26337	Mr. Djurishic, just one piece of information. There's been an emergency procedure. We're not doing an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26338	Here, it says - to bring in an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26339	He entered the emergency procedure, but an emergency procedure was removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26340	You let it go when you take it off. I can't follow that. So you sent these laws by emergency procedure and I wonder why? So, the Law on the Use of Sign Language was held in 2013, May, June, July, a public debate. I don't see anything urgent in that, except for the way the government and the Assembly work for the past year. Perhaps it is an opportunity to talk about how this congregation worked. In this second law, on amendments to the Employment and Insurance Act, you yourself said – an emergency procedure, no public debate, but you communicated with interested parties. I find that communication interesting, too. It's probably this commendation yesterday that I could see from the representatives of the Union of employers working with the ministry in the last year. I believe that they are very pleased, because by amending the Labour Law, the Government has dissuaded workers, given the employers the opportunity to make workers much easier to lay off, to pursue their rights, and probably this change to the Board of Directors is rewarding employers for that praise and for that support. So, the board of directors, which is being amended by the bill, speaks here from nine to seven members. In the previous Management Board there were four members appointed by the government, four articles come from the Social Economic Council and the Director of the National Service was the ninth member, now it will be seven. So there are no directors, and they are shrinking by one seat representatives of the Social Economic Council. The previous law said that the four would include two employers and two union representatives. Now it doesn't say anything. So it's going to be either three members of the employer's office or if the minister wants to respect the form a little bit, it's going to be two. One relationship, quite certainly in favour of employers, because they praise the government's work and must somehow be rewarded. So that's the big left-handed minister's concern for work and employment and his relationship with the unions. The minister said little about what he said in the light of the law – this law will encourage people in the National Employment Service to actively seek employment. Well, I'd like to see what kind of work they're looking for in Serbia. What jobs do you open? What's going on in Serbia? Yesterday we could see how the German businessmen saw the situation in Serbia and see their assessment, that they were pessimistic, that they assessed the working conditions of the past year badly. To talk about how four factories that wanted to come to Serbia and open jobs ended up in Macedonia. That's the result of this government. You ministers like to brag about the downfall of employment and here we had this debate, then I had to find the paper, because you didn't believe me. So, a statement: "Employed in the Republic of Serbia in 2014, the annual average of the Republic Statistics Office". You can see, from January 20, 2015, it means it's been downloaded from the site. This is how it begins - the total number of formal employees in 2014 was 1,697,686, down from 1% compared to 2013. So it's statistics on the number of employees in Serbia. These are the results of your government's work. I know, you're going to tell me that the survey on the number of unemployed says that the number of unemployed has fallen and that poll, if it's true, and it shows these data, says, one conclusion that can be carried out from that survey is that the number of black employees has increased. On black and that stood when we adopted budget rebalances in October of the month, in the light of the Rebalance proposal, it was said that the increase in the number of formal employees and the reduction of the unemployed results of the increase in the number of employees to black. Given that under your Ministry, the counter-working intelligence was one of the priorities that we heard in the Prime Minister's exposé, not a full year ago here, I don't know how you're going to boast of that result. So, this law did not have a public debate, I'm talking about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Law in the event of unemployment, but the Government has provided for a further reduction of the right to material gain for those people who are going to be out of a job this year. So, not only are the people in the restructuring companies, whether their number is 50,000, 40,000, 80, we don't know, we know that 16 billion dinars are foreseen in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but this isn't just about them. Amendments and additions to the Law prepare the ground for the dismissal of people in the state administration and talk about what rights they will have, what basis they will have for the calculation of cash compensation and how they will be able to obtain the funds they belong to under the Law when they are out of a job. Those funds will be less than a year ago. First, because there are fewer salaries, so there are fewer basics, so there will be less compensation. Then it will happen that they will receive perhaps more than that minimum amount of 60,000 dinars, yes, so they will not have the right to compensation received by the unemployed. The minister has already seen abuses occur in practice, and now, with amendments and additions to the law, he has prepared an opportunity to prevent these abuses and that is good. It takes this little bit of money to split it evenly, but we think one thing was done wrong. The law foresees that when an employee stops working, and the employer has not paid his salary, a minimum wage is taken as a basis for calculating the amount of cash compensation in Serbia, rather than a contract of employment with the previous employer, which is our proposal. What does that mean? The employee was supposed to have some salary, the employer wasn't paying him, he wasn't paying taxes or contributions, that debt will remain between the employer and the state. If and when it will pay, we can't know. The state has the mechanisms to charge for it. The one who was in that unfortunate situation will now rather than be accounted for, even if the value that the state may charge, taxes and contributions will be accounted for by a minimum profit based on that minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia, a certain fee. So, twice it'll be damaged, the state might charge, maybe it won't, we can't know that. We hear about great payout results, tax hikes, contributions. The IRS is working. Honey and milk. But the price here is paid by citizens, i.e. those who do not have the opportunity to protect their rights, in this way double or I say more times there is a reduction in what they should get, means they will go away and receive the minimum wage in Serbia, and not according to what they had in the labour contract, and we think that this is bad and that the solution in the law should be so that, as a basis, they take that amount from the contract of work that each employee has, and should now have it after the changes are made and that they know where that contract is and everything else that we had here in the debate when we adopt the amendments and additions of the Labour Act. In any case, as proposed by the law, our parliamentary group will not support it. We have given a number of amendments, I am personally very skeptical of the possibility of these amendments being adopted, but at the very end of the line all of what we are doing as a government and we as MPs in parliament, remains somewhere recorded and I am sure that citizens will appreciate it in the future. Let me say a few words about the Sign Language Act. It's a good thing one of these laws is passed. The fact that he, above all, comes from several constitutional principles of the prohibition of discrimination set out in Article 21. The Constitution, the right to dignity and the free development of a person, Article 23. The Constitution, the right to freedom of expression and the right to information, Articles 46 and 51. The Constitution and the right to work and the right to education. That is, we believe that this Law is not fully worked out, that some important things have been missed to find themselves in this law and there are shortcomings. First of all, the position of interpreters is not defined by their rights and obligations, ethical rules, training, the register and the right to compensation for work. The registry does not exist in the bill and we believe it is necessary. Also, my previous colleague spoke about the means of recruiting interpreters, engaged through the Alliance, so that interpreters can engage as much as the Alliance has the resources. Thus, the Law does not clearly provide for what means to be provided. The alliance has sources from which they will know and be able to plan their obligations, it is left to be able to have or not, which we think is bad and unserious for one bill. We feel that the question of sign language has not been done well enough. So what we're talking about is, first of all, we're thinking about learning sign language in adults, as well as the question of using sign language in the exercise of rights. It does. The promoter predicted that a deaf person only when he was unable to exercise his rights by some other kind of communication, then he could use the services of interpreters, which we think is a bad principle to move like that, we think that the principle should be to enable everyone in advance not that some person must prove that he is unable to consume his rights and only then to provide an interpreter. We also consider it good that in certain parts of the exercise of the right to work, an interpreter is provided, but we have a dilemma about whether it is enough for these areas only, meaning when the employment contract is concluded or some other contracts, whether the law could have foreseen and extended the right to use interpreters who need it in the exercise of the right to work. In any case, one of these laws, I believe, when it comes to living in practice, will experience changes, that what we may not be the best way to do right now, or the legislator did not best predict, that we will learn from experience, since this is the first time that one of these laws is passed, which we support, but we believe there are many general places in this law, many rights for which there are no clear mechanisms for using these rights, that it is not clearly defined financing the achievement of all these rights, and that these 50.00 people, as the minister said at the beginning, who will be, I say, the primary users of this law, in order to enable them to have a better quality life and better inclusion in Serbia's social life, that this law will be needed in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26341	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26342	They say Walter wrote to one of his friends – I don't have enough time to write to you for a while. It's short spoken when you're ready and you know what you're saying. You can fall asleep in words where you say absolutely nothing, all MPs have received all relevant information, I will not direct them to read, it is their right and not to read their right, but what you have heard from me is the essence of the law with all the precise provisions of what will and for what is changed. This law has 20 members, I'm talking about the Employment Act. I guess then everyone, counting on the final provisions, should count on it when what's going on and when it's starting to work. So, if it measured the value of a law that the proposing speaks for hours, I'm not sure that would be a criterion for this law, it's too short, but it's essential, accurate, precise, just like what I said. If it's his only grudge or his biggest grudge, I'm more than satisfied. Yes, they should be prepared for the sessions and if some of them were prepared for the session, they would know that the socio-economic council determines how members of the socio-economic council are delegated to the board of directors of the National Employment Service, the PIO and all other boards of directors where the social economic council participates. So it's not a good will for any minister, it's the law. The Social-Economic Council itself decides who and in what proportion, and there is good practice that says – two representative trade unions and one representative of employers. It was supposed to be prepared for that, but it's better this way to attack, so what now, who's going to listen to the arguments. At the end of the line, it doesn't matter, either, but it is important that we also have this composition of the board of directors, for example. with PIOs which are almost identical agencies, i.e. have a similar position in our legal system. When you have seven in PIO, you have seven here. So we cut from nine to seven, there can't be anything wrong and so far the government has always had most of the board of directors of the National Employment Service. So far it's been five four, now it's four three. We corrected one mistake that the lawmaker should have considered immediately, how it was possible for the Director of the National Service to sit on the board of directors who decided on his work and it did not bother anyone. You see, we abolished it, and the same director, of course, was appointed by the government. So, the government has always had a majority, which you will admit and logically, because the government is funding the work of the National Service. When it is already funded, it is logical to decide how money will be spent and in which direction national service policies will be conducted. Here, let's say we changed the anomaly and we think it's a good thing. Too bad it never happened before. It doesn't make sense for the director to judge himself how he works and how his service works, but we certainly changed that, too. To get ready, he'd know that he can't pick up chicks and frogs, that he can't do a job survey and a labour survey, that they're not the same thing, they don't refer to the same data, they don't refer to the same people, but does it matter? It's important to say some information so let it echo only if it's a criticism at all costs. Here I'll accept that you, all right, are those who say unemployment is growing, it's all right, there's only one small problem, there are tens of thousands of people who pay the PIO fund. It's probably some ghosts that someone's funding from somewhere and then these ghosts come to the PIO fund counter, sign up and pay for their pension. They don't actually exist, but there's money that they invested. To make an argument, this is money, this can't be changed, this can't be fooled. No survey, no different interpretations, the amount of money paid into the PIO fund increased by 8% in the first three months of this year compared to the same period last year. Count also that we cut public sector wages by 10%, and the public sector is the largest part of the payment to the PIO fund. We've cut that down and there's an increase in the amount of money that goes into the PIO fund by 8%. How if new people who work didn't show up, how? Where did that money come from? Once again, since everything has to be argued, I stick to it precisely, let me tell you, here's to take the data on March 31st, 2014, in the employees on the PIO fund records who regularly pay their contributions, there were 2,003,498, exact figure. April 20. In 2015, 2,062,856, so look, this is an increase of nearly 60,000 people. So 60,000 people pay contributions to the PIO fund or there's no such thing as a good villa paying for them or getting a job, there's no third explanation. This was to be prepared, and it should be accepted and admitted. If you ask me, am I satisfied with this? No, it has to be more, it has to be faster. You could have also said when it came to what German investors think that 88% of German investors would have stayed in Serbia again and would have reopened the business in Serbia. Eighty-eight percent of those who have already worked and worked here, and 100% of those investors you so regret when two or three companies leave say the Labour Act is the best thing that's happened to them, 100% of them. Say it to the end, say it: it is good that they go, what they consider to be a very good labour law. Incentive them to leave, that might not be a bad idea. The labour law is as good as you know, and besides reading carefully what the social-economic partners and trade unions have said that communication is better, that co-operation is much better, that unlike the times of some previous governments, when social-economic council sessions were held once a year, I repeat once a year, only in this year has three meetings been held, and we have daily communication. All right, it's like he's bothering himself with all these details. As for the Law on the Use of Sign Language, I'm glad you'll support it, you should support it. This law could have been passed and much earlier, not brought in, there was no desire, no will or need, I don't know what the reason was, but I know we started something. If there are mistakes, they will be corrected. Let me tell you, what we're talking about is already working in 81 local self-government. I want it to work in every local government, but we need to be rational. There are local self-governments that do not express the need for a service like this. We'll use modern technologies, not everything has to go out of the budget. Just these days we are in negotiations with some big telecommunications houses that want to be donors to our project "Cola Center", so people who can use sign language will be able to use modern technology funds to use interpreter services. So that's going to work, too, but we're going to have a good debate with this. And what I said was exact figures, 2,062,856 people pay in this country a contribution to PIO and that's a success and that's an increase of 60,000 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26343	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Did you mention one word? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I was misread. Mr. Djurishic, you know very well that there are no conditions for replication. You have no right to a replica. The word has an authorised representative of Mr Zlata Djeric's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26344	Dear fellow Members of the People, today we have two government proposals - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment and we have a Law on the Use of Sign Language. I always say that the life of the law imposes its changes and the more often we change some laws here, that's proof that we coordinate life's difficulties and inconsistencies with legal regulations, and we could say that it's actually a good desire for modern society to make it the way it is to be man-made. We have a proposal from the Government to do what needs to be done in the current legislation to amend, so in the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, so what needs to be changed and I assume that the Government will also carefully consider the proposed amendments to the MPs and in the best way adapt this proposal to be beneficial to citizens, especially to the unemployed people who are currently a sensitive category of the population. So these are the ones who are able to work, and for various reasons, the social circumstances and all the other circumstances that have hit us, do not use their constitutional right, the right to work. The harmonisation of some members is dictated by living needs and other regulations. So, in Article 1, we see as one of the good solutions that the number of members in the board of directors from nine to seven so far. We think it'll be both effective and effective. We'll certainly be able to track the results of their work. The National Employment Service is provided for in Article 2 to ensure professional training and training of employees. It is also taken care of both the necessary means and the costs of transport, and that is all foreseen. In Article 4, a termological alignment was carried out, so that the material security so far is now called monetary social assistance. When it comes to termological harmonisation, we can reach some consensus there, although I think this is now a more accurate solution and closer to the content of the concept it carries. The papers we welcome, which are prescribed by this law, are those which concern the greater responsibilities of all partners in the employment mediation process, so Article 12 of the regulation that the state must first of all protect itself against the abuse of its good intentions in the event of unemployment and those resources that it grants as aid on this basis, in which case, when abused, they must return. It's something that's very important and very important that it exists legally dertified and applied. It is a serious instrument that requires mutual trust and mutual responsibility of an unemployed person and a state that stands as a guarantee of his rights and we must understand that every right comes from some obligation. That's the way it is in this case. If we want to have a socially responsible society, we have to have a shared responsibility, and above all, personally to the commitments undertaken, in this case by material means, and then we can also use acquired rights. We see one special responsibility to the budget, because this assistance is allocated from budgets, and budgets are realised by, or filled with, working citizens. Therefore, it is a responsibility to employees who are in this way in solidarity helping those citizens who are unemployed. Article 13 allows for a type of tolerance in the case where an unemployed person is temporary and justified in the inability to fulfil his obligation. Article 15 allows data control, which is carried out through the central register of mandatory social security, and that is nothing in our opinion at all. I would point out the importance of Article 16, which provides for employment abroad, which is otherwise very attractive from today's economic point of view, because it is considered and is very cost-effective, so the intervention of our people abroad will be supervised, it is a better expression than to say – controlled, in their favour, so that they will be taken care of as workers and will be aware that at all times their state of Serbia stands behind them. It is also for a foreigner who employs in another country of our employee certainly a matter of a respectable relationship with our country. The other members who are scheduled to amend shall regulate the harmonisation of acts of the National Employment Service with other amendments and additions and shall allow for the reorganisation of this service. These were all the reasons why we defined ourselves as a parliamentary group that in the voting day, with perhaps some corrections to the amendments, if the government finds it appropriate to accept an amendment somewhere, we as a parliamentary group have not given any amendments this time, we have not seen any reason to, support it. As far as the Law on the Use of Sign Language is concerned, it is a law that we feel is unreservedly to support and that we should support it all in this room. Whether he's late or not, that's now a question we don't need to discuss anymore. He's here, he's right in front of us, and we need to support him unequivocally. Recently, we had a law that allowed guide dogs to be used and that allowed our feeble or blind citizens to be equal in everyday life and to take part in the life of the social community. This law also allows our fellow citizens with deafness or deafness to work, to exist, to be visible and to be equal. Knowing that this law will in many ways determine the rights and obligations of employees to these members of society, that this law will allow society to live better, better, and fairer, we welcome its adoption and we certainly consider it important. We haven't had any amendments here either, and we don't think we should. Only life will show if it should be corrected in time. What we think this law is about, is to show our disabled fellow citizens, solving one of these problems at a time, that in addition to our concerns and social responsibilities to them, we show one love that we all lack in many ways, and love is a language that the blind can see, and deaf to hear and therefore, both of these legislative proposals in the day of the vote, New Serbia's MPs will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26345	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26346	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to express my satisfaction that this year is the first year in which a meeting of the Social and Economic Council of Serbia was held three times in four months, compared to the previous year when it was done once. There is no need to ignore this fact, because it is precisely at the Social-Economic Council, at the forum, that we should decide on the basic aspects and policies and development in terms of employment and employment relations, of course socio-economic issues. What represents contitio sini qua non of this law, it is a reform of the National Employment Service. The reform of the National Employment Service, which should have been done long ago, because this institution should be an institution that will proactively act and influence our society, that Serbia transforms itself from what it is and what exists with us, which is that we are an official society, into that society that we want and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Parliament itself wants to make, which is an entrepreneurial society. So, one service that will have a proactive relationship, which will act proactively on those citizens who are unemployed, who will work maximum on education, on training, but also on changes so-called "main set" and the habit of our people that in this employment process they must be proactive, they have to take the initiative to get a better job, to start their own business and to solve their destiny and their existence as individuals, and the state would be the only actor to make a good and quality environment. This environment will mean equal chances for all, equal chances for employment in the state administration and public administration, equal chances for private sector employment, but only based on one single parameter, which is human ability, human knowledge and the level of formal and informal education. Therefore, this reform of the National Employment Service is crucial in a work that is already very well done, and the minister said in his presentation that the unemployment rate has been reduced. It is now based on a methodology of about 18%, which compared to 2012, when it was 24%, is a very big advance, but with foreign investment level, with domestic investment, with a proactive attitude and a proactive role of the National Employment Service, we can make very good progress in this sense over the next few years. What I would also point out, as very important, in this reform of the National Employment Service, is the final alignment of employment policies with policies and situations on the ground in local self-governments, with their needs, but also with the needs and co-operation with higher education institutions, with secondary educational institutions, so that in this cooperation, staff or through informal education and training, staff who will be able to find work in a particular local environment. It is a very important shift in this sense that employment policy should be strategic, it should be targeted and monitored by the National Employment Strategy, to monitor it, to make it more competitive with those strategies that are regional and local. Thus, we will come up with those professions that are needed to provide clear information for the National Service to prepare training, to implement the training and education needed to get people to work as soon as possible. In this sense, it is very good that these trainings will last, some or six months, some will last up to two years, but I note that in certain sectors such as the machine industry, the metal industry, which we should definitely develop and which can be a comparative advantage of our economy, this aspect of education can last even shorter. So workers can get dressed in a few months, in two or three months, to work on certain machines, and this shows the experience of developed EU countries. What is also important is to finally define the costs of active employment, so that in any case, in the context of the work of the National Employment Service, but also of the Ministry itself, we will have the opportunity to do a single transparent analysis of how much investment in active employment measures, how many benefits they will have, so in the aspect of how many people are employed and how much they have actually produced results. In this respect, the National Employment Action Plan should be monitored. The reduction in the number of people presented to the board of directors of the National Employment Service is as good and as you said, the government controls and has a majority on that board, because it is responsible for both public policies and employment policy. What is important for the party I belong to, so for the SDS, the Social-Economic Council also delegates its three members, delegates representatives of the representative union and delegates representatives of business associations that are also representative. This legal solution is in favour of what has been done for the first time in the Republic of Serbia, which is to analyse the effects of legal solutions. You spoke of the effects of the Labour Act. I hope we can pass the social entrepreneurship bill soon. In addition to this law, in addition to the Employment Act, there is a colleague of Ljiljana Juver, who prepares it extremely well, we will create conditions for those people who will be part of the surplus employees when the company's restructuring issue and 502 companies in the privatisation process are resolved, so that through the opening of space for this so-called. The third sector opens up the possibility of hiring people who, in terms of the liberal economy, the market economy, do not have the opportunity, do not have the ability, lack the knowledge and capacity to employ on the market, we will also find the possibility to employ them in the third sector, therefore, in social enterprises. What is very important is that in this aspect of the law that we are talking about today, as well as the Employment Act, make sure that you have support and social partners, which is very important. You have it and it's a good thing you're in daily contact with them, because the very fact that collective agreements are signed, that we're going to develop, analyze collective bargaining in our country, especially at the border level... This is what is defined, when there has been a discussion on the Labour Law, that collective bargaining will be promoted at regional level and at the corporate level, to come up with one working law that is directed and adapted to EU labour legislation, which is in full capacity, and not only at these 11 hard points of the European Social Charter, but also those 22 soft points, that we fully agree with the EU and with the International Labour Organisation conventions. As you do well, when it comes to Convention 98, when it comes to Convention 87 and in this way take care of social aspects and social responsibility and respect for social partners. To conclude, a very important Convention 181, and when it comes to the responsibility of the employment agencies abroad. This is very good that those people who deal with this business have as much responsibility as possible, because the state thus shows great care for the employees and those who go to other countries to be secure, that those people who provide this job have full, material, moral, and any other responsibility to take care of them. In this way, the government of Serbia, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy takes care of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as of the conventions of the International Labour Organisation that should be the Bible of every labour law and the development of labour law in each country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26347	The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26348	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister and Associates, dear fellow MPs, we have two draft laws. Of course, I will try to look back as briefly as possible to comment and comment on the law on amendments and additions to the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. This law, I say right now, and the proposal has a good point that I've noticed as a significant step towards practice so far. This is Article 5, which provides that an unemployed person who is further educated and trained, in addition to training and transport costs, is given appropriate financial assistance, and this represents an additional measure of support for the unemployed in the process of obtaining employment opportunities and, in my view, represents the only measure in the bill which represents an improvement of the existing solution. Other things are more or less cosmetic or insufficiently defined or with insufficiently clear projection, plan or deadlines. What should be pointed out is that Serbian citizens are hearing, which is that these amendments to the law pay for the loss of a job only get from the National Employment Service those who have continued for 12 months worked at a company before that, while those who have received an severance greater than the minimum laid down by law do not have the right to the compensation. That, you've heard before, Minister, is one of the main objections to this bill. So, you're taking away the constitutional, legal, human right of an unemployed person who, by the nature of his relationship with the previous employer, has received severance. Now that you've got severance, imagine, God forbid, beyond the law, you have no right to compensation for unemployment. On what basis, by what legal act, by which human civilization or leftist postulate do you deprive people of the right to unemployment benefits? I'm not surprised if we know that we're the only country in the wider region, and maybe in Europe that has a drop in unemployment and employment growth, and all the data, to the soul of the dependence in which you look at that data, speak completely differently. You are unable to coordinate, level your institutions in the domain of statistics. And you know very well, because you know that you have one piece of information from the Ministry of Economy, the other from the Ministry of Finance, the third from the National Bank of Serbia, the fourth piece of data from the IMF, the fifth information you have from various other institutions, and no one else can provide any concrete information. So it's a little bit done at equating our statistical practice, which allows the government to spin things and show how they think it suits them. We doubtless find more people without a job in Serbia during this period, perhaps more have applied to the office, but more are without a job in Serbia. The projection by the IMF is that we are the only country in the region that will also have a growth in unemployment, unfortunately and we will, and we will also be European records according to other unfavourable indicators. We'll have a drop in industrial production, a drop in GDP, the only one in the wider region. That's IMF data. You must have seen it, too, but don't tell us now he's lying to the IMF, he has no idea what he's talking about. Because sometimes it suits you what they say, and sometimes it doesn't suit you. Otherwise, according to the National Bank of Serbia's statistical bulletin, respected ministers, we have in December 2014 the number of unemployed 742,000, in January 754,000, means growth. At the same time, we have a drop in the number of employees of millions and 700 million and 705,000. The average salary in December was 49,970 and in January was 39,285. That's the result of your government in just two months. That's the result of your authority, and since I don't want to run with you here in this statistic that you're unable to even up, I'm just saying, unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia and the way they live are completely deuting you and what you publicly propagate and are saying is in deep dissatisfaction with real life in Serbia on its streets, cities and villages. Whether you like it or not, there's no conspiracy, no hatred, no enmity here when I tell you this. The basic question is, how are you going to solve it with this law, if you take away the right of the people who received the severance payment for unemployment? That's the question. They got severance, so what did they do? How do you explain that you took 2% from the Health Fund and you paid it to the PIO Fund and then you show it to the respected citizens as growth. That's where the money came from. You took away from health care, and you put into the PIO fund, 2% last year. Okay, it's not, okay. You can show things any way you want, I understand that. It's not about whether or not the citizens will trust me more, just feel the empty pocket, while watching the candy from the screens they share. The unemployment rate will be one year's average salary, no more than six months. And that's what you predicted with these changes. Of course, the first famous member, by which the board of directors of the NSZ reduces the number from nine to seven. I think that's good, but disparity was made in favour of the Serbian government. So the number of members proposed by the Government will be four, i.e. it remains four, and it is reduced to three members proposed by the Social Economic Council. So, I agree that it is good that the Director of the NSZ should not automatically be a member of the Management Board. I also agree with those who think we should even ask the question why we need NSZ? Here, Minister, answer it, it may be a little bit of a very bold thesis or hypothesis, however you like. What do we need NSZ for? You know what the citizens of Serbia say? Cancel this NSZ is in the parties' decision on business anyway. Then man, if he wants to get a job going into the socialist movement, going to the SNS, going to the SDPS, maybe less, I'm not sure how you quote, at Velija Ilic he probably can't do anything, that's what respected citizens today's new employment service that the state controls and has board of directors. What do they need the board of directors for? You need to control him and you to ask directly for responsibility. National Employment Service, you don't care about the Social Economic Council, you reduce their number, and there are four government representatives left. Will Prime Minister Vukic be on that board? Will you be? I wonder why it had to be so disparity? Why hasn't the number of government members been reduced, for example, and representatives of trade unions and employers to increase by one? Why? That's what I'm interested in. What I also want to say in point 2 is that this position should be complemented and it should be said that other active employment policies directed towards the employment of persons referred to in item 1 of point 8 of this article can be created on an annual level by an action plan and by what you do not meet in the proposal – with the cost of realisation. It doesn't tell you – with the cost of realization. That's probably an oversight. It would be good to adopt that. I've already commented on article 5, that's a good solution. Then we have a Article 6 where an employer's obligation to conclude a work contract is projected to be deleted when public works are carried out. We believe that in today's Serbia general discrimination, the suppression of the labour rights of Serbian citizens, this provision can be the basis for future abuses, because this employer, as you know, is looking forward to no commitment and you are continuing to meet them. Why would he need a job contract? You'll be working here as long as I... Besides, on the basis of your labor law, which is disastrous, so now you're supplementing that thing. We think that it should say that the employer who conducts public works concludes with an unemployed appropriate labour contract, in line with labour and public competition regulations. Also, I have to say that in a recently published report with the spring session, Serbia is the only country in Europe that expects the IMF to drop GDP compared to the previous year and the growth of the unemployment rate. I already said that. It is official data, which, of course, concerns every citizen of Serbia. The IMF projections based on which you cut wages and pensions in Serbia were then relevant data, their forecasts, and now you don't need their forecast. A very simple answer, as well as questions. The IMF projection comes from the next premise, that privatisation will leave around 30,000 Serbian citizens out of work by the end of 2015. So, about 30,000 Serbian citizens, we're afraid it's possible, probably running out of work, according to the IMF. Corporateisation of the public sector and other things you intend to do, according to the Fiscal Council, will leave as much as 27,000 out of work, plus these 30,000 are 57,000 out of work. These are the estimates of relevant institutions that you often call upon yourself. The increase in the payment to the PIO fund by us is not due to increased employment, but rather to an increase in the rate of contribution, as I said about PIO, last year by 2% and better control of the collection of these contributions, which is certainly positive and of course a reduction in salary tax. Article 12 provides that the obligation for the unemployed to repay the cash compensation he had the right to the NSZ, and does not specify who is responsible for the error. So, if a mistake is found, he is obliged to return the funds he has received, but what you have overlooked is not specified that there has been a mistake by his fault. So, please correct this thing and write it down – in case there was an error by an unemployed person, because as it is written, it can be completely misread. I don't know if you've noticed, that's Article 12. These changes and changes are not of deep character. They have a lot of cosmetics in them, and it could have been much, much more and much better done, but what you certainly did, what you certainly did was to further reduce the rights of unemployed people in Serbia, to take away their right to compensation in case they got severance, which no legal, human, social relationship has to do with each other. You have one right to terminate because someone has obtained a previous right with the company he worked with. This is an unrecorded case in line with the national cataclysm that exists in Serbia today, which is called unemployment and which should be the enemy of all of us. How do you solve the problem of unemployment? Here's how you solve -- incorrectly, not enough, without a contract, with a narrowing of the right to compensation, with a reduction in the fee because it counts six months and not a year. It's a brief picture of what you brought us, with the IMF projections and the Fiscal Council, respected citizens, who show that we are the only ones who are going to have a drop in GDP and a rise in unemployment. How are we going to solve this, Minister? What are the specific public works? How you will implement action plans, projections, agreements, dialogue, projects. We got money from the IPA fund for all kinds of things. Where did that money go? How was it used? Who hires party staff while we have a job ban? Why in this country does money run into things instead of what's necessary? Serbia's biggest cataclysm is unemployment, convincing. There are no statistics, out of the seven that you have in the official authorities of Serbia, that can cover what you have failed to do in three years. You failed. That's our question. On the subject of the bill on the use of sign language, just a few things, just a few things, other MPs of the Democratic Party will talk more about it. A different classification of persons with damage is required. It is necessary that they choose their own interpreters and that these people be involved, that they be allowed to choose people who will be interpreted to them in certain situations for certain needs. Local hearing or vision associations need to have their own local list to choose an interpreter from, not to centralised everything. That's not supposed to happen. Cancel the provision by which the employer pays an interpreter when interviewing for a job. It's discriminatory. I'm saying, this thing can really hurt people because they have to come to work and talk... Well, it's good if there's no better. We've read it. I don't know what kind of text you have. As a matter of fact, like I do. What I find to be one of my biggest regrets is that every reference to funding is insufficiently defined. They are in shape – if they are, compared to the means, when the funds are provided, there are no deadlines, no means, no projections, no numerical representation. How do we interpret it? Of course, we will consume every right through a legal proposal when the funds are provided, but what does that mean? It just means it's like Serbian politics today-- we'll do it, we'll change it, we'll plan it, we'll work it out, we'll work it out, there's ways, we're better than those before us. It's the whole policy of your government. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens, reality, a living standard that has been deeply broken in the last 10 years, but in the last three years it has been particularly. Unemployment growth, different methodologies, different political legal tricks to overwrite numbers from one item to another. It's all what my colleague says, legitimately, but the problem is it has nothing to do with life outside. You used to know that life out there. Perhaps it's time to remind yourself, Minister, and tell us that the current problem and future problem in this country, which is endemic, which is huge, which is growing, we're going to solve. Just please, if you have any strength and intellectual honesty to not start talking about who did what now, but to talk about what you're doing and what you're going to do, not because I'm afraid of it, and not because my ghastly colleagues from Vranjska Banja are bothering you, but because what citizens are interested in, and those who have broken the law, we'll agree, I don't mean an esteemed colleague on the left-hand side, they should answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26349	Please, Mr Stefanovic, do not address the MPs, finish the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26350	Can you ask a private from Vrnjaka spa not to laugh at me loudly?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26351	Should I ask a private from the Vrnjak spa not to laugh at you? You see for yourself, that what you've said, it's so unserious that it humiliates this high house.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26352	You didn't hear. Who?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26353	What you just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26354	A man laughs at me the whole time and throws it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26355	Can I, as chairman, forbid anyone to have a smile on his face?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26356	It's not a smile, Mr. Becic. Here, since we're talking about people who have a problem and have to use sign language, I can explain to you effectively that smile is something that has no audio effect, and loud laughter or bitterness is something that has an audio effect. It causes a hearing aid to react. In this case, we've had quite a situation, but you haven't noticed. I'm really sorry if you think I offended home, apologized to all my colleagues, but it would be their turn to refrain from such...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26357	Your comment only, Mr. Stefanovic, is what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26358	Okay. I would ask at the end of the minister, if it is possible, that through a reasoned debate without these unnecessary political bickerings if he can answer these specific questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26359	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. I've got multiple reports. Mr. Granny, on what grounds? (Zoran Babic, from the post: Replication of the party. Before that, I will give my word to Minister Alexander Vulin. He's got a head start. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26360	I'd like it if the debate was only about arguments. That would be great. However, I'm afraid there have been many political assessments here, and your government is like this, your government is like this, you're like this, you're like this. Maybe we're not really coordinated when it comes to different institutions and to be honest, we didn't even try to be. Each institution has its own methodology, it needs to work in accordance with the law and its obligations, and every data says something. At a time when some other governments co-ordinated, as I heard here, the work of these institutions and co-ordinated the data and when they left the political and historical scene in 2012, according to their coordinated data, the percentage of unemployment in this country based on the Labour Force Survey was 25.5%. Now that we're not coordinating anything, it's 16.8%. So, by the same methodology, the same thing. There's no coordination. That's what happened. That's how it is. I see, no one can explain to me how the number of people, names and last names that pay pension contributions has increased. So, not the amount of money, and if the amount of money is very clearly explained. You said yourself, we increased 2% of our contributions. That's right. An 8% increase in the amount of money paid to the PIO Fund. Two and eight, how, and at the same time the public sector's salaries are reduced by 10%? So how did it increase by 8% in the PIO fund if the salaries were reduced and the increased contributions were only 2%? How, if there was no increase in the number of people? Who invented these 62,000 people, names and last names that pay their contributions? Who? How? Who, in their name, does a phantom pay every month a contribution to the PIO? How? It's not possible and you know it well, and we can talk whatever we want. Is 62,000 enough? No, it's not. That's where we could make an easy deal. It's not enough and we're working on it to be more of course, but don't forget when you talk about IMF projections that the IMF is talking about these 530 companies because they're a wave of companies that are completely ruined and where people are left without a job. Right, that's the expected unemployment, and those 530 companies didn't come this year. We can't not say they've been made for 14 years. We can't say that by guarding companies that don't have any economic function, giving sometimes wages, sometimes not giving, usually before the elections, some kind of money was paid by these companies for five billion euros. These are the companies, so they didn't start yesterday, so they were made in this country, five billion euros are owed by these companies. These are the workers the IMF is talking about. I'm sorry, the IMF was wrong about our budget deficit, he thought it would be bigger. We've been saving more. He's smaller now, so what? It's not even possible to make a mistake. It's possible to be in many things, of course, and management. We can't not say how this came about. What are we fighting now? Well, we don't fight an orderly business system where everything is right, 530 companies you artificially kept alive by buying votes and 530 companies are now coming to us. We could have followed the recipe that lasted 12 years in this country -- we could have been in charge and continued with these same businesses. If we didn't shut down these companies, if we didn't privatize them or go bankrupt, all these other people would have the same employees, we'd be paying them the same, we'd be in charge of their salaries. Great, great statistics don't have any new unemployed, but is that possible? Is that good? Well, of course not, and of course you have to do what's done, but statistics are more than clear. More money, more people are paying into the Pension Fund. Here, if it can be a little clearer. I don't think it's correct to talk here at all about party employment by people who have ruled for 12 years. Well, how do you think all that extra employees were made? It's made for the past year, isn't it? It wasn't made for those last 12 years? It wasn't then that the state administration was pumping, it was just now pumping state administration? But we don't share people by party membership wherever they work. Here, I have people sitting next to me who have nothing to do with my party. He's my assistant, and I don't know how long you've been in the ministries before me, the Director of the National Service has nothing to do with my party, and before that, he's been in this ministry for how many years. We don't do it, we just don't do it. When we think about it, we see how some people here would do it. They'd be divided by the party membership of an employee and fired by a party not responding. We don't fire members of opposition parties either. Why would they do that? Every man is exactly the same to us, wherever he works, only if he works. I'm not asking how someone brought him in, or why someone brought him in, it's just important that he does his job and that's all. Why do you need to get ready for the sessions? What we have said here, as we have abolished the right of people, as we have taken away from them, as we have never before, we have taken away the right to receive compensation, I read – if, as a result of technological, economic or organisational changes, the need to carry out a certain job and there is a reduction in the volume of work in accordance with the Law, except for the person who, in accordance with the Government's decision on the establishment of a programme for the resolution of extra employees in the process of rationalisation, restructuring and preparation for privatisation, has been voluntarily defined for monetary compensation or special cash compensation in excess of the amount of compensation established by the Labour Act, these persons do not have the right to compensation by the National Employment Service, and this is the 2009 Law. You've just criticised the provision you made in 2009. We just added that the person who for these reasons lost his job, so he took the severance payment, as foreseen by the 2009 Law, bigger than the Labour Act, as foreseen by the 2009 Act, we just said he couldn't get that right again unless he had a working relationship for the next 12 months, so he's out of a job, nothing more. No one's right has been denied, this was in force under the 2009 Law, today. Nothing else, we just wanted to avoid, which has already appeared in practice, that a fictitiously employed person who took the severance, works two, three, ten, a month, gets fired, it doesn't matter why, and we predicted that if he loses his job, if he gets fired by his own fault, leaves his post willingly, then he can't get paid, because it's obvious that it's an abuse. You after that, you get severance, you get a job, you work 12 months, I repeat, this is all a provision of the 2009 Act, you work 12 months, you run out of work, you can go back to NSZ, but you can't right after you get the severance. We have thus solved an important life issue for over 11,000 people so far. Imagine all those 11,000 people now getting hired by someone for six days and just going to NSZ. Well, who's gonna pay? Where did that money come from? Otherwise, the average severance, you know, is over 5,000 euros. It is up to 8,000 euros, but is about 5,000 euros average. And for the record, in a fierce struggle with the IMF, we've fought to make the severance for all the years of the internship, not just for the last employer, which was just an IMF request, but we haven't advertised it, we haven't talked about it. It is normal to fight for the citizens and of course we fight for our citizens and we have provided them here and a better position and better severance. As far as this particular issue is concerned, the contract for a certain period of time, public works, as a rule, are armed. Why, then, inform the employer of a single type of contract, he may have any other type of contract, including that type of contract provided for by the Labour Act. What's the problem? Why can't a temporary part-time job? It's foreseen by the Labour Act. It's possible, they come together every day. Why do you only limit your employer to one thing? We're giving him a wider fan. Under the 2009 Law, what's most important is that we don't disturb the public, we talk about it, nobody loses one single right. To repeat, if you have received more severance than in the Labour Act, I repeat the council, and the average is more than 5,000 euros, if you received such compensation, as in 2009 when the Law passed the previous regime, it is exactly the same, you have no right to come to NSZ immediately and you say – give me the salary for another 12 months. You don't have that right, you have to get a job again, you've been working for 12 months. If your working relationship ends after 12 months, come to the NSZ, you will again have all the rights stemming from the Law and the rights you gain in the event of unemployment. Everything else is intentional malevolent interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26361	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic. Replication to Mr. Stefanovic's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26362	When the concern of Serbian citizens walks into the “Pradina” shoes of the National Assembly building, I think that the broad crowds are simply thrilled with the concern. One thing I will agree with the previous speaker, one sentence – Serbia's greatest cataclysm is unemployment. It is Serbia's biggest cataclysm unemployment, but when the generator of such a policy and such unemployment says - no, be smart enough and do not say that the former regime is the bearer and bearer of such cataclysm, the least he could expect is a smile. Ironic yes, because it's better to smile than grinding teeth in Serbia, and there are 400,000 of them, the ones you left out of work in just four years. Let these announcements be true, 30 plus 27, 57,000 people without a job, and what about the 400,000 people you left out of a job? Do you say that to the citizens of Serbia – these terrible and disgusting advances will fire 57,000 people, we are better, we, the former regime, are better, we have fired 400,000 people. Well, there you are more efficient, well, there you are better, that I must admit. Party employment should also be courageous and responsible and say that there are no innocents in party employment, there are no innocents in party employment, but the degree of guilt is directly proportional to years of remaining in power. One year of SNS, until we created and brought a moratorium for public sector employment, compared to 15 years of the ruling of the DS, the former regime, compared to 15 years of current party employment of Bojan Pajtic in the AP Vojvodina. What do we do with that? There's life outside this room, thank God, there's life outside this room. Does enough people in Serbia work? It does not work, of course, that we are fighting and that we will fight to make this number of people working in Serbia bigger and bigger, but this is life in Serbia – 8 April 2015 "Jinsi" Krupanj, 200 new jobs, investment 700,000...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26363	I'm sorry. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26364	Here, in two sentences, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26365	You will be deprived of your time from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26366	December 8, 2014 "Fresenius Medical Care" Vrsac, 429, KWS Vienna 250, "Henkel" 220. It's life in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26367	I thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Babic, my mistake has exceeded the time of 40 seconds, but it will be taken away from the time of the parliamentary group. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26368	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, you have injured Article 104, which speaks of the right to a replica, which speaks of a two-minute replica. Don't say that the longer time someone spent can be taken away, added or anything to be done. It doesn't exist. There is a time to take away when the breach of the Rules of Procedure is misused. So you're well-known to be creatively interpreting this Rules of Procedure and that it is different for MPs sitting in this part of the hall compared to MPs sitting in another part of the hall, so someone can never get a replica, and someone can get a replica whenever they want. It is the image and opportunity of this Parliament in the last year of democracy as you see it. We will fight until the end of this term to show you that what you are doing is not democratic, that it does not comply with this Rules of Procedure. If anything wrong with this Rules of Procedure or you don't mind, change it. Change it, like you've changed a lot of laws in the past year. But when there are rules, I ask you to apply themselves to everything and that you cannot interpret and add parts to this Rules of Procedure as you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26369	I thank you, Mr. Gursich. I don't want to replicate with you because you've made me afraid with threats, so I don't want to fight with you. I just want to answer what you're... (National MP Marko Djurisic reports in the Rules of Procedure. I can't break it again, you know that. You and Mr. Stefanovic were telling me something at the moment, and I took my eyes off the screen and I didn't see that time was up, so it was about 30 seconds, and by the time Mr. Babic finished 40 seconds. I thought it was fairest that time should be denied the time of the parliamentary group, but I had already said that I was guilty of overstepping time because I didn't warn him in time. It's about the answer. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. I thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, he has the word Mr. Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26370	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, Mr Becic, the Honorable Minister Vulin and the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry and the National Employment Service, you, Mr Becic, have now injured two members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, member 104 and member 109. Article 104 by now admitting yourself that you have extended the duration of the replica to Mr Babic for two minutes and 45 seconds and then added to subtract those 45 seconds from the time foreseen for the parliamentary group. In Article 104, Mr. Bečić, it is precise – the replica cannot, under any circumstances, last longer than two minutes. Then you, Mr. Becic, cannot go against what it says in Article 104. Rules of Procedure, to add and subtract the seconds we use here in the National Assembly, we Members of the People. So, your obligation was to Mr. Babic, as you do to us from the opposition, tell us when two minutes are up - no more than one second, so there will be an opportunity later during the replicas, during the speech to round up Mr. Babic's thought. Then, Mr. Becic, you injured Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I see exactly what I'm explaining to you here right now, that you accept and then please accept the consequences. You just said you were wrong. You just said it yourself. I was wrong. If you're wrong, Mr. Becic, then finally apply article 109 to yourself. Rules of Procedure and yourself to give now the warning measure, finally once, which is long deserved, Mr. Becic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26371	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Once again, I apologize to the MPs for not looking at the screen at the moment, and I didn't see that time was up, and I didn't warn Mr. Babic, but you convinced me that I was wrong because I said I would take the time, so, Mr. Babic, I'm giving you 40 seconds back, because I have no right to take it away from you. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: You are breaking the Rules of Procedure. ) The Assembly will declare whether I have violated the Rules of Procedure, according to the Rules of Procedure, as you know, Mr Pavicevic, the Honorable Professor. Read a little better Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Here, I read. So you don't read well, Mr. Pavicevic, I have to educate you every time. Thank you. The assembly will declare in the voting day whether I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Stefanovic, unlike what one of the speakers said you do not have the right to reply, your right has been fulfilled, not with "Prad", not with the former regime, not with the previous speaker, because I did not recognize you there, you may have recognized yourself, but the party is mentioned, so you have the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26372	That's right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I know, the previous speaker will not be recognized in that he owns a hotel that he built while he was in a public enterprise, that it is in line with the care of the unemployed and the suffering citizens of Serbia, but no one will recognize it. Only parties when mentioned specifically, then everyone has the right to replication. You have introduced this rule very narrowly and restrictively and well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26373	Mr. Stefanovic, are you saying that I have to recognize you when "Prade" is mentioned?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26374	No, I'm just spreading that right. Do you understand? So, as a gentleman can't be recognized because he built a hotel while working in a public company, so I don't recognize myself in those shoemaking arguments that are at that level either. But the bottom line is that crisis and unemployment generators in Serbia are people who were citizens three years ago, watch out, three years ago, as far as they were in power, promised to hire Serbia, to put an end to party employment, to eliminate corruption. None of those three things have been fulfilled. You hired 65,000 party people at all levels in Serbia, costing over 600m euros. That's a fact, that's what Minister Krstic confirmed, and that's what Minister Vulin confirmed today. So, what do we do about it now? Yes, it is, it was confirmed by Minister Vulin at one point, I don't know now which of the ministers said it, but you said it. In that sense, I think it would be correct after that recognition that you do something, not selectively like from which parties, but with the practice of finally breaking up in Serbia, because 65,000 people you hired partyically at all levels are not a small number. So local companies, etc. Otherwise, the contribution rate for PIO has been increased realistically by 16.5%.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26375	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26376	Two percent refers to the total mass of the payers... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26377	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. I'm sorry, I was warned I had to hang up for two minutes. I wish in 12 years you'd made an effort to interrupt something and your party employment. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26378	It's very short, since I really don't know how there was a 65,000 figure. Who calculated it, who examined their party books, who confirmed it? I certainly didn't. I just want to run one little test. Let's see if the Ministry I run has any DS members, and see if there's a single member of the SNS or the Socialist Movement in the province's administration. You'll find me among the assistants. Then, if you want to implement the detachment measures, go from where you're in power. You're not the opposition, you're the government. All that you're transferring to us now and telling me you can solve it in the AP Vojvodina and show it in action. That's great, you have a great opportunity to do it. Don't forget to find these members of the SNS and the Socialist Movement, etc., and I will find them in my ministry and among my assistants.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26379	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. Mr. Stefanovic, you have no right to a replica. Mr. Granny, you have no right to a replica. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Minister Pitta, Mr Becicu. Mr. Stefanovic, no comment. The word has an authorised representative, Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26380	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of Parliament, I hope that after a series of replicas we will return to reviewing the laws that are before us today. In the first part, I will refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment, which brings some changes in this area. Under the scope of the proposed law, we can see that he is not particularly plentiful, as the minister said in his explanation, but it is important because he is making changes in the implementation of the employment policy, to the concrete extent to be applied, but also to ensure that unemployed persons are provided for in this law. In the current Law, the current Employment Act is effectively changing 20 members, but these changes are important because they will lead to significant changes, both in the employment process itself and in the National Employment Agency itself, and in future work with unemployed persons, in the way of job-seeking, in co-operation with the unemployed, in their preparation, retraining, in the process of seeking work, in the process of developing a private enterprise for which it is expected in the coming period to be in the greater scope, in obtaining and using severances, the right to severance and in this respect the right to material compensation during unemployment, in particular with regard to its control of abuses which, unfortunately, were during the previous period. Also, this law strengthens the obligations of the service, or employment agency. They refer to the use of data from the Central Register, which I believe is very important, which is located at the PIO Fund and which recently, the law we adopted and their constitution, collects all the data relating to the payment of contributions to pension and social security. This means that the networking of institutions and raising the quality of their work to a higher level is applied. At the same time, using data from the Central Register, it is possible to see the situation and behaviour of employers in terms of payouts and contributions, which is very important. I believe that this is particularly important, because in all the changes to the law, we cannot only go to the control of how employees or unemployed behave and what rights or restrictions of workers are, but at the same time we must take care of the discipline of employers and the implementation of policies that direct them to their legal fulfilment of the obligations provided for, and this primarily relates to the payment of earnings and to the payment of the corresponding contributions. All these, as well as other changes to the law, aim to prepare the services for changes that will arise by the end of the year in terms of employment and unemployment, training for new work and adapting to the needs that otherwise exist on the labour market. In this direction, concrete changes are being made to the organisation of the National Employment Agency for the management of its affairs, and above all concerns the organisation and number of board members, but also the position of its advisers, their obligations to the unemployed, with a view to their greater and better training to assist in job-seeking, apply active employment measures, as well as their continuing commitment to learning new education, with the mandatory obtaining of certificates which means confirming the adoption of new knowledge. It is important to note that these new approaches have been made with the support of the World Bank and are in line with the models that already exist in the world. This redesigned service puts the accent on active measures that enable reform to begin, which is our goal to all of us. Employment policy objectives are established every year in action plans. They can change and supplement over time, and the most important thing is that the labour market and labour markets exist, that it is dynamic and that the employment process changes year by year and of course, we are in the interest of all of us that the number of employees is increasing. Our big problem is that we have a small market and there is a limited labour market, which is still a large number of unemployed people today, especially among young people, where almost one third of the unemployed are among women, where more than 50% are unemployed and also because there are a large number of unemployed with secondary school training, which suggests the need for further education, particularly specialised, according to the labour market requirement. A special blow to the labour market by the end of the year will have been restructured by the companies concerned. We know you're talking about the number of 188 companies that will have to go bankrupt by the end of the year. According to the government's Action Plan in the last days of January of this year, 188 companies are required to conduct a survey on the social programme within 60 days of receiving the privatisation agency's notice, i.e. obtaining the severance of workers to stop working relations. From that number, of course, it's the 70's and something company's got no employees in it. The program that is hinted cannot be changed, nor can the deadlines be extended. It is important to point out that these business jobs must be accelerated, and I think that these employment services may be able to help in the next period, because the deadlines stand out and workers would otherwise be left without any severance where they have otherwise not been involved. But there are two problems. One is that workers still believe in many businesses that in some ways their businesses and their companies will be saved and they want to stay working. Secondly, if there were a lot of cases where all previous earnings were not paid, the workers would wait for them to exercise their rights, so that they would seek compensation afterwards. In that case, I think that the Agency for Reconstruction and Employment, i.e. through the Ministry, can also give certain quality and operational instructions additional and measures that will encourage this to be implemented to an appropriate extent and in the way that this is foreseen to the end. In practice, they say the average severance is around 3,500 euros, someone says 5,000 euros, but most demand much more on behalf of annual unpaid earnings and interest. I think that must also be regulated. In addition, the problem with Serbia is that once the job is lost or abandoned, there are not enough jobs for all those who remain unemployed to find the job again, and the severances, unfortunately, are not enough to start new jobs. This means that the most important task in Serbia is the creation of new jobs, which, during this debate, was, of course, the creation of opportunities for new employment. I think it's a big commitment from the government. I can see that it's working on that, but I think that in these procedures and in these matters it really needs to be properly involved as many people as possible, in order for these tasks to be accomplished. For this we need foreign and domestic investors and governments, of course, intensively to work to attract and encourage them. There is also a lot of difficulties at the global level, where there is a global economic crisis, but also at home, where there is a narrowed number of employers, where the commodity market, where many factories are closed, decreased production volume, the consequences of a multi-annual company closure policy. So today, neither young nor old workers, nor educated, nor uneducated, nor men, nor women can be easily employed. True, the number of unemployed is slowly decreasing, but it is still insufficient and remains high-level and remains the number of people looking for a job in Serbia. That is why, as a result of such a situation, we are talking more and more and more and every day the problem is being drained by young people, especially highly educated and professional personnel who are trying to find employment outside Serbia. True, this procedure must change in these coming years. What is important to us, is that by creating a strong economy in Serbia, we create strong Serbia, and then it is the basis and stability for the development of knowledge and education, for the development of culture, but also for health and social protection. And we believe in that kind of Serbia, and it is our goal, because only such a Serbia can ensure the protection and security of its citizens, the right to a well-organised and socially responsible state, which we stand for to the end. The new law will also bring new measures and possibilities. First of all, regulation of employment through public works, however limited, where part of the active employment policy, additional education and new visions of requalification are also applied to which employment services refer. The basis for the level of financial assistance is specified, minimum unemployment compensation is provided. The law sets out opportunities for the employment of foreigners and this is in line with the Law on the Employment of Foreigners, which is also a good effect of this law, and more detail is given to the obligations of employers who employ workers abroad, which is to establish the obligation of prior application of workers abroad, as well as penalties for all fraud and non-compliance with the obligations of such employers who have shown their high liability, and we have seen that in such cases there have been large, even tragic consequences. So this law is to be adopted. Create conditions as soon as possible for their application and implementation. Modernising, improving employment services, helping workers and people to focus on new forms of work, and in Serbia it is necessary to create additional, means new jobs, change access to work, create a cult of work, not a cult of work. In employers, developing a relationship that employees are not cost, that each employer must give a decent labour price, that profits must be paid in time, as well as all contributions in accordance with this. This only creates citizens' social security, and for today and tomorrow it provides not only for the development of Serbia and its modernisation, but even has a positive impact on what is Serbia's big problem, which is stopping the white plague. Of course, it is difficult to reach the goal, which is why it is important that we all get involved, and that is the orderly Serbia, done for us, not just by the tasks and programmes of the EU. So, when it comes to this law of the SPS, of course in the voting day, they will vote for this law. The second law we talk about today is the use of sign language. This is an important European law, which allows every person to express his ideas, thoughts and feelings using a language that he knows best and understands. Depriving this right deprives inalienable human rights, the right to communicate. For a long time, this assembly and this government have indicated through their policy that they are going towards creating greater rights for people with disabilities, creating in the previous case from the Law on the use of dogs to help people who need to move, and this is also the continuation of such a policy. Sign language is a necessary form of communication for deaf people. These persons have a desire and a need to be accepted in society, to express themselves and to be accepted in modern society, so they must be allowed to be present, to be employed, to achieve their interests and goals in accordance with their education. When it comes to this, part of the law that also allows for this, and what is a newspaper, is to establish, or expand the number of interpreters for sign language, and when it comes to it, it is important that they will be entered into the new nomenclature of occupation. This law regulates who can organise and implement the sign language learning process, as he learns at school, in the process of inclusion, where all physical and communication barriers are lifted, brings an individual educational plan. When it comes to learning sign language, it is possible to distinguish between two situations. One, when a man learns for himself and the other, when knowledge is acquired to do the work of sign language interpreters. When it comes to the use of interpreters, the law foresees and regulates its use in front of state authorities, participation in political life and all forms of communication, how it is taught and how it is applied at school. The Law also regulates the use of sign language by the employer in the process of hiring vocational training, volunteering and regular work wherever there is a need. It is precisely out of the need to satisfy these rights of the law that the requirements for the assistance of this type are expressed through professional associations, i.e. persons with disabilities, public service or employer. An important part of the law is also measures to encourage the application and promotion of sign language, conditions for the use of this service through the association, as well as the obligations of the ministry and its resources in the budget under social protection funds that will help develop this area. Detailed by these laws, one and the other, colleagues from our parliamentary group will speak in principle during the next period. I'll just say it again, that the SPS for both proposed laws in the voting day will vote and give them full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26381	Thank you, Mrs. Dragash. The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26382	I want to thank you for carefully studying both legislative proposals and just a few things to clarify. The employer doesn't pay the interpreter. The interpreter provides, you said it well, but it's good to emphasize it. There was also a proposal that the employer would pay the interpreters, but we know that it would sound good, but it would emerge in its opposite. Then he'd avoid hiring a deaf and deaf person and say, "That's another expense to me, like I'm hiring two workers." And, of course, we didn't do it. The funds are foreseen, in the labour ministry's division, there are about threem euros planned for the functioning of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities. They finance this service in local self-government. Otherwise, it is an obligation of local self-government, but we still help function the Alliance, or an interpreter's office, and we already have 81. I hope we have a lot more, but we have to be real somewhere there's a need, somewhere there's no need. Somewhere there's a need for more interpreters, and somewhere there's really no need to organize an office. But that's why you have the nearest municipality where there's an alliance and where there's an interpreter, so you'll be able to call an interpreter from there. That's exactly why we didn't set deadlines, because how do you predict that? Because a deaf or deaf person should go to a doctor and be scheduled for five days, how in the law to predict that we have to respond within four days or six days. No, it's just that it's life, and it's already working, but it's important for that matter to be settled once and for people to feel like it's part of this society, which they certainly are. You mentioned when you were talking about the Employment Law of Workers' Claims in terms of missed earnings and all that comes out of it. This law, as well as any other law or decision by the Government, does not lose that right, the worker has the right to seek, the worker has the right to express his claim in accordance with the law. Whether it's a court, if it's another way, it's another question, but certainly it does. The word bankruptcy that none of us like is exactly a cure for this problem. When the company goes bankrupt then the worker has the right to receive nine earnings through the Solidarity Fund, otherwise he cannot. So we all need to know that's possible. This year, for the Solidarity Fund, 500 million dinars have been allocated for such purposes. So that's the way. This government and speaking of the Solidarity Fund only as a small one, just as a small example of how this government works unlike some others. The man who runs the Solidarity Fund has been there since the founding, is not a member of any of the ruling parties. Of course, if we hadn't changed it, it's doing well for the Fund and what's there to change. I'm not sure we can say that every time. So, but there's one way that we unfortunately don't know enough to get these particular claims of workers to be fulfilled in the end line. We also predicted by the Labour Act that the worker would receive a checklist, whether he was paid or not. The employer is obliged to issue you a billing list, and the billing list based on the Labour Act, this terrible Labour Act has become a public document, it is automatically recognised in court as a note. You need to appear in court, you don't have to have a lawyer, during legal strikes, this was one of the few things that worked. Of course, the problem is if there's no money in the company, but there's no law that can make one company a successful company. That law doesn't exist, nor can it fill his bill. And by the law that provides, we're just continuing to practice that this government is a socially responsible government. I'm sorry, this is the first government to take and accept in the social programme and in any other way even company workers where privatisation failed, where the state admitted to trading badly, that it was a bad trader with its capital. That wasn't the case until now. This government didn't do bad privatisation, but anyway. We said the worker wasn't guilty. It's not the worker's fault they sold him the company to turn him into old iron and construction land. He's been on the street without this government so far. It wasn't a social program. There was no compensation for him. You complain to your boss, what we have with you, you're privatized. We said no. Where the state traded badly, where it turned out to be a bad host, we'll protect the workers, because he didn't do anything wrong and no government had done it before. It's the Socially Responsible Government. That's how you do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26383	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Dragash, you've reached out, but you have no right to a replica. You've got four minutes left, so you can at the end of the debate, if you think there's anything else you need to say, say it. Thank you. The word is Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26384	The respected chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues, today we have two important laws in the field of labour and social policy, two important laws that highlight the permanent definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to enable full equality between all its citizens and the Law on the use of sign language as one in a series of laws that we have passed, and this one that we are about to pass, points to great concern when people with disabilities are concerned. When we talk about sign language, first of all, we need to know that this language has all the linguistic properties, its grammatical functions – phonology, morphology and syntax. We should leave the use of sign language to people who need to use it and that is their full and inalienable right, in order to integrate into all social and public and functions and activities in our society. Why did we define ourselves as law-making? Because in many modern countries, it's something simple, and it goes without saying. With us, we can't accept that there's something going on and then we decided to pass a law like this so that we can exercise the rights where to the fullest extent this person gets involved in all social flows and be equal to others. If we want to watch a glass half full or half empty, we can always find faults, so today we've heard that we need some proof when an interpreter is needed for sign language. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, All it takes is the desire and the need to show itself and the person who wants to, will be entitled to an interpreter for sign language, for all its needs to be met, at any time in the case of health insurance, at any time in the case of a job search, for clarification by the employer on conditions in the workplace, on the terms of a labour contract that is to be signed on the establishment or termination of a employment relationship. These people practically enjoy all rights this way. As regards education itself, when it comes to children, this part of the law is practically continued, i.e. by relying on the Law on education and on the part of the inclusion, it is clearly foreseen that children with impaired hearing and children with difficulty and speech due to the primary hearing damage themselves can exercise their right to education and adequate education through the inclusion process. As for education itself in sign language, there are several levels. There is education and learning of sign language of persons with disabilities, then members of their families who want to exercise their right and have equal communication with their hosts and there is another important possibility, which is education for a new interest, and there is an interpreter of sign language that will be completely equal as a court interpreter, translator for some other foreign languages. What I would like to point out and point out is that we should also pay attention to those environments where we also have national minorities who do not speak Serbian, to provide them with timely education and sign language interpreters in their native language. Education will be conducted by educational and educational institutions that meet these conditions and certainly for interpreters, sign language will also require licensing, and not everyone will be able to do so, but persons who have passed certain training. There's something more important I want to say, which is that in 2001, the first sign language school was organized and there were only five students. Now there will be 14 schools and on average there will be about 60 sign language participants. Over the past 14 years, about 300 people have acquired basic education for the use of sign language, and we have just over 50 interpreters for sign language. What I also want to point out, which is what the minister said, is that employers should not be afraid, will not bear any costs, nor will they be obliged to hire interpreters, but is at associations and alliances for hearing impaired persons who are obliged to provide interpreters for the needs of their users. It is also very important that we know how this institute is financed, that part of it can be financed and financed from the defined funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. What is very important, we need to engage that local self-government, part of the funding, is planned on the basis of needs, their environments for organising and implementing these measures from the law. What is very important is the possibility of funding from legislation, donations and all the legal resources that can be made by citizens' associations. I think this is a good law, a law in a series where we want our fellow citizens who are a little different from us, put in a completely equal position with us, and we want to give them equal opportunities for employment and give them adequate education and allow them to show their talents in some other areas in the right way and be full members of our society. As for the second law, which is now in order, and these are amendments and additions to the law, I would like to say that with careful analysis by the Ministry of Labour and careful supervision of the laws that already exist, there have been conclusions that there are certain problems, certain abuses, and that is precisely the right to cash compensation after the severance, because it has been observed that there is, not in all environments, situations, but from some persons, an incorrect attitude and thus is being damaged directly both by the budget and the Republic of Serbia. That we don't have to scare the citizens and say again if we want to watch the glass half-empty, then we'll have an attitude like our colleagues and we'll send a message to the citizens that they should be afraid that they'll be left unscathed, that they'll be left without compensation. I just want to read the explanation because, let's say, it's a practice of colleagues who have these attitudes to leave out a sentence or a whole paragraph and then it gets a whole other connotation or something out of context. As regards privatisation and restructuring firms, it is said this way – given that the Privatisation Act provides for the privatisation process to be completed by 31 December 2015, and that this process will result in a large number of employees stopping working relations on the basis of extra employees, it is necessary to specify the provisions of this law relating to the exercise of the right to cash compensation. So this is where one concern is expressed for the number of workers who are going to be out of a job. Namely, persons whose employment relationship has ceased with the payment of cash compensation, i.e. severances in accordance with the Government's decision to set up an extra-employee resolution programme, as well as employees whose employment relationship ended with their will or guilt based a working relationship on a specific one, in practice very often a short time from two to six days, and then, in agreement with the employer, break the working relationship on which they exercise the right to cash compensation in case of unemployment which they would otherwise not be entitled to. This is an example of classic abuse. The proposed amendments and additions would prevent the above mentioned abuse of the law. The above-mentioned amendment states that these persons can exercise the right to cash compensation, so no one is abolishing it. They may have the right to cash compensation for unemployment only if they meet the conditions laid down in Article 66 of the Law, i.e. they are again secured for at least 12 months continuously or with interruptions in the last 18 months. Thus, we achieve a reduction in abuse and a truly correct atmosphere, when employed and unemployed. As for the amendments and additions to this law, it is commendable that we reduce the members of the Supervisory Board from nine to seven. It's simply meant to rationalize, someone who's malicious is going to say – well, you haven't reduced much, but a little by little, so the house is built. What I would also like to add is that this law makes it clear that users of financial social assistance have the right to compensate for the costs of sending employment applications and the right to transport costs, means when they apply for employment. So it was really worrying about the details. And in the end, I just want to say that when this law is at last we have simply regulated by one law the work of agencies that employ our workers outside our country and that's what this law has put into order of urgency. We're about to have a season of seasonal employee employment. We know what abuses took place, we know that the agencies were not responsible for any deaths, that there were terrible violations, and people were deceived, deceived, they had no right to any monetary, material or moral compensation. So, this law makes it clear what the Agency's obligations to persons who want to work abroad are, and it is very important that the costs of the competition are not borne by a worker who should be employed, but by an employer who hires that worker when it comes to an agency that intervenes in employment. In the voting day, I think there will be no dilemma that we all vote together and adopt these laws, and I would ask my opposition colleagues to make any objections they have simply express and to direct them to the Labour Committee. However, we did not have the honour of being honored by our presence, so I am very sorry, we had a nice and constructive debate, and when the Law on Sign Language, Amendments and Supplements to the Law in the event of unemployment was at stake, so I am sorry that they did not come, are always welcome to the Labour Committee, so please come, we can talk about everything, to form good amendments, good proposals to improve the laws, and in the day of the vote, the SNS parliamentary group will certainly vote for both of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26385	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (No) We are moving on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26386	Citizens and citizens of Serbia, the NS will vote for these two laws with an explanation that is very simple. Both laws respect the Serbian language, which is rare, when we have recently come up with draft laws from the government, so that is one small reason enough, and what is essential is for the Sign Language Act, which is the first time that the area is normised and of course we need to give an opportunity to make an attempt in the first law to arrange the area and we will see how it will continue to develop. The flaw in this law is that there are no clear obligations of employers to apply what the rights of people who are allowed to use sign language are, but perhaps sublegal acts will resolve it. I don't want to talk about it anymore. As for the Law, as it is formally called, on amendments and additions to the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, there is one member, a new member who is the reason why we will vote for him, and this is a member of 98a and a colleague who has mentioned this member who deals with the obligations of the agency for employment abroad, means for the employment of our citizens abroad, and so far has not had its own normative side, and it has been recently, but also in earlier times a lot of examples that our workers who went abroad have virtually gone abroad, without any rights, without any protection, and it is good to change that. Of course, we heard in an announcement of these two laws that these are two non-political laws, that they have no question of daily politics, which is of course not true. Every law is political law, there's no need to defend it at all. The National Assembly is a political institution and we are dealing with politics here and it is never good to run from politics. It's bad policy to run in a bad way, compromise it, but politics is an honorable profession. Around the board of directors, the number of members from nine to two decreases, I think they're about to abolish the boards of directors in all state institutions. What are the boards of directors for? It says here the board of directors runs the National Employment Service. So, the board of directors can't manage the National Employment Service, it works by law, by other acts adopted by the Government or by this Parliament, and this board of directors practically serves to get a position there that one can abuse, whether it comes from the Government, whether it comes from the Social-Economic Council, on either side. The state institutions are fully responsible for the government. I don't need any board of directors in that service. The Minister, the Ministry is responsible, the Prime Minister is responsible for the work of all state institutions, and not to hide behind some people, whom we first create legal conditions to be on board, then they receive some money, and then the story is - which is why they receive money, which is true, there is no need to get any compensation for it, and remains completely unclear what they serve there. What's the main topic for me today, and I'd like to hear it from the Director of the Employment Service, if he can't say it, let the minister say it, so let the minister tell us, the exact number of people employed in Serbia today. It's playing with statistics, methodologies, it's with percentages, it's up, it's down, how much of a contribution to PIO is increased, it's all things that just hide the real truth. In January 2013, 1,716,499 people were employed by the Bureau of Statistics. At the end of last year, according to the Bureau of Statistics, 169,700 and some people were employed, which is a reduction. I'm from the data I could have tried to find, so I guess I found them well, and the continuation of that reduction is this year. The reduction in the number of unemployed is due to a change in methodology and this methodology is so now that anyone who worked one day last year is being led as an employee.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26387	Time, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26388	Just one more sentence. That includes people who do informal work. In the EU, prostitutes are also recorded in this methodology. Therefore, this is not a real picture compared to how we measure unemployment and employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26389	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. I hope Mr. Pavicevic doesn't mind for these 20 seconds. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26390	To get to the exact number of employees in Serbia, the only way you can do it is to take data from the fund, so, from the PIO Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Fund and report them to the central insurance register. Don't do this, National Employment Service. The National Employment Service deals with the unemployed, deals with persons on record, not persons working. The National Employment Service has nothing to do with it. The Republic Bureau of Statistics is conducting a labour survey. The last piece of information we have is 2,32,201 employees based on the Republic Statistics Office. This is a methodology applied by the International Labour Organisation and EURSTAT. It was valid in 2012. If it wasn't good back then, it's no good now. If she was good then, she's good now. That's who she is. And it's not just about us. It also applies in Hungary, Belgium, Germany, in all EU countries. That's how the state of employment counts, based on the labour poll. That's right. The only thing I can offer you and what this country can offer you and what I see all critics cannot explain to me how it is possible, 2,062,856 people in this country on the 20th of April 2015 are paying pension contributions, paying out of a working relationship, paying off what it does. And let's just add, this isn't about going to stand-alones and farmers. These are the only ones who are from a working relationship, this is what I'm talking about. Just another little dyspression. The employer, when it comes to the Law on the Use of Sign Language, has an obligation to provide an interpreter, to request an interpreter at specific stages of a working relationship – when a contract on work is concluded, when a contract on work is terminated, when an work contract is signed, therefore, in the most important elements in the legal sense of the employer's working relationship, it is required to provide an interpreter, to address the relevant association and to provide assistance, but of course, and to be fair, in case it is the only form of communication, therefore, that it is not possible to read with lips or something like that. If you get a paper contract, you don't need an interpreter, it's read and that's enough. In any case, yes, the employer has an obligation to provide interpreters at certain stages of the working relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26391	Thank you. I apologize, Mr. Zivkovic, the statement by Mr. Minister did not allow me to have the right to reply. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26392	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I welcome my colleague, the farmer, to support these two bill proposals, so I will support them too. We have a dictionary for the race, too. As far as both laws are concerned, I will support them. I'm a little disappointed because a colleague from a party of the former regime, whose representatives rule over a quarter of the territory, in Vojvodina, is not present. Democracy isn't just about listening to itself, saying what you want and listening to yourself. It's democracy and listening to what others have to say about the subject. My colleague from the party of the former regime said what he wanted to hear and get out. He's not deaf or deaf, he's weak hearing, he doesn't want to listen to other colleagues about what they have to say. As far as the Employment Act is concerned, we can say a lot, especially about the previous period. I listened carefully to this 400-euro working rights fighter who jumped in his shoes. Many of them who rule one quarter of Serbia's territory and who ruled for 12 years in the territory of all Serbia today talk about the social rights they allegedly broadcast, but had no one to pay, because our main product in the country was debt and the debt paid rights that were broadcast without production and were thus artificial. Many of them also put a five-pointer on their social media profiles, put a five-pointer, buy an apartment in Vienna, and then talk about labour rights. It is simply unacceptable for me, and that is why I am sorry that a colleague who spoke so inspiredly about the rights of workers, a colleague from the former regime is not present at the moment, for the simple reason that he has only something to say, but has never the right, nor the obligation to listen to what some other MPs have to say. The story of social justice by members of the former regime should begin with wild privatisation, which has established not capitalism, but capitulism. After that wild, predatory privatisation, like a tsunami that went through our factories, like a tsunami that went through our businesses and, to use some expression, they cost us more than sanctions, bombings and poor uranium together. After their rule, the consequences of the government are far greater throughout Serbia's territory. Unfortunately, at least on mine, and most citizens, they still rule one-quarter of the territory. The loss of 700,000 jobs raises the question – what would happen to the Employment Act, what could the benefits now be to establish by some new law if we hadn't lost 700 000 jobs since 2000, or some indicators say so many jobs have been lost over the past 12 years? Only three years before 2012, 400,000 jobs were lost, although 200,000 jobs were said to be immediately in a previous campaign by their former party president. With those 400,000 jobs that were out in three years alone, by 2012, we would now have 400,000 contributions more in the PIO Fund, therefore, with production rights could increase the pension by 20% and there would be no need to limit the donations of certain pensions, but these pensions could actually increase by 20% if there were no such policy that 400,000 people had thrown out of the business chain and instead of being on the income side, 400,000 workers had gone to the expenditure side, they had become a social case in a certain way, and they had no desire to do so. I am sorry that a colleague from the former regime was not present, that he was not present at the moment, that we were discussing a little bit of how tycoons were produced, to tell us – whether in the last three years any tycoon was produced on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, not counting on those they established and for which we do not know what we are going to do with them or whether they have written laws or ordered laws. I'll give you an example. How many more jobs would have been if it hadn't been for the former regime's former financial director to buy three sugars for three euros. It was this tsunami, it was a wild, predatory privatisation that cost us hundreds of thousands of jobs right away. To compare, the same financial director of the former regime's party, a singer's panties paid 5,000 euros, which means that when they sovereignly ruled Serbia, the former regime's party, their financial director, otherwise known tycoon, in Serbia, one sugarcan cost 1,666 times less than his favorite singer's panties. Today, members of the same party honor the loss of jobs to those who have stopped the loss. Let them also single out how many jobs have gone missing in the last three years, and I made it clear that before 2012, in three or four years of the former regime's rule of law, 300 to 400 000 jobs disappeared and, let's say, compared to that, the euro rate jumped from 78 to 120 dinars. Let us know how much the euro has increased over the last three years, how many jobs have fallen in the last three years, and thus we will compare the rule of the former regime's party, which is still, unfortunately, going on in one quarter of Serbia's territory and comparing the rule of the current government, i.e. both governments that were created since 2012. I think it's worth supporting both of these laws, given that one is brand-new and defines sign language. Second, employment brings some newspapers. I welcome the reduction of the board members from nine to seven, and this brings such savings. We did the same thing, it seems to me, and with the Health Insurance Act, where, with 21 members, we reduced the number to seven, and out of that, the government gives four, and the three provide professional associations, so in their press they tried to upload the whole affair, because the farmer was appointed as the RFZO, which was intended for the farmer. They had 21 members before, three times as many, and instead of one farmer they had two. When the number was reduced to seven, when it was three times smaller, when we put only one farmer, that was the problem. It wasn't a problem that there was one farmer left, as a representative of the insurance company, but it was a problem that it was me. If I'd known there'd be so many attacks on me, I'd have given up my post as a fellow winemaker, a farmer. So I believe it's worth supporting these two laws. I must warn my colleagues that the difficult situation, which was inherited in 2012, is not easy, but difficult. You can't climb a ladder to success, like a party of the former regime, with your hands in your pockets. We need to do more, regardless of their criticism. It takes time for the government, as well as for the MPs to help, each from their own corner, to spend time in labor, effort and sweat, and to get out, not from capitalism, but from the capitalism that we inherited. There is a German proverb that says - you have to be patient, not in every shell of pearls, but you have to open each one. I mean, since I'm a farmer, that the path to success can only lead across the plow and rails and never again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26393	The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26394	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable representatives of the Government, I will briefly refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. In the situation that we are in, it is natural that such a law, which deals with unemployment issues, causes the interest of a large number of citizens, but we hope that this will change in the foreseeable future, i.e. we will succeed in achieving a gradual increase in employment. As for these changes and additions, they will bring in two major newspapers in the field of unemployment insurance arrangements. On the one hand, by amending Article 67, which regulates who and under what conditions has the right to compensation for unemployment, the present possibility of abuse by obtaining the right to this payment will be closed. Although I can kind of understand the motives of what was left of employment and received severance, after which everyone thinks they take care of themselves and their family, it is still impossible to ignore the fact that in this way one abuse of the essence of unemployment aid is committed and that they are drawn from the state to small funds, which would also mean to another individual through monetary giving or to encourage employment. The adoption of these amendments and additions will close the possibility of such legal adverse consequences, as the severance now will be equated to monetary unemployment benefits, and a normal condition of at least one year of work will be required to regain the right to cash compensation. Regarding this prevention of further abuses, I think it's a good thing that at the same time we're going to change Article 69, which regulates the basis for calculating the amount of compensation. If this fee is already scheduled to be paid after at least a year of contributions paid, then I think it is logical that, for the basis, which makes up the average of earnings in the pre-employment period, it takes the same period of 12 months, because the solution so far of six months has allowed the machinery to be made through fictitious increases or redistribution of paid earnings, in order to increase that base. On the other hand, after the adoption of these amendments, one very good addition will be introduced in the existing article 53, which regulates the retraining and further education of the unemployed. It is predicted that so far the rights of the unemployed, who participates in these programmes, on mandatory textbooks and transport costs, are now complemented and entitled to certain financial assistance. This change should return additional incentives to the unemployed, to be included in these programmes, but I think it is even more important that this fee, however much it may be, will psychologically raise only the evaluation of these unemployed persons, or they will realize that they are useful members of society, because their work is specifically valued, which is particularly important for young people who have spent little time on the National Employment Service records. Dear People's MPs, we at PUPS know that unemployment cannot be overcome in itself only by adopting quality legal solutions, and that there must be systematic work in many areas, but we believe that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are one good step that contributes to improving the existing legal text, removing certain legal gaps and improving the rights of unemployed persons, so in the day of voting, the PUPS parliamentary group will give its support for the adoption of this law, as well as for the adoption of a bill on the use of sign language. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26395	The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26396	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing as has already been repeatedly discussed, on two draft laws, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Security Act for the case of unemployment and on the draft law on the use of sign language. Honestly, I don't see the conditions laid down in Article 157 being met. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Mergering in the Joint Principle Search of these two draft laws, except that they are within the jurisdiction of the same ministry, so I wonder what was the reason why most voted to join in a single principled search? Could it be possible for the minister not to have to come twice to the Assembly to defend these laws or be in a hurry, and we do not know why, because of the reforms announced and the changes are not much in sight and we do not have a bill that has been promised to be in the process right now and have not yet reached the Assembly? First, I will talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. The basic law was passed in 2009 and suffered changes and additions in 2010. Since then, conditions have changed considerably in society, especially in terms of employment and the problem of addressing the problem of unemployment which is very large and which is a problem of vital importance for a large part of the population in Serbia, so it is logical that the conditions for amending and supplementing this law and adapting it to emerging conditions and modernising, as well as more efficient and quality solutions to the problem of unemployment have been achieved. The minister gave a brief opening statement, as well as reading the draft laws and arguments given under the draft law, it can be concluded that this bill changes the composition and number as well as the choice of members of the Management Board of the National Employment Service, thus reducing the number and thereby rationalising the work and spending of the funds for the work of the Management Board. Furthermore, it is possible to carry out unequivocal and efficient employment activities, by introducing staff duties at the National Employment Service, to be kept up-to-date in order to achieve and improve the performance of employment jobs. The active employment policy measures that can be created on an annual basis are being improved. Financial assistance shall be provided to the unemployed who are referred to additional training and education by the National Service, so as to pay cash aid in addition to the costs for textbooks and transport. There is a harmonisation of concepts with the Social Protection Act. By abolishing the obligation to conclude a public works contract, implementing an active employment policy measure, by concluding other types of contract. Conditions are being laid down to restore the right to cash compensation for unemployment, thus preventing abuses. The calculation of the basis for determining the amount of the unemployment fee is regulated, the suspension of payment of the cash compensation during which the unemployment-based rights rest, and when the beneficiary of the cash compensation is found in custody. It shall be possible to collect the claim made by the National Employment Service for unfounded amounts by the court, in the enforcement procedure on the basis of the decision taken by law in the administrative procedure. There is compliance with the Foreign Employment Act and the Labour Licence Regulation. It is regulated to use a uniform database from the central register from which the data is downloaded. Penalties shall be harmonised with the proposed amendments and additions, etc. I listed this all so that the minister and you respected colleagues would see that I read in detail the law and the explanation and that what I have to say, I am not speaking by heart, but after a detailed analysis of the text that is in front of us. All of what I've listed seems nice, logical, useful, rational, but only when it's viewed superficially, without deepening into the offered solutions and consequences that it's going to produce in practice. That is why the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party Together for Serbia and Green Serbia – submitted 13 amendments to the bill, which have 20 members, which we are trying to improve the text of the Bills and the functioning of the National Employment Service, as well as to protect the interests of those who remain jobless and those who are already employed, because it is a vulnerable group of citizens who already have problems with existence. First, as regards the Management Board of the National Employment Service, under the demagogue of rationalisation, the legislator changed Article 1 to Article 12 relating to the Management Board of the National Service, to composition, choice, decision-making and other issues. In the light of the above, the Proposer states that such a solution would be rationalised with regard to the number of members of the Management Board by reducing the number of board members from nine to seven. We believe that an existing solution is more acceptable than that offered by the legislator for a number of reasons. First, it is not seen what a concrete rationalisation is done in relation to the current situation, as the number of members does not decrease from nine to seven, but in fact decreases from eight to seven. So it's only for one member, because according to current and current law, the Director of the National Employment Service has been a member of the Management Board, so the number of elected members is eight, not nine. The second thing that may be even more important is the way in which the election, i.e. the right to propose members of the Management Board offered in the draft law, will lead to the fact that members of the Management Board are largely extended hands not even of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but of the minister responsible for employment affairs. According to the existing solution, four elected members were appointed to the government and four other members by the Social Economic Council, while the director was acting as members. Now, according to the solution offered, more than half, including the chairman of the Management Board, the minister proposes, while the impact of the Social Economic Council, which includes trade unions and employers, is being reduced and representatives of the Social Economic Council are in the minority board. Amendments and additions to the remaining laws reduce the rights of unemployed people so far, which in particular has a dramatic shape, when given last year's changes in the ZOR, as well as a reduction in earnings and a fall in employment. For example, in Article 6 the proposer abolishes the obligation of an employer to organise public works to conclude a work contract for a specified period of time. It is argued that the reason why the proponent's wish to enable the employer to engage the unemployed on the basis of other non-contracts, however, did not achieve his intention, but only predicted that the employer did not have to, and then probably will not conclude any work contract. It should be anticipated that public works should be carried out on the basis of one of the employment contracts. It does not have to be under the labour contract, but not to lift any indication that the employer is obliged to conclude a contract on employment. This leaves open space for the gray zone. In Article 7, the proposer abolished the right to cash compensation not only to persons in the privatisation process but to all persons declared to be technologically excess by the Government, who made compensation or compensation in excess of the law of a certain severance. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the current circumstances are significantly different from the circumstances that existed at the time of the adoption of the law, which is now changing. In fact, layoffs have been announced in the public sector, where wages have been cut dramatically in the meantime. Meanwhile, the Labour Act was amended and the amount of severance was reduced by law, while special laws reduced profits, which further affect the amounts of severance. So if such a solution were to be accepted, technological surpluses would be left without the right to cash compensation, if they were to receive severances that were significantly less than they would have been a year ago, e.g. the basis for the cash compensation. The promoter has also made a shift in relation to the current situation in determining the basis for calculating the amount of cash compensation. Certain cases are not precisely regulated. However, its solution will be difficult to damage certain categories of employees. The basis for calculating the fee is the average profit and that is not disputed, the length of the period on which the average earnings are calculated is disputed. With the existing six months, it extends to 12 months. In a society where employment is stable and certainly would not be a problem, but given that in Serbia citizens are employed for a certain time and are very often released, this period is extremely long. The serious problem is what is taken as the basis of the account when the employer did not pay the salary, pay the contributions and taxes to the unemployed person. The proposer in this situation predicts that the cash compensation will be paid at the lowest amount, so as a basis, it takes a minimum profit, not what was the minimum income of an unemployed person. The unemployed is double damaged, first by the employer and then by the state and without their guilt. An employer who has not accounted for, and thus has paid the contributions, still has a debt to the state and state, if he has a good will, to collect this debt. There is no reason why an unconscious employer does not settle the obligation of an unemployed person to suffer the consequences. With regard to the way the law is passed, I wanted to say that it says in the explanation – adoption of this law by emergency procedure, without holding a public debate, but a number of direct talks with interested persons have been carried out. The draft law has been sent to all relevant authorities in the process of determining. I want to ask the minister - who are those interested persons? What are the relevant authorities? And who is it that is authorized to assess that there is no need for public debate, to involve the general public and has a discretionary right to determine which persons are interested and what are the relevant authorities? So we believe that there was no basis for an emergency procedure and for avoiding public debate, because as much as it says in the explanation, it is in a hurry because of the privatisation that is due to be completed by the end of 2015, and by then it was time to implement all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26397	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26398	Mr. Chairman, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. I highly respect the previous speaker as industrious and valuable and we have known each other for a very long time and we share these MPs' benches, but what you hurt the Rules of Procedure is that you had to warn Mrs. Hasanovic that we established the agenda yesterday. That this is a whole other topic now. The merger of the agenda of the Law on the Use of Sign Language and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment is logical and normal because it comes from the same ministry. I would also remind you, Mr. Chairman, to remind all those MPs who are bothered by, well, when two points of the agenda are combined, to remind them that on May 5th 2010, it meant when they joined the 94th agenda. So the Beer Act is joined up with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privatisation Agency. What does beer and the Privatisation Agency have to do with anything besides privatizing everything like they were on beer? What does the Law on the Protection of Peoples have to do with exposure to tobacco smoke to the Law on Forests, unless some picnicer burns down the forest? Law confirming the European Convention on the Protection of Pets with the postal service law? Ninety-four. So, on 29 May 2009, 64 points of the agenda. So we have a relationship, we have a relationship, Mr. Vulin, the Law on Broadcasting with the Animal Well-being Act? I think it's quite logical. It's a general product safety law with the ethanol Act, and all that, along with the Road Traffic Safety Act. So to all those who disturb these points of the agenda, I'm going to give you future, Mr. Chairman, here I'm going to give you all these papers to have with you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26399	Time. Thank you, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26400	... have professional services so that you can remind the MPs of what it means to work by the rules and by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26401	Thank you. Mr. Granny, I have to give you an answer, although the answer has already been given. Every MP has the right to propose a merger of debates. Also, the Assembly has made a decision, and now it is pointless to talk about it, and yet some MPs have short memories or quickly forget, so there is nothing I can do to help. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26402	Thank you, Your Honor. So you've re-injured Article 104, which speaks of it in the last position that the replica can't last longer than two minutes. I know you love the head of your MP group very much, but in the meantime, that love may have decreased, so his rights to replication...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26403	How long did it last? Excuse me, Mr. Djurishich? It lasted two seconds before I said it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26404	It took two minutes and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26405	Well, you can't do that. Don't tell the truth, Mr. Djurishic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26406	So, two minutes and 15 seconds ago, two minutes and forty-five seconds ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26407	Mr. Djurisic, you just used those two seconds to have the basis now to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to try to replicate what Mr. Babic said and resent me as chairman in the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26408	Can I go on now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26409	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26410	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26411	I'd ask you to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26412	I speak only the truth and in no word so far in this minute and 10 seconds, with you talking for 30 seconds, I did not speak about what Mr. Babic was saying. So, all I'm talking about is the time your club head has for the replica...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26413	Of those two seconds that went over two minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26414	... The head of your MP club who obviously can speak as much as he wants because he knows that you won't distract him that the line right can last for up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26415	You know very well that I interrupted him after two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26416	You let him speak for two minutes and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26417	That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26418	I only see progress with two minutes and 45 seconds has dropped to two minutes and 15 seconds. That's good. You're going in the right direction, but I'm asking you again to have the same archaic towards each of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26419	You told a lie, Mr. Gursich. We'll check with the service technique. It went through at the moment of my saying two seconds that he was out of time and at the same time I turned it off... You're telling the truth, Mr. Gursich. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You are telling the truth. The word has a minister. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You did not ask me if I wanted to make a statement to the Assembly? ( b) Do you want the congregation to declare itself? Yeah. ( b) The congregation will declare itself. Will you accept the Parliament's decision? The word has a minister. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure... (Biljana Hasanovic Korac throws out of place. ) Because, Mrs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, we have the order as MPs log in and I see that Mr Babic has applied before you. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26420	Article 107, Mr. Chairman, the dignity of the National Assembly. When someone tries to put a patch on someone's mouth and not speak in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it represents repression, it represents tyranny, it represents an anti-democracy process. As far as I am going to speak in the National Assembly is determined by the Rules of Procedure, but most importantly, the election results are determined by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I will not apologize to Mr. Chairman, no one in this room because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, believing in SNS and Alexander Vukic's policies, have given such support that we have a time of 163 minutes to talk about every law, and those of the former workers who have worked so materially and well that they have barely skipped and barely crossed the censorship and given them time of 14 minutes and 34 seconds I will not apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26421	Mr. Granny, you have to point out the way I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26422	But I will also not allow anyone to put a patch on my mouth and not allow us to speak, any of our fellow Members and colleagues, the respected MPs of the SNS, but other parliamentary groups as well, because this is the humiliation of democracy, the humiliation of parliamentaryism, the humiliation of Serbian citizens who define who, as well as what policy they want in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26423	Mr Babic, as hard as I try, some MPs cannot understand the meaning of this topic, the meaning of this high house, and do not resort to such things as you now think that I, as chairman, should make it impossible. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26424	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just because we understand the importance of this topic, I call for a violation of article 108. You've injured Article 108, you're required to take care of the order at the session. You gave Mr. Babic a word for hurting the Rules of Procedure, and you allowed him to replicate all the time after my speech. You also injured a 107 member in a commentary after his speech, when you said that some MPs here had short memories. You are not authorized to comment on our speeches, and we have the right to express our opinion. I knew it was voted, and I said that most voted, but I have the right to express my opinion in voting for the unification of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26425	It is you, Mrs Hasanovic Korać, who, according to the Rules of Procedure, is my duty to injure the Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament. You're now denying me the opportunity to simply say that there's no way for an MP who has a short memory not to let him say it. So you're challenging me now. (Biljana Hasanovic Korać, from the place: You can't say he has a short memory. Don't throw it away. I respect you very much, and don't throw it out of the bench. You can see on the cameras how you do it and how you comment on what I'm saying. I'm not going to say your name now, because I don't want to advertise you like that, but your age and my decency is that we don't replicate in this way right now, you guys from the bench and me from this place. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Yeah. ) I would ask you to be present to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as has not been practiced so far. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26426	Thank you, Chairman. You've hurt it like this, first Article 103. - The President of the National Assembly shall be obliged to abuse the rights provided for in Articles 108 to 111 of this Rules of Procedure to a national MP who does not comply with the provisions laid down in Articles 1, 2, 4 and 6 or in another obvious way. On my advertising to the Rules of Procedure that the replica cannot last longer than two minutes, because that is how it stands in the Rules of Procedure, the MP spoke of the election results and the time each parliamentary group has. It has nothing to do with what I said. So he directly abused her. (Zoran Babic, from the scene: And who replicated? ) He replicated, as he is now in violation of the Rules of Procedure by throwing it out of the bench, and you are not allowed to say anything to him. I understand your fear, I believe you will be encouraged by the end of this term.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26427	Mr. Djurishic, I have nothing but fear of your threats. I have no other fear.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26428	So, I ask you again to follow this Rules of Procedure as it is written, not to interpret it creatively, as you have tried today 45 seconds to take away from some time, which this Rules of Procedure does not give you the opportunity, as this Rules of Procedure does not give you the opportunity to comment on whether someone has longer or shorter memories, less or greater brains or similar things. If you want to engage in a discussion, use Article 100, which you have injured now that you have responded to my colleague Mrs. Hasanovic Korać, and say in the debate what you have to say. Don't make any comments from that place.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26429	Time, thank you. (Marco Djurisic, from the post: You can only talk about whether you feel that you have hurt the Rules of Procedure with your behaviour and whether we can plead. Here you see, you spoke seven seconds more than two minutes. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: with the microphone off. Once you turn off the microphone, you contact me. ) Mr. Djurishic, as according to the Rules of Procedure, it's not like you're replicating with me right now. Mr. Djurisic, it was a few minutes ago, so you know that in Mr. Babic's speech, when I thought he was violating the Rules of Procedure, not to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I warned him and Mr. Babic later finished his presentation. So don't tell the truth, Mr. Djurisic, as you are contesting my right to answer the question whether or not I violated the Rules of Procedure I am giving my argument that I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure and that I don't think I've violated the Rules of Procedure. You can't deny that right by the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djurishic, no matter how hard you try. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26430	In short, when it comes to the integration of these two laws, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has passed the Law on the Ministry to whom it has placed persons with disabilities and employment policy and combat issues and social issues, so that the size of this ministry certainly justifies that these two laws are present together in the National Assembly today. For those who do not know, the Labour Ministry cares about three million and three hundred thousand Serbian citizens, and there are fewer than 15,000 total employees. So, it's the Ministry, and that's why it's going to continue to happen that we have laws that act differently, but basically they have connections, how this law, specifically, excuse me, and people with disabilities...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26431	Mrs. Karavidic, don't throw away the minister while he's taking the stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26432	Go ahead, don't bother me. There's always something more interesting. So people with disabilities are also part of employment policies. This is the Employment Act, we will include over 5,000 people with disabilities this year. Many of them will be deaf or deaf. So this is completely logical and completely justified. As for who we talked to, we talked to all the representatives of the Social-Economic Council several times, the working groups worked on it, they had their objections to it. Of course, we've also talked to relevant experts. Most importantly, this law is passed by emergency procedure because, now we can say freely in this case, time is money. The severance has received 11,575 people, theoretically watching 11,575 people can now conclude a six-day working relationship and provide a further 12 months of compensation from the NSZ on the seventh day. Who's gonna pay for that? We don't have that money and that money isn't meant for it, so it's urgent to prevent possible abuses that have already begun to occur. Fortunately for our country, the vast majority of these 11,575 people have not thought to do so, because they are honest and honorable people who will not take anyone else's crust of bread, but for those who might think or wish it would not be possible by passing this law. If we'd gone through the regular procedure, we'd have had at least 21 more days to get money from the state budget that doesn't belong to them, because it's not meant for that kind of thing. There, that's the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26433	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26434	Honored chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, my distinguished counterpart, Mirjana Dragas, expressed the view of the SPS Parliamentary Group on the proposal for both laws. I'll just say it again -- the parliamentary group will support both draft laws and vote for them in the voting day. I just want to look back briefly and say a few more words when it comes to the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. Before that, I would like to say that the Employment and Insurance Act for unemployment is an important law that is very important for employment, for increasing employment and for preventing long-term unemployment. I'm just going to be here for a little while to hold on to a few details. It is commendable, however anyone interprets it, if 3% of the unemployed are less than last year, but the figure of 766 thousand is still large. What I want is to support the government that these issues are at the top of the government's activity agenda. We all see the great day-to-day struggle that the government is fighting, and everyone in it, to attract every penny, every euro, every investor, and everything with the aim of investing, with the goal of opening new jobs, and there is no more important task and job in Serbia than hiring people. When it comes to unemployment, I don't want to interpret them, but there are significant figures if unemployment from 20.8 fell to 16.8. And I don't want to go on about it. If it's an increase in employment, as a significant issue in this area, and I don't want to talk about it, but I simply want to repeat to the public the fact that 2 million 62,000 people pay in April contributions from employment, without farmers, without independence. I'm not talking about amounts, I'm not talking about money, I'm talking about being rough, I'm talking about pieces -- two million 62,000 faces. So, 60,000 more. However much anyone interprets that area, I want to say publicly - bravo. Doesn't that deserve support when it comes to government activity in this area? Speaking of what the Employment and Insurance Act is important for this area, let me also say that this law contains five areas right now. One is the identification of jobs of employment and the identification of holders of these jobs, the other is the determination of the rights and obligations of unemployed and employers, the third is an active employment policy, the fourth is insurance for unemployment and the fifth are other issues of importance for employment, such as records, employment abroad, etc., etc. Proposed changes and additions to the law snake each and every once in a while. It's not a big change, but it also has meaning as a message, it's important to solve some problems, it's important to specify some things. I'll look back at three questions. First, when it comes to one of these areas – the job carrier, it refers to the National Employment Service and it only stops at two things that I think are good. One is a reduction in the number of board members from nine to seven, and I guess that's undeniable. Secondly, the more important and more important I think, it is predicted that employees are obliged to improve constantly, to do their jobs more successfully. Why is that significant? It is important because this should already be one beginning of a continuous process of raising the capacity of employees' work and, of course, raising the quality of services of the National Service, both for employers and for the unemployed. And what is most important is the need to adapt very quickly to the National Employment Service on the labour market. Another thing I want to point out, which is again one of the areas regulated by the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, these are active employment policies. I think this part of the change is very important, for the simple reason it opens up new possibilities, it looks more flexiblely at creating these measures. It opens new opportunities in terms of adapting very quickly to the labour market as well as to local labour markets. What is also very important is that, within the framework of the programme, the measures the National Employment Service is working on are now being introduced and measures, i.e. the amount of costs for each measure. You know, no measure of active employment policy can be implemented without any costs. Secondly, what is important is that the obligation to keep track of what is planned is, as it is realized, thus extracting experience and proposing new measures. I think it's a step forward and it gives a chance for a greater coverage of the unemployed. And by the way, the numbers say the same thing. Last year there were 108,000 people planned for this year, 130,000 people and a far higher amount of funds. I'll only be here for two more questions for a little while. One measure of active employment policy is the measure of additional education and training. In addition to the fees provided so far in terms of the costs of textbooks, transportation, etc., monetary assistance is also proposed, which I consider to be a new, good solution and should be supported. One significant measure of active employment policy is public works. I don't think that's even used enough and there's a chance and a place for a much bigger coverage. And we need to affirm that measure of active employment policy. What can cause, here, is already causing controversy, it is that the employer is no longer obliged to amend the law to conclude a work contract for a certain time, but that "any kind of contract can comply with the rules of the work area". I think that sentence could have found a place in this law instead. So any kind of contract, in accordance with the rights in the field of working relations and the story would be clear and there wouldn't be any dilemmas. I hope that in the course of further debate, during the debate on amendments, we will certainly correct it. Because here the goal was to enable a wider coverage, not just one. Of course, all these contracts are foreseen by the Labour Act. What I'm trying to say is, when it comes to unemployment benefits. I have to remind you of one basic thing that we must not overlook, regardless of what there are many problems in practice, dissatisfaction or damage, etc. The cash unemployment fee is a right which, under certain conditions, upon termination of a working relationship, results in a person who was necessarily insured in the event of unemployment. And later on, you'll see, it's bound to mandatory security. But, from mandatory insurance, from the means of compulsory insurance, they come out and they can draw these rights. If that's not there, how can those rights be paid off? By the way, last year, 63,105, I think, was receiving this cash compensation. The amendments relate to conditions for the exercise of the right to cash compensation for certain categories of unemployed persons. In order to specify what is considered a basis and to determine how a cash compensation is calculated, and I will only briefly join this region in terms of conditions for the exercise of the right to cash compensation. Please, what's changing here? It doesn't change anything. It's adding up. Article 67 provides that the person whose employment relationship, whether by his will or by his fault, or by whom a working relationship has ceased on the basis of a severance which is greater than the compensation established by the Labour Act, cannot do so as a compensation until they have met the conditions laid down in the previous article, Article 66, which is 12 months uninterrupted or 18 months with an interruption. What's so ugly about that? What's diminishing? That formation has so far been that these categories have no right to cash compensation. Now it's just being defined that it can't be abused. If we're talking about a reduction, then we should say, it's diminishing the possibility of abuse. In the end, I want to look back completely, in my opinion, on perhaps the most significant change in this law, and it concerns amendments to the law on working abroad. We have witnessed many examples, many abuses. I think this is good, but I think it would be even better if the Ministry and the Government thought about passing a special law on the employment of our workers abroad, precisely because of the specificity of this whole thing. To remind, the current, applicable Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act also defines several members of the issue, it sets out the national service and agency to intervene, as well as here, in providing work, obliges the national service and the agency to provide protection for persons employed abroad. The most important thing is, let's say, that this is at least equal treatment based on working with nationals of the state of employment, permits, costs, information on living and working conditions, rights and obligations of work, etc., on the obligation to notify opportunities and conditions of employment, on working conditions and on working conditions, rights and obligations, forms and methods of protection in accordance with the contract, as well as on the rights to return from work. Exactly the addition of this law is that this was not fully respected. So, with this change and addition, the agency is bound, although I don't see why the national service would not make the same commitment, as well as the agencies, to specify responsibility for persons who intervene in employment abroad, and from the point of view of legality, of course, from the point of view of working conditions, etc., especially if they haven't given them all possible information and notices before that. I think this is very important and that it's well-responsive to all the problems and examples we've had lately in practice. I don't want to go any further, I'll be back to square one. We will support the proposed amendments to these two laws. We've given these well-intentioned suggestions in order to come up with even better solutions, not to fall into the essence that this government has rightly set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26435	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word has a minister in the government, Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26436	As for your concerns, in the sense that the employer can conclude the contract in another way, not just for a certain time, we agree with you. We'll find a proper formulation, in accordance with the Labour Act. So, all that's provided for by the Labour Act, and that's the legislator's intensity, all the forms of bargaining can be done here as well. So no problem, it'll be like that. You mentioned hiring our workers abroad. This ministry has already started working on it. A working group is formed, social partners are involved in the task force. The law will not be passed by emergency procedure. There's no reason to adopt an emergency procedure. So, there's time for him, and we'll all have opportunities in a public debate to make a statement about him. I expect we'll adopt him this summer. What was the degree of irresponsibility when it came to our workers abroad, I must tell you that for the last time this matter was regulated by the 1998 Law. So far, no one's thought of doing it. We began to deal with it even before the tragic events encouraged us to speed things up. Also, we're passing another important law that also applies, and it's a law on temporary employment agencies. Now, that's an extremely important law. It's a law that will certainly be full of controversy, they'll be in these benches, which, of course, I look forward to. There will be, of course, public debates and social partners and everyone else who wants to get involved, but that's what's wrong with the Labour Act. If there is something wrong with the Labour Act, it is not right that we have not put an end to the pressure for temporary employment agencies to be regulated in the Labour Act. It's a key thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26437	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26438	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, reading the reasons of the Employment Act, MPs and citizens of Serbia may be mistaken that it is a law of dismissal because one view of the argument says the Privatisation Act provides for the completion of the privatisation process by 31 December 2015. "In 2015, a significant number of workers are expected to stop working, and thus an even greater inflow of cash compensation users. “ Mr. Minister, I think you should have proposed a law that can help people get jobs, which can help ensure better protection of users of compensation and persons who are kept unemployed on the record, and makes me think that one member, Article 5, which is good, is insufficient for one such law. It is also a good intention to arrange the business of agencies employed abroad, but I think the proposed measures, the proposed legal solutions, are not strong enough to make it possible. In that sense, we have submitted certain amendments. I think you're right that this debate should be guided by arguments and that we should focus on how people can get to work in Serbia and how to get jobs, especially in the real sector, not only in the public sector and only in party employment. In that sense, I started with the exact data and I took a website from the Ministry of Industry and I want to present some information now and I want to simply inform you and the public of what I found there. The number of employees, according to the Department of Industry's records, is decreasing. From 2011 through 2012 and 2013 – from 1,746,000 to 1,697,000. That's almost 50,000 less employees if we go by numbers. The number of unemployed also decreased by 4,000. It's very interesting then how the unemployment rate fell. I think it's quite clear that it's a methodology, that people are no longer on record, that it's the only way to say that the percentage of the unemployed is smaller on the record. I don't think you as a minister are the sole responsibility for this information. This government, this government, which has been on the scene for three years and is entering the fourth in May, generally has no measures that can contribute to an increase in employment, especially in the real sector, the Ministry of Economy said. Here's the Department of Industry's data. The number of employees in companies has dropped from 1,018,000 to 991,000 since 2011, and the number of entrepreneurs has dropped from 20,600 to 18,900. The number of employees in the enterprise has dropped from 45,000 to 43,000. These are exact data, these are arguments, but the question is, what are the small funds used for employment being spent on? I say small funds because you, Mr. Minister, didn't fight to make them bigger. They have been reduced multiple in previous years since 2011 when 36,619 people used employment funds. We came to 2014 when only 9,600 people or with eight billion and 980 million came to three billion and 804 million. That, Mr. Minister, is your concern for the unemployed. It's your concern about how Serbian citizens can find a job. This is explained to you by this boy in Uzic when you were visiting the Student House, and that the public is a little better informed about how you ran the Office for Kosovo, or the report by the DRI, which says – that it expresses its opinion with the Business Audit Reserve of your Office in 2013 because you hired persons by contracts of work in a larger number than the number of prescribed law on determining the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration. That's what the fact is, and that's what the fact is, because if companies and entrepreneurs have reduced the number of employees in their companies, it means that the only public sector employment is, and everyone in Serbia knows that even small children. That is also said by the IMF, which has the darkest forecast for Serbia compared to the whole region, in Europe, where they say that in addition to GDP's decline this year, we will also have an increase in unemployment in the coming year. It's something no one should be looking forward to, but Mr. Minister, we don't see any solutions in your bill. If you only wanted to discuss something, you should not have suggested reducing the impact of the Social Economic Council, depriving the presence of the board of directors from union and employers' ranks and keeping the number of board members in front of the government. I think it's just cosmetics because the director is no longer a member of the board of directors, it's a reduction for one. Then you removed one from the Social Economic Council, the other members of the board of directors in front of the government, and you took off the obligation legally to make two representatives from the Social Economic Council from the ranks of employers and two from the unions. Now those four representatives can be in front of the government, and that no longer limits the law. It is also something that is not expected of you to propose in a situation like this in Serbia. There's something else I want to say about the region I'm from. I think the exact data you've been looking for, and they're talking about my region exactly how the state refers to the unemployed in those areas. The region of Šumadija and Western Serbia have been reduced from four billion and 300 million to two billion and 800 million since 2011. Raski County from 489 million to 152 million, three times, Mr. Minister. New Pazar, where the prime minister was also King the other day, once large industrial centers. Employment incentives in the Kingdom from 227 million to 75 million in 2014, so that's a reduction almost three times. That's your concern for the unemployed. This is what the citizens of Serbia need to know, and we from the DS will see how you will react to the amendments we have submitted, so we will see if we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26439	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26440	Until a robbery privatisation was conducted in the King, it was a major industrial centre. Until the previous regime robbed the King, until he destroyed Magnochrom until he destroyed the "Vagonka" until he destroyed everything he could get in the robbery privatisation, the King was a major industrial centre. We are struggling with the consequences of this robbery privatisation as the citizens of the Kings still struggle with an outrageous robbery when it comes to the King's earthquake. They're still fighting it, but they're also fighting the judicial authorities. All right, let's let them work. You know, there's no law that can hire. There's no law to order someone to get a job. I can't even raise salaries or pensions but only the market and only work unless in 2008 to get elections, we're making an increase in salaries and pensions today from the increase in these salaries and pensions. Now, that's what law can do. So we could pass the law by which we say - let's get a job, no employment restrictions, we'll hire as many as we want, whatever we want, and then what we don't care about, let's get another election. That's how it's done, that's not how it's gonna work, and this law sure as hell doesn't work. You know, we also provided what was read that a certain number of people would be extra, we predicted money for the severance of these people. We predicted money that they would not be found on the street, but that money would not be enough if the rights were misused and not to go to those who needed it but to leave for the old law solution so that everyone could take the severance, as some officials of some opposition parties did, to take the severance if needed and then after that, and to apply to the National Employment Service. This money is enough for the workers we predicted, that no one should be left unrequited, that no one should be on the street, but it is not enough to double that money, triple it by one man. That's why this is important, and that's why this is responsible. That's how we behave. I noticed that the greatest passion I see in the amendments to the Employment Act produced the number of seats on boards. Some people like administrative administrations. They like to be on boards and downsizing numbers, reducing the ability to be on boards in them is a terrible thing to do. They're just angry. Sorry, under the past law, there were four representatives of the Social Economic Council, four representatives of the government and a director. So, and then the government had absolute control. What's changing here? Nothing, two salaries were saved plus I still don't understand how you didn't object, that no one was complaining that the Director of the National Employment Service was controlling itself, managing its work and sitting on the Management Board of the National Employment Service. He can't do that anymore. That's good. That's good. That's good. The Social Economic Council, again we return to the need to prepare for the sessions, there is a Law on the Social Economic Council. The Social Economic Council has a mechanism to determine its representatives on boards, what is the National Employment Service. It's not regulated by this law, it's already regulated by another law. This law only regulates the number of seats on the board of directors, and how it will be fulfilled when it comes to our partners from the Social Economic Council, it is regulated by the Social Economic Council Act and it has nothing to do with this law. Unfortunately, I've been saying it twice or three times. I wish no one was looking forward to the black forecasts. I wish we could all cheer for our country as we were, remember that for our country a devastating example when the Council of Europe came out with a statement and said that the Labour Act is anti-European, that it is not in line with European recommendations, that it is extremely bad, that it is against the recommendations of the International Labour Organisation and that one political party immediately ran and brought a statement – here's evidence, we were against this Labour Act, the most embarrassing law, the whole government to resign, all of us to resign, and then there was an explanation. I'm sorry, but it's the law that passed this very party and it's the law that we and this parliament have changed. As they were then looking forward to thinking that something bad was going to happen to their country because they had passed a bad Labour Act so I wouldn't want them to look forward to the black forecasts or the bad forecasts coming from the IMF or any other organisation or part of the world. Cheer for your country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26441	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. Mr. Jovanovic, you have no right to a replica, no conditions have been created. (Ivan Jovanovic, from the scene: I am sorry but I am misread. ) Neither is the party mentioned nor are you mentioned personally nor is it mentioned anyone. (Gordana Comić, from the place: Please, why does he not have the right to reply? ) Mrs. Comic, are you saying the party, name or anyone? Please, let's not convince ourselves anymore, Mr. Jovanovic, there are no conditions for replication. Thank you. The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26442	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Insurance Act, is, in my opinion, a timely reaction by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic and the Ministry of Labour and Employment, the martial and social issues led by Minister Aleksandr Vulin. The problems that have arisen so far in the application of this law and also in preparation for the following developments, which are defined as priority in the Prime Minister's exhibition and the policy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to increasing the number of employees on the one hand, and on the other hand to address the problems of the company's work, the completion of privatisation and implementation of the announced procedures for the rationalisation of jobs in the state and local administration, and in the public enterprises which are the founder of the state, the Region or local self-government, where they will inevitably have to address the legal status of employees. These allegations also confirm the following facts by the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, in Article 7. The Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs identified the amount for the transfer to the National Employment Service, the funding of the programme and the active employment policy measures. A financial plan for 2015, with projections for 2016 and 2017 for funding programmes and measures of active employment policy. The Privatisation Act provides for the completion of the privatisation process by 31 December 2015 and in 2015, a significant number of workers whose work will stop the need and thus an even greater inflow of cash compensation users are expected. In view of the above, the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015 has defined the means to resolve the working-legal status of extra employees. The funds for the resolution of surplus staff from the budget are paid in accordance with the decision made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, except this – the bill tries to solve and current developments. We were certainly witnesses of the ugly scenes of several months ago, which were made by our construction workers throughout Russia at times of infringing immense earnings and under inhuman conditions for work, both in terms of climate, and in unauthorized working times, without basic hygiene and protective means, and therefore, in view of this, it has changed the existing way of regulating the obligations and responsibilities of the Employment Agency, where the more detailed obligations and responsibilities of the persons who intervened for employment abroad, and especially in cases where their early return from the country in which they were referred to. As for the damage suffered by the employee, which is caused by false information on the essential elements of living and working conditions in the country in which the person is referred to work. The application of the existing law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment has shown both technical and administrative disadvantages, as well as the unsolicited possibilities for the management of court disputes due to the inaccuracy of the established norms, and some issues are defined more fully and quality through the proposed amendments. Article 7 regulates the conditions for regaining the right to cash compensation for unemployment insurance and also prevents previously observed abuses in the application of Article 67 of the Law. Namely, persons whose employment relationship has ceased with the payment of cash compensation, i.e. severances in accordance with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the establishment of the programme, the settlement of surplus employees as well as employees whose employment relationship ended with their will or guilt, are based on a working relationship on a set in practice often very short, from two to six days, and then, in agreement with the employer, break the relationship on which they exercise the right to cash compensation for a case of unemployment which they would otherwise not be entitled to. The proposed amendments and additions shall prevent the above mentioned abuses of the law and shall be specified that these persons may exercise the right to cash compensation in the event of unemployment only if they meet the conditions laid down in Article 66 or re-ensure at least 12 months uninterrupted or with interruptions in the last 18 months. Article 10 is added to a new position in Article 72 of the Law to prevent problems in practice relating to the exercise of the right to cash compensation in the event of unemployment for 24 months, to meet the first conditions for the exercise of pension rights in accordance with the rules on PIO. That amendment would be based on an appropriate individual act by the Republic of PIO Fund. This legal solution would prevent the problems encountered in practice, as in most cases data entered into the workbook by the employer and despite the fact that it is often not in agreement with the data contained in the birth records of the Republic Fund for PIO, which can lead to legal pensions and the right to cash compensation of 24 months. The bill contains two important provisions – employment and unemployment insurance. The first defines active employment policy measures as a dynamic rather than a static process, which means that the measures are constantly monitored and appropriate analyses are changed and adapted, primarily to the needs of the local labour market and species and the scope of the regional establishment of the economy and thus trying to find the best and most optimal solutions for employment in accordance with the law. The second represents the country's great concern for the individual and its preservation in the moments of major life changes caused by the loss of work itself. The proposed amendments to the laws make significant contributions and improves both segments of the existing law and adapts it to the needs of today's time, as well as to the economic situation of our country, as well as the perspective of its development. On the basis of the reasons set out above, I believe that the solutions offered on the draft employment law and on insurance for unemployment are improving this very important area both at the state level and at the level of each individual and there are no obstacles to its adoption. And in voting day, the SNS will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26443	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic. I'm sorry, DrPavic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becicu, the Honorable Ministers of Vulin and the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry and the National Employment Service. I have prepared five notes on our debate today on these two draft laws, two previous ones, and three regular notes, gentlemen. The first previous note goes directly to Minister Vulin, I am sorry that Minister Vulin did not answer all the questions he has raised here on the first draft of the law by MP Zoran Zivkovic, I also believe that the citizens expected to hear the exact answer to one and more of the questions asked here by Mr Zivkovic. The second previous note, gentlemen, also goes to Minister Voulina. The new party will vote for these two proposals, but I am not sure Minister Vulin that SNS MPs will vote all for this proposal, here only to show here in the order of MPs according to the application for the word – SNS v, on one page, on the other side of the SNS – yes, Minister Vulin, and on the third page of the SNS – without the "yes" or "no". So, the SNS on these two proposals, Mr. Vulin, goes into three columns as far as I can tell from this paper. That would cause me one concern if I were a minister. That's the second previous note, gentlemen. I'm going over these regular notes now. On the grounds of this proposal, the Sign Language Act. First note, the value of this bill, respected gentlemen, is to improve the position of deaf persons and there is no doubt that with this bill, this is the basic reason why we NS MPs are going to vote for this bill. A second regular note, the minister showed here during today's debate one doubt that MPs are dedicated to reading, analysing and interpreting these bill proposals. Here, Minister Vulin, I have carefully, devotedly interpreted, read, analyzed this bill. And what did I notice as one note to tell you here and if I'm going to vote yes? I noticed that I was in the text of the law finding, I think, a pile of excess words cityally. For example, in Article 2. Proposal of the law, be careful what Article 2 reads. – first in seven rows one sentence, but come on, I will cut short, says – This law provides for the achievement of the Constitution of guaranteed basic principles relating to the enjoyment of human rights, and especially, etc. What was the problem, gentlemen, that we have one sentence that would read like this – this law provides for the achievement of the Constitution of guaranteed human rights, and that anyone who reads absolutely understands what this is about? This is how one who reads must be on the first chapter of the Constitution, principles, so there are many principles and divisions of power, and then on the second chapter, human rights. And here we have clear instructions. I think it's okay. Or, Mr. Vulin, here's to show you how many MPs, oppositions, above all, carefully read every word, every sentence, and in the light of the laws you send. Here, and in my explanation, I have observations, the introductory part, 15 paragraphs of which six paragraphs begin in the following way "in the sense of the above", "also in the sense of the above", "also in terms of possibilities", that is not our sentence structure, gentlemen. This is not a sentenceary structure that we use in Serbian, and one of the most important values in our country is the issue of our language. We need to pay attention to that in the congregation. The last note, Honored Minister Vulin, often uses the modal verb “powers”. Here, I have a dictionary right here, says – power, can, can, can, can be able to do, have, power, power for something. You in law, for example, use that verb in Articles 9, 11 and 14. Here, Article 9 says – Educational educational work in institutions of education and education and studies at a higher education institution can be done in sign language. Be careful what I conclude, and when we read the other members of the 11th and 14th, we see that the law is not absolute. It concerns the possibility of a certain means being made available. That's what we have now as a possibility. And now there's something he can do. But when it comes to the Constitution of guaranteed rights, something must, must, I think, respected gentlemen, and Minister Vulin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26445	I thank you, sir. That's what lawyers can explain to you, that's legal rubber terms, but you're a politician, Mr. Pavicevic. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. Replica, on what basis, Mr. Granny? (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: The mention of SNS three times. ) Head of the SNS parliamentary group, to mention the party, replica two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26446	Mr. Chairman, I have a lot of Montenegrin friends, wonderful people, decent people, but when Montenegrins talk about the Labour Act, I think everyone in Serbia gets a chill, hair gets on their heads, and that's part of the folklore and part of the joke, and I understand why Mr. Bozovic is also reporting in all of this. I followed closely today's session. I saw and listened to Mr. Zivkovic's presentation, remembered the sentence that there were no objections to this law, and now the remarks have his deputy. I'm already seeing a split, I'm already seeing a split from two members to one member of the New Party. One's got a grudge, one's got no grudges, this one's a mess. In order that, respected citizens of Serbia, it is not enough to say – we will support this, we will vote for this, but here are all those who say we will support this, we will vote for this, let the efforts, as SNS MPs and coalition partners do, so that they remain to vote. It is not enough just to say, and then when the vote is more tempting to them are the gardens of Belgrade cafes and restaurants so they are more there than they are in the hall itself, but we will vote for this law and for objections to the Rules of Procedure and for everything else that is needed. I don't see any opposition here, Mr. Pavicevic, I don't see the opposition in this room because no opposition is ruled by a large part of Serbia called Vojvodina and it is ruled in a very bad, primitive, corrupt and criminal manner, as the Boyan Pajtic regime in Vojvodina does. One more thing, democracy is the diversity of opinion, the rule of law, and that anyone can think and think with his own head, and the SNS supports this government of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26447	Mr Pavicevic, I will give you the right to a replica, just to explain your question after you resented the possibility of a non-SNS MP, who is only elected to the SNS list, who has the right to plead before the minister explains his presentation, explained the law. He said in his speech that he would vote for this law, regardless, I already said that he was not a member of the SNS, you noted a member of the SNS. You must understand that you are not the same, you are not a member of the DS, and you are selected, but you are not from the DS, Mr Pavicic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Here writes SNS, and to me writes your PG. ) Because it belongs to the SNS parliamentary group, but it is clear, many times in parliament, he said that he is the president of the Peasant Party and that he is not a member of the SNS, Mr Pavicevic, as you are not a member of the DS, although sometimes we do not know. Here you are, Mr. Pavicevic, a two-minute replica of Mr. Babic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26448	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Babic has already resented me for how he thinks I'm lazy, Mr. Babic said I'm not industrious, which could mean that it's a picture of Mr. Babic and my actions in the National Assembly over the past year. Dear gentlemen, just to inform you, I am, by statistical indications, the most active MP in this National Assembly in the last year. I have addressed 603 times in this year, gentlemen, twice as many as Mr. Zoran Babic, who is the head of the parliamentary group of the largest political party here, submitted with Mr. Zivkovic the largest number of amendments, participated in the debates, and when I had no time I fought for that time. Is there anyone who can tell me that I haven't been a worthy MP in a year? I don't think there are any respected gentlemen. The second thing, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic and I will vote equally on these bill proposals. Mr. Zivkovic said about, I said about, and on this paper I see Mr. Becic, although you may not see, SNS v, SNS for and SNS without the mark for and against. I see it now three columns from SNS. The third thing, gentlemen, to me, is Secretary Vulin's approach to these remarks that I said earlier looked like the actions of a national MP from the SNS here, I must now say, which today specialises in books here, for example, Professor Marko Atlagic, and when we need to discuss academic honesty, a professor who dangers books doesn't vote to discuss academic honesty as the supreme principle of higher education, gentlemen. That's a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26449	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. As you know... (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Replica. ) Before you get the replica, as you know, not to mention the same story again, means that the document you point to is just a notification of the order of speakers, does not mean anything, no one says that they will vote, so Mr Pavicevic, it is just your ignorance, you still cannot get used to some rules and Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. (Marco Atlagic, from the place: I am looking for a word. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Atlagic? (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Replica. ) You have the right to a replica but after Mr Babic, who was first entitled to the replica because he was mentioned by his name and name. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26450	Quantity does not mean quality, 603 or 601 or no matter how many times it does not have to be the quality measure of what is proposed. A simple thing in nature that is rare, which is small, is also the most valuable. So, the argument of the previous speaker, in terms of quality, this way falls into the water. But if this quantity represents the quantity of production of white paper, because these white papers and white sheets are his favorites in political action and when he was in the context of a political party that is no longer in parliament, he advocated some white sheets in the LDP, and after he advocated some white sheets on some excuses. Here, he has now brought again the white sheets and into the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, proposing amendments that say -- deleted, deleted, but it is important that it stands in statistics. It's all just not something to be proud of. The Serbian Progressive Party in one, in three, in 33 columns is bigger, is better, stronger and by argument and by honesty and by diligence and by all those characteristics that characterize politics, than one small parliamentary party, such as the New Party will ever be. I wouldn't measure it, and I wouldn't fight it that way, and I mean, of course, politically and verbally, not physically...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26451	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26452	Everyone has the right to their own politics. We're running our own policy and it's full of support for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26453	Thank you. I understand it's not enough to talk, it's smart to talk. Therefore, the word has the People's MP Dr Marko Atlagic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26454	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, I am very glad that I was called by a respected doctor at the Faculty of Political Sciences. I would first instruct him to take the 1971 Serbian language Dictionary of Mother of Serbs, so look at what the word "docent" means. If I'd gone through my books, I did, days and nights. When it comes to honesty, I will not speak of myself, but I call upon the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia to enter the open parliament, to see how much I am present here, how much I have spoken and to ask my students at the university and professors if I have ever been late in my life to work, and I do not receive a salary in this assembly, unlike the gentleman who receives the salary and never voted for his amendments. If he comes next time and votes for his amendments, then I'll vote for that amendment. When it comes to honesty, let me quote the Dictionary of the Mother of Serbs, out of the nine books that I have here, which means congratulations – which is not defiled by anything impolite, is morally correct, honest, honest and moral. Dear citizens, how moral it is, judge you. And I'd be happy to see a respected doctor at least once in this assembly this afternoon. Open an open parliament, and see who did when he voted. So much for congratulation. Also, let me say, it is not moral to be in a party with the one that has raised from the Republika Srpska's budget to stimulate 563 thousand euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26455	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26456	Let me finish thinking... Only because he was calamating the vine on the grass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26457	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26458	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Vice-President Becic, the honored guests of the Ministry and the National Employment Service, the quantity does not mean quality. That's what the head of the parliamentary group who is the most numerous in our National Assembly said. Does this mean, gentlemen, that these 136, or 138 MPs who, in a quantitative sense, are here...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26459	Mr. Pavicevic, I will not allow you to insult the Members of the People like that. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Not an insult. ) Mr Pavicevic, do not insult the MPs in this way. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: What have I offended? I ask with respect that you address 249 MPs in this National Assembly. The fact that you have tried to insinuate now is wrong with the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Please allow me. I'll have to give you a warning, Mr. Pavicevic. Go ahead, go ahead, but be sure if you continue to be disdainful about the MPs, I'll give you a warning. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I have already received one warning. Well, you'll get another one, Mr. Pavicevic, only when you insult the National Assembly, this high house and the MPs. Go ahead, go ahead. If you think it's time to start over, it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26460	Ladies and gentlemen, I have never, in any word, offended or disdained a single MP or any guest in our National Assembly. This is just one sentence to Mr. Becic. The other thing is, I have been resented here, and Mr. Atlagic and Mr. Babic, again in a kind of negligence, in a qualitative sense, Mr. Becic. Well, gentlemen, Zoran Zivkovic and I have passed here a whole new law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements with capacities in the New Party, with the consultation of the profession in 200 members, on 81 pages, to replace what we have called here, Mr. Becic, a patch of the law, which is now one coin used for the adopted Law on Planning and Construction, which was adopted and changed after two weeks, Mr. Bečić. We even submitted one resolution that was very good to be adopted by Friday.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26461	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26462	Unfortunately, due to this kind of approach by the SNS MP, first of all, it will not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26463	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. This closes the circle of replicas and after that the word has a folk MP Gordana Komic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26464	Shame on you! Shame on you, to compare the MPs elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with your white papers, shame on you!
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26465	Please, Mr. Granny, no matter what...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26466	To compare the electoral will of Serbian citizens... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26467	Please, Mr. Pavicevic, let the speaker finish. You know the rules very well. Don't make me give you a warning. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pavicevic, I give you a warning. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Do you hear what he is saying? Mr. Pavicevic, I give you a second warning. I'm asking you to wait for the speaker to finish two minutes, so that you can address for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. You can't get up at the moment when you think something's hurt, you get up at the moment, you go into the speaker's word and you get into the President's word. Wait for the speaker to finish. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Remind Mr Babic. He said, "I was ashamed." ) Mr. Pavicevic, I warned Mr. Babic that no matter how you caused the replica, you should not use the words. Go ahead, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26468	Mr. Chairman, remind me, punish me, cast me out, do whatever you know, shoot me in front of the National Assembly, I will not let anyone insult any MP. I will not allow anyone to insult fellow Members and fellow MPs and other political groups and from the SNS. I won't allow it, although I know they're patient and patient, even though I know that in these almost seven years the existence of SNS has experienced all sorts of pressures, various blackmails. I won't allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26469	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26470	Please, take away the time my colleague Pavicevic, waving to the Rules of Procedure, did not allow me to speak. I will not allow the electoral will of Serbian citizens to be diminished. I will not allow it, and I will say - shame on anyone who treats the citizens of Serbia in this way. If the wing is a rag, an even bigger wing of their authority and their criminal regime is the patience for the citizens and the grasp for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26471	Before you speak, Mr. Pavicevic, you must understand once you come home today to take one more time to read the Rules of Procedure. When you feel that someone has broken the Rules of Procedure, you must patiently wait for the speaker to finish the presentation, that the chairman finishes the presentation, and then at that moment you get the word and report for the injury and explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and not when you think someone hurt the Rules of Procedure and you get up, at the same time you start talking without getting the word. Your colleague can tell you that. Please know that's why you got the warning. One warning is enough, not two I said. It is enough to understand that you are constantly violating the Rules of Procedure in this National Assembly. Thank you. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26472	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becicu, the Honorable Minister Vulin, the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry and the National Employment Service, you have violated the members of 107 and 109, Mr. Becic. You violated article 107 by not reacting in an appropriate manner to Mr Babic's speech, which he told me several times "the shame of you" and he told me "the shame of you" because in his speech, I referred to Mr Babic's sentence, which he said – the quantity is not a quality. Mr. Becic, you were wrong not to react. You can correct that mistake by warning here now to tell Mr. Babic. Then you violated Article 109. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which defines the expression of measures to the MPs of the National Assembly and by giving me two warnings absolutely unfounded here, Mr. Becic, since I have not offended anyone here in any word. In one part, I quoted Mr. Babic's sentence, so if something was offensive, then Mr. Babic deserves a warning, Mr. Becic, not me. I suggest you say here now that you were wrong when you told me one thing and another warning and that you were withdrawing, as a sign of recognition that you were wrong, Mr. Becic, both of the reminders you gave me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26473	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. In an explanation like this, I can only say. First, I was unable, as chairman of the National Assembly, to react, because at the moment I reacted, a sentence that was made rough for this high house, you interrupted me, because you got up, because you started to throw away and disabling me, as chairman, to react, and in the stenogram you'd have my sentence when I responded to that exposure. The second thing, since you don't know the Rules of Procedure, I will now read to you Article 109, where it is said - the reminder is given to a people's MP who speaks before he asks and gets the word, what you have done. That's one warning. Also, who, in addition to the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks, who interrupts the speaker in exposure or throws away what you have done, and therefore you have received a second warning. I'm withdrawing the second warning. I believe that both warnings should stand, because you did both, and you continued, when I tried to warn you to wait patiently for the speaker to finish the presentation, so the record says that I said one thing and another a reminder of your constant attempt to abuse the Rules of Procedure and to interfere with the presentation of the MP and simply disrespect Article 109. Therefore, unfortunately, Mr Pavicevic, there are two warnings that you have made and violated the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26474	I won't answer again, Mr. Chairman, on this unnecessarily unnecessarily slipping into a stream like this. Article 107 of the Rules of Procedure. Most of us in this room are parents, and those who don't want to be and feel that love. How many times have I told my children, when they do something that I don't like at that point, - shame on you and no one's kicked, no one's shriveled and nobody's said - that's bad. When a parent tells his child, and even worse, a colleague says – one cattle, I think it's bad, I think it's unacceptable. When those who are here in this room and you, Mr. Chairman, primarily, and thus all of us other MPs, in this way and all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, characterized and marked us with – the cattle one, are now hypersensive to shame and any. You're ashamed because you're MPs, because you're people, because you're colleagues, because you compared Serbian citizens to your white ballots, with your experiments. I will say it again, even if I am driven out of this room, never to enter again, because for me man is the greatest value, colleague, and every man in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26475	Mr Babić, I can only say what Mr Pavicevic will never understand, that it only takes a little tolerance, that he needs to read the Rules of Procedure, that he knows when and at what point he should report and when he can answer and when he can speak and, in this case, he has received a reminder from all the chairmans so far, that he is not only in the chairmanship, but that the problem in him is that he does not know at some point that he should and respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For the sake of opportunity, Mr Pavicevic, I will still stick to that one reminder and pull this other one out, just to show good faith that you must simply try to wait and respect your colleagues, wait for them to finish the presentation and only then speak, as my reaction was necessary, not to allow you to compare, in the way you wanted, all the other 249 MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26476	(The People's Parliament shows in sign language. ) With the hope that I have spoken well in sign language – the respect of ladies and gentlemen, and with the desire to say that it is good that the National Assembly during today's session is translated into sign language. With hope, too, that there will be MPs here who will also speak sign language and regret that during this session and during the debate of the Sign Language Act we have had so much unconscious discrimination, so much intolerance towards differences, including persons with disabilities or persons with disabilities in the development of hearing or speech apparatus. We had one MP who said, as a disqualification for another Messenger of the people, he is deaf and weak in hearing. We also had disqualifications based on age. Perhaps such laws, which should help people who are in different qualifications and deaf and deaf and deaf and deafer hearing, are more helpful to us who think that we lack nothing and hence my attempt to speak sign language to those who do not hear, and with the hope that this law will be without a few defects. The first drawback is that, regardless of the minister's explanation that there are three million euros from which local self-government and for all needs, the funded interpreters do not write anything in the law. The problem is, if everything needs to be paid, it's under the word "can" in the law, because if it can, it doesn't have to. That'll be a problem in six months when we see the law in application. We think it should be the subject of an amendment that the Committee can submit and that it knows exactly who will finance employment, interviews, education, anywhere? Who's going to finance the interpreters? Another problem is centralization and focus only on the alliance. There are a number of associations across Serbia's cities and municipalities, and it would be good if the law had a stronger role to play by the association, not only by the alliance. The way it's written, it can be decided by someone other than the alliance, and it doesn't have to. Thirdly, when the user interprets sign language under this law, he is in a position to say he wants to use it, he will not be able to choose who will be his interpreter. I think that should also be considered by the amendment committee to try to fix or accept similar amendments that exist in the law. For the second law that is under discussion, I will link it with a sentence that it is, quoting the minister who said these are laws without politics and without ideology. There are no more wrong sentences than on these two laws. Both laws are ideological, civilized. The law on compensation for the unemployed is ideological, but really ideological, and it would be good if it wasn't trying to make provisions that made it clear that we wouldn't pay compensation for the unemployed to mask anything else except that we wouldn't pay because we don't have money. This is seen in the argument of the minister who says – 11,500 people were, should be, could not be a year without a constant contribution, to be right about compensation again, and said – there was no abuse. Then why do we have such an argument? There is a lack of more detailed discussion and a lack of focus on who both law and law will apply, and hence my attempt... (The People's Parliament shows in sign language. )......................................................................................................... to speak to respected ladies and gentlemen who can't hear me understand. That's my address to you. We just need to talk to each other and turn our ears on if we think they're doing well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26477	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26478	Unfortunately, it was abuse. Should we wait for them to become masseous, should we wait for them to stop and be abused rather than become a model of behavior? Well, you don't have to. Of course, the abuse of severance is higher than the Law on Labour, otherwise, is foreseen by the 2009 Law, therefore, by the Law that was passed at the time of another congregational majority, the congregational majority that brought both this Rules of Procedure and many other things. So, when you got a lot more severance than is provided for by the Labour Act, wasn't it an abuse to make a short fictitious contract, which you very quickly break up, regardless, and it's very important, to do so by your own free will, so you're not fired, you're not a technological surplus, you're simply unilaterally breaking the labor contract and you do it after just a few days, so we didn't say these numbers from two to six days by accident. This occurs and in practice, it appears unfortunately quite often. The vast majority didn't try to do it, but I'm sorry, the vast majority of people aren't killers and never tried to kill anyone in their lives. So does that mean that it shouldn't be regulated by law? Should we wait for it to become masseous and then we can regulate? If there is one single case of abuse, one single possibility of abuse, we will stop it immediately. But we want to see that it doesn't become masseous and it doesn't become everyday behavior. Of course we'll do it that way. So nothing was denied to anyone. It's just impossible for someone to take something that doesn't belong to him. And it turned out in practice that there are those who do it. Nothing's been disabled for anyone. No right has been reduced by any single dinar. It was mentioned here that we provided new funds for the National Service. Only five times as much as last year. There, we've provided so little. And as for sign language law, you know how, I don't think you can say, a court interpreter for Russian or English you choose. You're getting a court interpreter. You're looking for, you're not looking for his colourful personality, you're looking for his expertise, you're looking for his knowledge. And what, then, would be applied to sign language interpreters and not to any other interpreters? And it's not about any centralised, the law provides for other associations. So, not just alliances. Other associations can work. And when it comes to funding, the Republic's funding, the local self-governments that are already doing it in 81 offices, so it's not like there's no practice and we're doing it anyway, and of course we're doing it, sorry, if you have an interpreter in primary school, so it's not going to be paid by this ministry and local self-government, it's going to be paid by education. Because it's part of the education system. Because it serves precisely for those purposes. We'll see, of course, in practice how it works, I'm always in the mood for dialogue and mood to adapt the law to life, not the life of the law, but these are indisputable arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26479	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Comic. On what grounds? (Gordana Comić, from town: Replica. It's a misunderstanding. Do you really think you have the right to a replica? (Gordana Comić, from the place: If I didn't think I wouldn't have answered.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26480	Thank you. No matter what the MPs say - you're wrong to think, it's a great boldness to say in this room that someone thinks something wrong, but there are brave people, a strange thing. The misunderstanding with the minister is that we can't both, Minister, you can't say - we have over 11,500 cases and we haven't had a case of abuse, but we also have abuse. You have to decide, because when you put such an argument before MPs, we listen carefully, and if you want to prevent abuses, it's never done by reducing rights. It's that simple. I have a full understanding of the policy that it says – we do not have the money to pay compensation for the unemployed. I totally understand. That's even legitimate. But don't even try to wrap it up in something else. I must express my disappointment that with such ease you compare court interpreters for English or any language and interpretations of sign language. This shows a worrying misunderstanding of the law you're defending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26481	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26482	I show so insensitive that in a year of my ministry, I have passed two laws that take care of people with disabilities that some of the former majority have not brought in in 12 years, but good. That's just fine. Other than that, it wouldn't be bad for you to talk to the representatives of the relevant disabled associations so they can tell you that they're co-operating with this ministry. How come no one thought to say, out of the budget funds, they provide at least one scholarship for talented children with disabilities? We shared 10 scholarships with the insurance companies of Serbia. It's not much, but it means to those kids. We'll keep doing that. So much for our insensitivity, but good. There's a lot of hard words to throw around here. Excuse me, when it comes to interpreters, it's an inclusion. They're part of everyday life, and I don't see how they separate it from other people. Otherwise, if some before me, before us and before this majority were sensitive to the interpreters, they'd be introduced into the Register of Interests, at least they'd recognize them if they existed. There is an interest in an interpreter of sign language, so we would predict how they are educated, how they learn. It never occurred to anyone to this law, but now these insensitive people are going to get a job and the way they become what they become, the way they're going to do their important and human work. As far as abuse is concerned, we've been very clear, I really don't understand what you don't understand. Was there an abuse? Yes, it is. That even one of them justifies this law, to prevent another, third or fifth from appearing. That there were more of them than I wanted? Yes, it is. Is it mass? No, otherwise there would be 11,000, but what do we have to do, wait for 11,000 to come? There is no argument but an empty argument – let's argue, let's argue. It's about money. Of course it's about money, but it's about the purpose of money. This money isn't meant for someone to get both severance and another 12 months to be on NSZ. It's not for that, and there was a legal void, a possibility of that happening. As before this Law was not, let's say, regulated, we've already had a little discussion about how the basis is determined, or how compensation is determined in case the employer didn't pay the contributions. It's a legal void, we filled it out. So we filled in this legal void and let's not add any other meaning to it than what it is, an increase in legal certainty. Every law serves to avoid breaking the law and every law serves to ensure a certain form of spending money if asked by budgetary law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26483	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26484	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just as my predecessor said, this law has been prepared for several years and we welcome its adoption. It is a matter that is otherwise very difficult to codify and similar laws have a relatively small number of countries, both in the environment and in the EU member states. The Democratic Party has strongly advocated that from the root, we have advocated that people with disabilities, pardons, are finally treated from the point of view of human rights and social inclusion. This bill certainly improves the human rights of hearing impaired persons and increases their opportunities for any kind of social inclusion. We always say when we support a law, when it is good and thorough, when it is well and thoroughly written. As my predecessor said, some things could be improved by amendments and the Committee itself, and that is something that, at the moment we are also calling on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also the Committee in charge of these issues, that if we can do something better about what Parliament has said, then we can all do it together to make this good thing even more advanced. However, we always say when something is not in the interest of Serbian citizens. For this reason, when the issue of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, we believe that the law has major shortcomings and major problems. The changes that this law, i.e. amending and supplementing this law, are here, they are primarily changes in cosmetic character and we do not think and we do not think that it is essential and that it will in any way reduce the number of unemployed in Serbia, but rather, we have an announcement by both the Resorial Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on several occasions that the number of unemployed will jump and be growing and higher in the next period. The proposer himself states that the amendments to the laws of this nature were not at all a public debate and that talks were held with interested persons, although it does not explain who those interested persons were. In this way, we have rudely disregarded the role of the state of Serbia as the Social Economic Council. The Social Economic Council is an institutional framework when it comes to bringing the interests of both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the employers and, of course, the workers, or unions, into line. This only speaks of the fact that the competent ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia do not understand and do not want genuine social dialogue, which further complicates this matter. They're inconclusive, too, because they're talking about why we need an emergency procedure in this case at all. The main reason is the expected number, an increased number of those who will be jobless in the coming period due to what is said to be the completion of the privatisation process. If robbery privatisations called everything that the government of Vojislav Kostunica privatized, just because the workers were out of work, and you're announcing the same thing here, then I'm not even sure what we can call a dictionary of this privatisation. Under the password we have here the collapse of the Social-Economic Council, and this opportunity to congratulate both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry, are champions in this case relating to the collapse of independent institutions in the Republic of Serbia. Every independent institution bothers this government, it bothers those who want to introduce in one magical way certain criteria that are exclusively in the interest of those who sit in chairs and who are in power. I think that in this way we cannot help those who, in the coming period, are going to lose their jobs in this reasoning, and I think that this will be a very big challenge for each of the next Governments of the Republic of Serbia, as well as how all those who, with the announced privatisation, are going to lose their jobs, if we know what economic or macro-economic indicators in Serbia are, if we know that 10 billion already are long, if we know how difficult and tiring those efforts that are trying to bring foreign investors or foreign investments, which, of course, are not already here for the fourth year. We talked about opening new jobs and we tried to introduce to the citizens that we are passing laws that will speed them up or make it easier for them to find their jobs. It will not come to this, there is nothing from the projects, those who are pre-convicted to fail, such as "Belgrade on Water". When they're members of this law, I don't think I'll have time to go from one to the next, I'll just tell you about a few members. In Article 1, under the password, savings shall be reduced from nine to seven to the number of members of the Management Board of the NSZ. In doing so, the government does not reduce what it proposes, but it reduces those proposed by the Social-Economic Council, and this is just about a mere revote in each of the next and the next cases. I think it's very bad that it's being used as an argument, so I'm finishing up, contributions to the PIO that have been increased, so now here we can talk about how much she possibly jumped...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26485	Time, Mr. Bozovic. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26486	I'm sorry, I have eight minutes, so another minute and eight seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26487	No, you have six minutes and 42 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26488	The last sentence, so from 12 to 14%, is increased. It's not an increase of 2%, and today the resolution minister was talking about it, it's a 16% increase, and it's something that certainly burdens all those who are employed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26489	I thank Mr. Bozovic. Before I give my word to Minister Vulina, I would just like to say one sentence, that I understand as the chairman and the zeal of the discussion and the inability for some MPs to at some point be able to see that at that moment they are violating the Rules of Procedure, but we as chairman must protect the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and of all the MPs, but again I am sorry that as chairman, I must say the measures of the notice that I may be able to maintain order at the session. Seeing that Mr. Pavicevic with his expression when he realized that he was wrong and leaving the session showed the mistake he made when he fell into the speaker's word, I withdraw the warnings I made. I ask the service to record it, because I believe that Mr Pavicevic will be keeping an eye on it in the next period and will wait for the speaker to finish to get the right to injure the Rules of Procedure or the right to reply. I thank you and apologize for this comment I had to make. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26490	I understand, politics is politics and no one is obliged to accept the arguments of the other side. That's the only reason I can explain that you don't understand what I'm saying – 2,062,856 names and last names. So I'm not talking about the amount of money that's bigger than 8%, I'm talking about 2,062,856 names and last names of people who pay contributions to the PIO fund, and they're getting paid out of their profits, and they're making money by going to work, and they have a job because someone's opened a job where they work. What's incomprehensible and what's so terrible about it? It's a simple fact, it's so. If you want me to talk to other numbers about increasing employment, then let me tell you -- you noticed that pensions are paid in the day and in time. The state of Serbia adds a certain amount of money each month so that the pension can be paid in the day and on time and in the right amount. The amount of money paid by the state of Serbia has been reduced by two billion dinars over the past three months, and pensions have been paid daily and on time. So more money went into the register, more insurance paid the money in the register, more people were employed. There's nothing more to explain than, of course, if we don't want to understand, and we'll always pretend that's not the case, because at this point, it doesn't suit us. Employment and unemployment insurance law is primarily a law on persons who are already out of work. It's not a law that regulates labour obligations, it's not a law that hires someone. Of course, there are measures and active employment policies and this law gives us a greater spectrum of precisely such measures to allow ourselves a greater space to train more people, to employ more people. This law deals with, among other things, but in the first place, it deals with the records of people, people who are on the National Employment Service records, so people who don't have a job, who are looking for a job. This is the law on them, and let's not explain to Serbia something that is not true. This is a law dealing with them. The biggest challenge for us as government is how to deal with the big challenges here, how to deal with hundreds of thousands of those who have lost their jobs, as a result of robbery privatisation. These 530 companies we're talking about are companies that have already been robbed once, who are in charge, who have no property, who have only debts and workers and have nothing else. These aren't companies from those golden times of robbery privatisation. These are the victims of robbery privatisation. These are companies that don't even know how they survived. They survived for political reasons, they were paid something to do as they knew and could, to buy another vote. These are companies where workers are owed millions, in which they are owed back earnings, in which they are owed to the state. These are companies that owe five billion euros. There's nothing to rob. Five billion euros in debt, so it's not worth nearly five billion dollars to take something away. But the economy that was privatized led to these 530 companies being robbed. That's how it used to be. That way, it won't work anymore. So, because of the citizens of Serbia, no right is denied and to be precise, when we talked about this abuse that it has and which we are going to stop in this way, it is not just the specificism of those who have now received severances. You also have people who lost their job with their guilt, so he made another ten days' contract, so he applied to the National Employment Service and got 12 months' pay back even though he doesn't have the right to do it. The 2009 law established a rule that you cannot come to the National Employment Service and receive compensation in so far as your guilt has broken your working relationship. So, not in 2015, 2009, the Law that passed by some other majority. The citizens of Serbia do not lose any rights. One hundred times I will repeat, because it is most important that people understand, do not lie to them or scare them, the one who has received more severance than the law guarantees him the Labour Act, cannot after that conclude a fictitious short working relationship and immediately come to the National Employment Service and once again receive 12 months of compensation. He can be hired tomorrow, he can work wherever he wants, no one slows down his right, if he has that possibility, 12 months later, if he's out of work, he can come to the National Employment Service, but he can't take his severance, make a fiction contract, and in ten days, here he is for another 12 months. It can't, but it never could, it's just, what can I tell you, people don't like to read the laws, they don't like to read what they brought themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26491	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. The word has a folk MP Gordana Topic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26492	In today's address, I will talk about a bill on the use of sign language. First, I would say something in general about the very sign language used in communication by deaf and deaf people. It is natural and free to say the native language of deaf and deaf people, a visual-manual type who is not an invention of a man, but is created in the deaf community, so that in the use itself we have differences of local character where different signs are used for some concepts, and this law itself will contribute to its standardisation. Sign language has no written form. It is made up of signs formed by the movement of hands and other parts of the body, including facial expression, body position and lip movements that convey a certain meaning. In sign language, dactylology is important, i.e. a manual alphabet that can be one-hand, double, or combined with us and letters are shown by different positions of one or both hands. What is in speaking language is intonation, voice intensity, etc., in sign language is expression of face and body. Unwittingly and ourselves very often use sign language by air conditioning the main – yes, no, by folding shoulders, which would mean – I don't know and sign language is not universal, which means that each country has its own sign language, so it exists as a sign language of national minorities. One of the disabilityes is considered deafness. The Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities will in some way only be supported in achieving the Constitution of guaranteed equality with the administrations and the needs of our citizens by the Law on the Use of Sign Language, which aims at full inclusion i.e. including deaf and deaf persons in social, economic, cultural, political and every other segment of life. This law gives rise to the right to use sign language before public authorities in the field of labour relations, education, education, information, telecommunications, as well as to obtain the status of sign language interpreters that are insufficient and for which there are real needs, if we know that in our country, by the records of associations and councils of deaf and deaf Serbia there are more than 20,000 deaf and another 30,000 deaf people who are precisely involved in everyday life of communication. Also, this law proposes measures to improve the use of sign language, as well as criminal provisions for breach of obligations and ban on the use of sign language. Recently speaking about the Law on Dog Guides, I have said and I now repeat that we all have the same needs, but how we will achieve their satisfaction depends on our psychophysical abilities, environments and conditions in which we live, and I sincerely hope that we will do our best to make sure that this law does not remain just a dead letter on paper, but we will be able to regulate with it that deaf and deaf persons communicate, that they are involved in all areas, that the envisaged measures for the development of sign language will get more translators and interpreters for sign language. As an educational worker, I would also refer to the inclusion of deaf children and children with hearing impaired in regular schooling, which is made possible by IOP, i.e. an individual educational plan which is fully adapted to the needs of children, which is another form of inclusion of persons with disabilities in regular life flows, and where particular attention should be taken to the needs of schools that have the need for IOP to train personal assistants who are in these cases very specific because they have to rule fully in sign language because it is known that deaf people are very difficult to understand abstract things and we know that so far, at least from the territory of the city from which I come, children with such problems educated in special schools in Belgrade and Zemun who are of the international type. Interpreters and sign - language translators by law cannot be members of a deaf and deaf society, and they are mostly from families where parents are mostly someone with hearing impairment or deafness. I had a chance to meet a man who, by chance, literally became an interpreter of sign language by playing the game of fate, Alexander Bachvanski. It's an extraordinary story I want to share with you. Before that, I would also like to say that in Pancheva since 1956 there has been an inter-municipal organisation of deaf and deaf, which is also one of the first in the territory of the former SFRY, which includes five municipalities: Kovin, Kovačica, Alibunar, Opovo and Panchevo, which in the meantime became a city, and within which three interpreters and one sign-language translator were engaged, numbering about three and a half thousand members, of whom about 100 were deaf and the others were deaf. One of these interpreters is Alexander, who came to this organization as the first soldier in civil service and spent nine months there. Then he first met sign language and in communication with deaf and deaf persons learned to use sign language, and after the military deadline, he volunteered in the organization. Based on his engagement, on the proposal of the Association in 2009, he was sent to pass an exam for the translator and then an interpreter organised by the ministry. As an engaged interpreter in this inter-municipal organisation, together with leadership, projects are written in a competition of local self-governments that have been declared the best in the field of social protection, which were related to training people to use sign language from public services, including health workers from the charter service, workers of mail, banks, pharmacies, National Employment Service, a service centre in the city administration, where five women and two interested educational workers are trained. It was precisely what the objective of this law was - the promotion of sign language, the awareness of the existence of deaf people and their inclusion in everyday life. This example of good practice could be applied in other municipalities and cities, and what one company has already done, so it has trained its business operators throughout Serbia to use sign language and enable people with deafness and deafness problems alone, without intermediaries, to obtain the necessary information. One of the projects of the Pančeva Intermunical Organisation was also in collaboration with the Technical School – Education of Deaf Persons for the use of new modern technological achievements, computers and the Internet, which proved to be an extenuating circumstance, both for communication and for monitoring of all events, especially when it comes to younger people. We have a current digitalisation of television programs, and we know that many famous domestic and popular movies of people with hearing impaired have not been watched, because they have not been translated into sign language, as well as many cultural contents that have been virtually inaccessible to them. Now digitisation will be made available, because the shows that are not broadcast live will be at the bottom of the screen with the title, which is another form of reduction in discrimination. I hope there will also be more and more simultaneous translations, just by getting the calling of official interpreters for sign language. I would warn the public that the number of deaf people is increasing, and those under the age of 35, which connects to the appearance of the Walkman and in a more recent time using headphones that are in fact a direct attack on the killing of the hearing nerve by sound, which should be specifically warned by the younger population. I would like to commend the work of services that helped deaf and deaf people before the official adoption of the Serbian sign language, which will be achieved by this law, as well as improving and improving the work of these services. At the very end of the presentation, I recommend that you type “the neighborhood of a deaf young man learned sign language, ” where the actual story was used to promote a deaf - minded car center, especially if you yourself have one in your environment. Let us learn how little effort and will we can make a person’s life more beautiful and let him know that we accept him just as he is. The SPS parliamentary group in Voting Day will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26493	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26494	Dear chairman, respected ministers and respected co-workers of the ministry, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have two draft laws in front of us. One law is brand new, it is reformal and represents a step forward in respect of human rights, and it is the Law on the Use of Sign Language. The second law that lies before us today and which we debate is the Proposal for a Law on both amendments and additions to the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, which applies only to the amendments and additions of 20 members. But these changes and additions also show some socio-economic responsibility of this government, as well as the competent ministry, in terms of rationalisation. That rationalization refers to board members, instead of nine, now we're going to have seven. Except in terms of rationalisation, it also refers to the fact that the Director of the National Employment Service is no longer a member of the Management Board, and we know that the Director of the National Employment Service is appointed by the Government. So, the government, or the competent ministry, had in mind this, so that all stories about the reduction of the number of members and the story that this choice of reduction of members of the board of directors by the opposition absolutely did not stand, or have no right to be founded in reality and are not, after all, in the interests of Serbian citizens. What I particularly want to praise in the adoption of amendments and additions to this law is that we have seen almost for the first time that the Government in one, or competent ministry, is in one responsible way considering the shortcomings and irregularities observed in the work since 2009 and trying to through these changes and irregularities that have occurred in practice to remove. And he's doing it successfully. What I particularly want to praise in this law is the obligations of the employment agency that our workers provide to work abroad, obligations in terms of providing timely information on what awaits them, in terms of full information on what they expect to do abroad, in terms of getting acquainted with the legislation of the country they are going to go to, and in the sense that in the case of unforeseen circumstances, and in the event that the worker is not without his own guilt, he will bear the costs. Now I'm going to move on to another law relating to the Sign Language Act. I must say that it is reformal, that it is fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in accordance with the respect for human rights of dignity, fully in line with the Strategy for the Development of the Promotion of Persons with Disabilities, fully in accordance with the approved United Nations conventions, and it is the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, above all with Article 9 of the aforementioned Convention. Also, what I must commend is that this law provides for a deaf child to have the right to learn and use sign language. This right cannot be denied either by parents or by guardians. This law has been passed in order to improve people with disabilities, particularly deaf and deaf. It means their full integration into society, and the Ministry of Labour, through the Department for the Promotion of the Positions of Persons with Disabilities, and so that it provides financial and other support to the associations that gather these persons, and these associations of deaf and deaf and deaf are certainly the place to gather deaf persons, is the place where they exchange experiences, is the place where these people are provided support and assistance. I would like to commend the Ministry that it has an open competition over the year and that it supports all those programmes relating to support for all activities and all plans relating to improving the position of persons with disabilities, in particular to improving the situation of deaf and deaf. Of course, all that and the laws are precise. I must stress that the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015 is in function 90, economic classification 481, in the division of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, the funds amounting to 325,722,000 dinars, which are currently related to the support and assistance of NGOs, or associations. The Serbian Progressive Party in voting day will support both draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26495	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours, if necessary, and because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Lybuška Lakatoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26496	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is one of the draft laws on the agenda today, the draft law on the use of sign language. This bill regulates the use of sign language, i.e. the right to learn sign language and the right to use sign language services, the way and use of interpreter services, the measures to improve sign language through information and education in sign language. This law provides for the Constitution-guaranteed principles relating to the enjoyment of human rights, and in particular the prohibition of discrimination against persons with disabilities. Sign language is a form of communication of hearing impaired persons, which has its linguistic properties, grammatical functions, phonology, morphology and syntax. We are all aware of the fact that hearing persons should be equal members of society and that they exercise their rights to the same extent as all other members of the community. The fact that hearing impaired persons have limited opportunities because of the difficult way of communication is misunderstood and therefore we need to remove these prejudices with certain measures. They need access to communication in the most appropriate and acceptable way, and sign language is a necessary form of communication for hearing impaired persons. The basis of this speech is the system of signs, each of which has its own meaning. Such a system of signs represents a natural way of communication, and along with sign language interpreters, communication is made possible not only by hearing impaired persons, but also by hearing people who are in communication with them. The main objective of this law is to improve the position of deaf persons, remove barriers to communication and introduce sign language into all life spheres, with the aim of empowering people with hearing impairment and to engage in social activities. For these reasons, I call on all my colleagues to support this law in the voting day, because this will enable a person with disabilities, i.e. to persons with hearing impairment to be equal, to be able to express their ideas, thoughts and feelings using a language that best meets their communication needs and we will not deny them their inalienable human rights, which is the right to communicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26497	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Peranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26498	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, we have two draft laws in front of us today. I will talk about the first proposed legislative solution, which is the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. With this proposed legislative solution, we have the need to reorganise the National Employment Service by introducing new measures to create new measures and employment programmes and to regulate other issues related to the implementation of an active employment policy. Indeed, at the very beginning, I would like to say that this is one flexible approach to employment measures. In the previous period, as the minister himself said, we had cases, i.e. situations of frequent abuse of fictitious reporting in a working relationship. As you said, he lasted no longer than six days. If we want to edit this country and create a modern, efficient, legal state, all services in its system must actively participate in it, and citizens themselves must help. I truly believe that this government, headed by Prime Minister Vukic, has clear intentions. Therefore, a proposal like this comes to the effect that after 12 months, or 12 months ago, it means continuous work, or 18 months with some breaks. What this legal proposal also regulates is efficiency in the service itself. So the officers will be in the service of our citizens. The reduction of members of the Supervisory Board is something we did in the previous period. This is how we bring about a series of savings, because if we inherited a country that was in debt, we really need to reorganize and revitalize it. On the other hand, an unnecessary outflow of money will be put on the path, and in such a way we will be able to solve at least some problems. The second law is sign language, something that is truly humane and we must enter into the system and order of modern states. The adoption of the Sign Language Act balances opportunities, accessibility and the exercise of different rights in accordance with the needs of a person with a hearing sense, and in terms of the inclusion of persons with disabilities. I really think education must be introduced in this way. As you said, it would be an honor for everyone to sit here one such MP in every other sector. I believe that people with disabilities must have an equal standing and must not feel their own lack. I think these people have to make an equal contribution to the arrangement of the system and that their active work is seen at every step, I said, from education to any other function. Since we've heard a lot of discussions on this subject today, I don't want to be too long. I'll just say that if there's an 81 local self-government system like this, there's no reason for this law not to be passed with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26499	Thank you. The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26500	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers Vulin and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in fact in a united debate on two draft laws, the Law on the Use of Sign Language and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment. At the end of this debate as a member of the Bosniak People's Party and a member of the SNS Parliament's Club, I will say something about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Act, since I come from a region where the unemployment rate is far above the state level average, and for this they are guilty, I would say, more or less of the previous governments, although today in the performances of the opposition we have not heard a single shred of self-critics about such a situation. When these amendments and additions to the Employment and Insurance Act are at stake, I would say that we had our last changes in 2010, and given that the reduction of unemployment is one of the priorities of this government, these changes and additions were really necessary. The decision of this law will have a positive impact on unemployed persons who are involved in certain measures of active employment policy, and the expected effect is that more people are caught up with different measures of active employment policy that are better adapted to the needs of the local labour market. First of all, this also refers to the reorganisation of the National Employment Service, even better creating active employment measures depending on the need for the labour market, more detailed regulation of the conditions for the achievement of the right to compensation for unemployment, as well as the regulation of the responsibilities of employment agencies that intervening in the employment of our citizens abroad. I would especially like to commend the reduction in the number of members of the Management Board to seven, thus reducing the same number to two other mandatory social security organisations to the Republic Fund PIO and the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund, thereby bringing these huge boards which have brought the relic of some earlier times into one decent state, in a state that they can perform their function for which they exist. The changes and additions on the agenda will allow for the flexible creation of active employment policy measures, which means that, on the basis of the results of analyses and effects of active employment measures implemented, they will be regularly changed, improved and, where appropriate, introduced new and more effectively and more effective use of the limited funds that are allocated to them. Public works programmes, i.e. improving the coverage of persons to be included in these programmes, are also more specifically arranged. Also in practice, we also have employers who are late for payment of contributions or late for payment, so the situation has maintained the right to remain unemployed for those who stop working. However, by detailing what is considered a basis for determining the amount of the unemployment fee, those insurance companies that have not been paid and have not been accounted for and reported contribution to unemployment insurance will be protected, as their cash compensation will be set at a minimum amount of the prescribed law. It often happens that the data entered into the employer's workbook are not in agreement with the data contained in the birth records of the Republic PIO Fund, so it is now more precisely regulated. Amendments and additions to the Employment and Insurance Act for unemployment shall be made to the obligation of the Republic of PIO Fund to issue an individual act in the form of a certificate or assurance for those persons who remain less than 24 months until the first conditions for the exercise of pension rights are met. Retirement for pension rights. The conditions for making the first cash compensation for those persons would be determined on the basis of an appropriate individual act of the Republic of PIO Fund. At the very end, when it comes to the employment of our citizens abroad, the proposed amendments and additions of laws introduce greater responsibility and obligations for agencies that intervene in the process, all in order to protect people employed abroad. To bring an end, in the voting day, I will support both these draft laws as a member of the Bosniak People's Party and a member of the SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26501	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, today we are discussing two draft laws, one of which is a draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment. The main objective of this proposal for a law is to make certain questions to the depths of the office, to specify what is even more important to apply effectively in practice. It was really necessary to do so since a number of problems have occurred so far in practice, there have been numerous abuses, and it is also not a rare occurrence of court proceedings, and all of which, of course, has a very negative impact on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which we simply cannot and cannot allow ourselves. This bill changes this, it is specified, among other things, what exactly is considered to be the basis for determining the amount of cash compensation in the event of unemployment, and also for the way in which money is charged in the event of unemployment. It is also precisely defined those provisions that concern the protection of our citizens who are working abroad, which, as far as we consider all the problems our citizens are facing so far when going abroad, were, of course, more than desirable, so that is something that I would particularly commend. It is also proposed to reduce the number of the National Employment Service Management Board from nine to seven, all in order to maintain austerity measures and to rationalise which is also very good. However, what attracted me particularly to attention and what I think is particularly good is a member of the 5th draft law where the National Employment Service, apart from textbooks and other than transport, also offers monetary assistance to those who are unemployed, who are currently in the process of training or training. I think it's really in the end line humanely very well because it further disrupts those faces during that one time period. In this period of time, they also need additional motivation in order not to give up that journey, or to continue to play an active role in stopping being unemployed. Since enough is said about this law, I would move to another law, a bill on the use of sign language. If we take into account that another law has been passed in this home relatively recently, which is a bill on movement with the help of a guide dog, I think it speaks in itself enough about the work of the competent ministry. I think he's talking about how well this ministry is doing its job and how hard he's making efforts to really make the position of a person with disabilities improve, to keep working on it and to make people with disabilities, that is, their life gets better and better. What drew my attention to this bill is Article 17 concerning the presence of sign language in electronic media. I think it's crucial, that it's essential for the simple reason that 21st century, century of information and where information means power. Just disable some information, disable someone from being informed, and that's the basic human right to be informed means really disabling them in the right sense of that word. I think it's really inadmissible and I'm very glad this law regulates the issue. The matter that has been made particularly interesting to me and I would like to look back on is the one that was processed in Article 8 of this proposal of the law, which clearly states that people who are deaf or in any way involved in political life during the duration of meetings have the right to use sign language interpreter services, which I think may be one of the best new ones this law offers for one simple and simple reason because it is precisely this way that allows people with disabilities to fight directly for their rights. None of them know better than themselves what their problems are, what their needs are, and in the end no one will fight for their rights better than themselves. So I think this may be one of the best decisions, that this is the right decision, in the extreme sense of the word, that this is one human decision. This is where I would refer to the words of our minister, and I would really like it to be in the future, and in the near future in this lofty home, we see as many persons with disabilities fighting for their rights as possible. So, who are actively involved in politics, which I think is the ultimate goal, and then I'm sure they'll use this bill themselves. Also, criminal provisions are provided for unless certain provisions of this law are respected, supervision of the enforcement of this law, which will be carried out by the ministry. However, what I would particularly point out is that the adoption of this bill does not end everything. On the contrary, a number of stands will be held at the time, which I think is the best of all, where people with disabilities, but not only her, but also the general public, as well as those who are employed in public services, will be informed, that they will be explained what rights they are and with all these rights we should all be familiar with. I think it's particularly commendable that the Ministry is making one effort, one effort, that this otherwise very high-quality law, not only remains a dead letter on paper, but that it really lives in the right sense of that word in practice, which I think is very good, and that is the ultimate goal of every law. These are all reasons why I think both bill proposals are very good, and they're definitely going to get SNS support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26502	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26503	I'm thanking you. You mentioned, that's important, we need to distract the public from knowing and that's one of the reasons why we're passing this law, when I say this, I mean the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment, are because of two members, members 8 and Article 9, because they're inaccurately written. So because someone didn't think, someone didn't look, and after that, no one was paying attention to what was adopted and what was once written. We are only in 2013 and 2014, in the relevant courts, therefore, only because of the inaccuracy, no evil intention, no one has denied anyone the right, because of the inaccuracies in interpreting the basis, which we are now correcting by this bill. We lost as a state. The National Employment Service paid 101,878,564 dinars, which are remunerations to the persons and also to 173,432,080 on behalf of the compensation for the costs of the court proceedings. So far over 200 million dinars for inaccuracies that are not corrected. We're correcting it now. So what you did today, and what you're going to do in voting day, will save the state, if nothing else, some future 200 million dinars. But for these 200, or how much money it is, it's too late. We're too late. We should've done it before. But it's better now that we've done it than wait any longer. Here it is proposed to go to a public debate, so one three months, if possible, so that another 200 million be charged. These are the reasons, this is very important. We must in every law, not only in this, where I call and the MPs, warn your country, warn if you see in this forest, in this sea of law, that there is something, some illogicalness, that there is something that needs to be changed urgently and quickly, because we are losing money. This money, just so you know, we didn't get any users with it, as you can see, it went to various lawyers. We've had cases that people don't know they've sued the National Compensation Service. They don't know. But some unconscious lawyers got their hands on the list of courts. The courts accepted. We conducted proper criminal charges, so you don't doubt, and one day it will be investigated and found out who did what. So, it's not this, even if you want to be unknowing how human you are, it's not that you're now denying someone the right to earn in some way. No, I don't. For legal expenses only, 1.173,432,000 plus this 101 million we talked about. Therefore, only because of the inaccuracies in Articles 8 and 9. Now we're making it right. That's not gonna happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26504	The word has the People's MP Velinka Tosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26505	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is measured by the degree of understanding of the needs of different social groups and the equal opportunity of all to fully engage in modern social flows. Obsolete notions of the limited possibilities of deaf persons should be overcome and such a legal basis should be provided for a deaf person to be understood as an equal, useful and productive member of society. I must stress that such a setting brings improvement, not only to deaf people, but to society and the state, which is the basic objective of this law. So I'm going to change the perspective and talk, not only about what people with disabilities get by adopting this law, but also what the state of Serbia gets by including them in all social activities. The difficult way of communication must not limit the possibilities of deaf people and therefore have different measures to ensure their human rights, but also extend the opportunities to reach information, develop and cultivate certain interests. Without encouraging sign language in electronic media and media in general, the development of the interest of deaf persons has been disabled, and thus their education, their expansion of knowledge and work competences has been disabled. So if the deaf person does not get the necessary knowledge, does not expand working opportunities, it is not only discriminated against, but also reduced its working skills. On the other hand, if we can ensure that information is available in sign language, interpretations for sign language, we will give deaf persons the opportunity to acquire knowledge, engage in jobs, become productive. Thus, we are going two steps forward, because an informed and productive person will be accepted as equal and in this way, deaf persons will be more present and active in society and in the management and decision-making processes. Available information in electronic media and all that will be provided by hiring sign language interpreters will allow for a greater number of prominent deaf persons, a greater number of deaf people in politics. I will give a simple example, in order to discuss a bill, we must be familiar with the basic information about it, exchange views with fellow Members. But how will the deaf person get involved in the debate? On the other hand, if the information is available and provided a sign language interpreter, the deaf person is able to express his opinion, contribute to the proposal or challenge the criticism, which is certainly full productivity. So I ask all my colleagues to support this law in the voting day, and I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26506	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26507	In general, when we talk about the situation of people with disabilities, and now it's essentially on the agenda of people who are deaf or deaf, let's say one little thing that changes life and we've been waiting for, for my incomprehensible reasons, for decades. Public service RTS, if you are informed about it, or if you have noticed, for the first time, one home series of Lipa Street is titled, so that deaf and deaf people can watch their home series for the first time. There's one simple thing, and how important it really is and how much it changes life. All these years, it just wasn't, didn't worry about it. We're talking intensively to RTS, and otherwise, this law provides that all emitters, we can't make them do it, but we're looking for an opportunity to behave this way. In particular, with RTS, we finance this project as the Ministry, and we're going to try to make the information program fully done, so to speak, translated for deaf and deaf people, that they can follow the live program. Besides, I'm sorry, it's also the people who pay the tax, the subscription and have the right to every service that you or I use and we are obliged to make it possible and adapt to them. It is so far a modest shift of "The Street of Lipa" has been titled. I'm kidding with RTS, and when we talked about it, I say, are you aware that one day we're going to have an entire RTS archive, that you're going to have people watching "Better Life" for the first time, after 100 of your reruns, at least we're going to do something.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26508	The word is by MP Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26509	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, today we are talking about a very important amendment to the law governing the issue of employment and unemployment insurance. As you ministers said at the beginning of this year, this year 2015 can freely be put to rest as a year of fighting for the employment of particularly young people, and it is clear that the effects and measures to be taken will be visible at the end of 2015, as 708m euros have been allocated to enterprises in restructuring each year, and now this will not be the case and it is important that workers will not be on the street. None of the people who become excess in terms of employment will go to the street without severance and an appropriate social package. It is also important for our country to see which of these companies will be able to find, therefore, a strategic partner or to be successfully privatised. The government's annual employment plan brings new measures and programmes in line with the needs of the local labour market and based on an analysis of the effects of the measures previously implemented. It is precisely these proposed measures that improve the process of creating measures and programmes for active employment policy, better analysis and use of existing data, which are all activities carried out with the support of the World Bank. The bill reduces the number of members of the Management Board of the National Employment Service from nine to seven, all in order to streamline and achieve savings. What especially characterizes the National Service is the permanent training of employees through various trainings, trainings and seminars, where the level of competence of employees is raised so that they can endure the process of reorganisation and improve the impact of their employees. It is very important to understand how to control certain costs necessary to place certain measures. I'll give you an example. If, for example, we have a situation where we do not have, in a local environment, employers' interest in training for a well-known employer, so we certainly will not use that measure, and for example, we have the need for professional practice shown, and we will then resort to that measure. So, people who have finished colleges, and it is particularly necessary that they get the necessary knowledge in a particular area through this measure of professional practice. As in any business, such measures are needed to realise, so financial resources. The cost level is conditioned by the available funding in the National Service financial plan for each calendar year as well as the planned coverage of the unemployed of individual types of active employment policy measures. Article 7 of this Bill deals with preventing abuse of the right to cash compensation, and you have just explained it perfectly, so it is clear that all possible abuses are being prevented, and you have set exactly the right example, that the unemployed should not be taught how to sue their country, but should find a job and allow them to be employed, which means that only respect for Article 66 of the Law, that they once again, means that they should benefit from this right at least in an uninterrupted period of 12 months, or with interruptions in the last 18 months. Article 90 clearly provides that this cash compensation cannot be higher than 160 or below 80 % of the minimum earnings established in accordance with the labour rules for the month in which the payment of the cash compensation is made. This means that these abuses are prevented, because in practice it happens to write one thing in the workbook, and that's quite different when you go and get an unemployed person's list. You know, I have to say that my practice has shown that I am a worker of the National Employment Service, that you have a situation that many employers place stamps irresponsiblely in the workbook, and you, when you take their listing, see that there are no contributions and you're in trouble. Article 16, the obligations and responsibilities of the holder of employment in the process of intervention for employment abroad are more detailed. In practice, the ocular irregularities in the work of the Employment Agency are in the process of intermediation which are being examined insufficiently in the information on the possibilities and conditions of employment, form and manner of protection in accordance with the Labour Treaty as well as the right to return from work abroad. I look forward to the fact that the 2015 financial plan with clear projections for 2016 and 2017 for the financing of the programme of active employment policy measures has defined 2.8 billion dinars and 500 million for people with disabilities. It is important to understand that this law prevents the adverse consequences of the work of the authorities and organisations in relation to the achievement of the right to cash compensation by more than 1,000 users and better protection of citizens of the Republic of Serbia when they go abroad. In Serbia, the number of unemployed is 3% lower than the same period last year. In Serbia, we now have 766, 500 thousand unemployed. Priority is young to 30 years of age and a person over 50 years of age. I would not want the population of people who belong to 30 to 50 years of life to think that they have been neglected by the National Service, on the contrary, these are people who make the most of their work and are very educated for the work they do and are very easily transformed when it comes to changing employment. As for my local self-government, in the economy of the city of Cačka, 13,470 workers are now employed, which you will agree to three times less than two decades ago. Twenty-three years ago, 44,575 workers were employed in Cačka, and today there are about 25,000. In the economy, it worked 34,500, three times less today. It is clear that the reason for this sunflower lies in the sanctions that have hit our country in the 1990s and certainly the catastrophic effects of privatisation. Cachanical companies where ownership structure was changed were employed by more than 12,000 workers before getting new owners, and now there are slightly more than 2,500 in employment relations. In order to make certain efforts to tackle such a situation, the National Service had heard, and in 2006 it initiated the establishment of local employment councils and Cačak was definitely able to understand the problem and was one of the first local self-government to form a local employment council from 2006 to the day of today, absolutely detached from the local budget for the employment of its fellow citizens. This year, on February 12th, the city's bigger town of Cačka adopted an action plan for the city for 2015. A total of 30 million dinars have been allocated for the implementation of the active employment policy measures in the city budget, and the state is expected to participate with seven million and for public works, the state will allocate four million dinars. There are clearly three measures that the town of Cačak will finance, first subsidies to employers for employment in new jobs, then self-employment subsidies and public works in the territory of the city. The first measure predicts that precisely that employer who employs over five people on the record, and the prerequisite is that they be three months before they go to that extent, to be on employee records, and for this measure 17 million dinars are foreseen. The self-employment subsidy is now on the face of 160,000 dinars. All these years ago, we've singled out 200 grand each, but we wanted to balance the story with the Republic and not make a difference to make it easier for people who follow all these contractual obligations. For the third measure, public works, five million dinars are allocated, and the maximum length of public work is six months. I am taking this opportunity to tell the citizens of Serbia that my colleagues from the National Service are absolutely free of charge, that is, within their regular work activities as employees, on the basis of a contract signed by the Director of the National Service with local self-governments, they are doing this very job of contracting, monitoring contractual obligations in a safe and responsible manner for our citizens. At the end of my presentation today, I am free to say that almost no ministry, nor the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy can only cope with such a very large unemployment problem because we are aware of how complex a problem that is present with us and we will only achieve the joint activities of the state and society as a whole. I would like to commend our minister who is here with us for having managed to introduce a single integration of financial welfare users. It never went hand in hand to anyone before you because we couldn't reach a deal at the bar with the people at the Social Work Centre. We had two-footers of people coming to us fully working and asking for a copy of the records that they were at our place. We say: Can't you engage in some public work to do something useful? It wasn't taken well-intentioned, I even know when you did, when you suggested it applied, it didn't come across very well. However, anyone who is workable needs to earn money and does not need to depend on social assistance. So much for me and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26510	I thank Mrs. Djokovic. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26511	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow ministers, dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia who are watching today's work, I will repeat, today are really two important draft laws on the agenda. First of all, I will consider amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. This law encourages, above all, measures to reorganise the National Employment Service, but also to increase the capacity of the National Employment Service. I won't make arguments, we've heard them very precisely and sufficiently this time. What is particularly important to me is the measures of active employment policy. The action plan that the government adopts every year for a year, this law stipulates that these measures can also be improved. What is highlighted and very important is in line with local markets and needs. And what is more important to me, perhaps more importantly, and so far has not been a practice when active employment policies are implemented, what was missing are impact analyses, what was done, simply, the public work is done, the professional practice, everyone goes where, where, what was, did someone get a job, if someone has gained some new experience and knowledge, of that nothing. This law makes it clear, and that's good. I will refer briefly to the municipality of Ivanica, which has been implementing measures of active employment policy for several years and I support these employment measures. We all know that the priority in Serbia is employment. In 2013, my municipality implemented active employment policies in three segments. These are self-employment, professional practice and public works. In 2014, we defined ourselves only for public works, and we did not get funding from the Republic, but from the municipal budget, 22 million were allocated to the local budget, so 60 people are still in the public works process. There are over 5,000 unemployed in my municipality. This has also been contributed by the company involved in restructuring. It is, I hope, well known to all, because it is a brand, a combination of Javor, where women are mostly women, because women's labours have defined it as a financial aid, a social programme. Some of them have found new employment in local businesses, tailors, but some have remained unemployed for the time being. What we all know is that the Privatisation Act has been regulated to complete the privatisation process by 31 December of this year. I hope that this combination of Javor will also be successfully privatized, given that it has worked successfully for decades, that it is a brand, that it has the quality of the product, that it simply has good and equipment, there are also halls and hope that there will still be employment, we believe and hope that the result will come. This year, from the republican budget, as you have already said, 16 billion have been allocated to a new surplus of unemployed. I'm going to move on to another law that, as you said, is an innovative law. It's the law on the use of sign language. Recently here in the Assembly we had and adopted the Law on Movement with the help of a guide dog and then we announced this law and these two laws or other measures are just proof of the affirmative relationship of this society, this ministry, and also of the Government towards persons with disabilities. With this law, which primarily applies to deaf and deaf, we have heard and how many in Serbia, they will only get this because we will have a final profession of interpreters, interpreters who cannot literally translate the speech language, but, of course, with interpretations and gestures and everything else can be contributed much. The goal is to ease discrimination as much as possible. The goal is to integrate these people, to engage, and that's the popular word of inclusion, to engage in all spheres of social life. But in the end, I'm just going to leave three of my thoughts, maybe suggestions, recommendations, or whatever we call it. First of all, I think it's necessary for sign language to be an object in schools that attend deaf and deaf. I know we're only going to have a sublegal act, and we're going to regulate a lot of things for them. It may be unrealistic at this point, but at least let's get to it, because I think deaf and deaf people have to do it in a good and systematic way to adopt their own language, and not as is the case now, it's mostly sort of spontaneous. The other thing I'd look back on, and I think it's going to be regulated by this law, it's a standardized sign language. I especially stress this, because there were examples, even where I was present, at some important conferences, where people with disabilities are present, to simply be an interpreter, but not to understand, because they used unstandardized language. Third, I will refer to the importance of the Interresor Commission, which assesses the need for sign language in the education system, but not only for sign language, but also for all other needs of people with disabilities to get involved in regular education. Now the permanent composition of the interresor commission does not involve a defecologist. My opinion is that a defector as a person who best knows the population of disabled persons should certainly be a permanent member of this inter-resor commission, so I suggest, if possible in some period, that the Additional Support Regulation be amended. In the end, what to say is that, together with the SNS MPs in the voting day, of course, I will support both good bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26512	Thank you. The word has a Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26513	As the MP certainly knows, the inter-resor committees are solely in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education, but I fully agree with you that we should discuss them. There are also various objections to their functioning and that they need to be refreshed a little bit differently, so count on me to pass on the minister, so why not talk about it. You are from Ivanjica and “Javor” is a very good example. If I'm not mistaken, 512 workers took the social programme in Javor, which is all, almost everyone took the social programme. Now, imagine that 512 of them agree with the neighbor, on six days end the working relationship and all 512 at the National Employment Service and says – e, for the next 12 months we have provided another salary. But on the other hand, there really is a real hope that there will be a recovery of production in “Javor” and that all 512, and who else, will continue to work. There, that's the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26514	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Violet Lutovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26515	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, I would say that the proposal for a law on the application of sign language is also an important law for people with disabilities. I would certainly link it to the previously passed Law on the movement of impaired and blind persons with the help of the guide dog, and I would clearly say that the intention of the legislator of such laws is clear, and this is the equalisation of persons with the disability of any kind and their absolute inclusion in all social flows and equalization with all members of society. Such a bill actually enables the right to use sign language, which will enable deaf people to participate actively in making important decisions, as well as in participation in all social spheres of life. The sign language actually represents one natural and, I would say, the only form of communication of deaf people. This sign language is also referred to as the gesture language or language of body language, the movement of the hands, where the meaning of certain words is conveyed. The right to use sign language actually implies the right of deaf persons to learn sign language, above all, so that it can be used, on the one hand, and also implies the right to use sign language services, because the deaf person who uses sign language and is unable to show and exercise the right to understand in any other way is certainly entitled to use, i.e. the right to use an interpreter service. By passing such a law, we will allow deaf people to become equal, to participate in political life, in educated life, in health care and in all other areas that society and the needs of society require. The law, on the other hand, obliges both the public services and the ministry and the competent authorities, which are concerned with the protection of persons with disabilities themselves, to take appropriate measures. To take measures and listen to the needs of persons with disabilities themselves, in this case deaf persons on one side, and also to take measures to, above all, promote such sign language and also use sign language. I would say that by adopting the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, we have actually made a great step towards adopting such a bill, and for using sign language and I would point out that in many countries, such as the United States, Switzerland, and many other countries, deaf persons have the service of interpreters in the judiciary, in health care, in education, anywhere, so that we should not allow 30,000 people, who need to use sign language, to feel like foreigners in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26516	The word has a national emissary of Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26517	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to take part in today's debate on the draft law on the use of sign language. With great pleasure, because I believe that this law will eradicate discrimination on persons with hearing impairment, will lead to full equality and equal opportunities for their citizens. I'm saying this because my father is a hearing-damaged person, because unfortunately I've attended countless times the unpleasant situations in the post office, in the store, in the street and statistics, it shows that people with hearing, deaf persons, are in front of discrimination in many aspects of human communication, especially in administrative affairs, in counters, in banks and in post office. What we need is to reach a level of consciousness, because it's the only way to achieve all human rights. We must accept people with disabilities, we must accept that they are useful, equal and productive members of our society. My father is a damaged dry person, but he's also a graduate engineer of engineering. A person esteemed in his profession, rewarded in a competition for best technological innovation. And people like that are all around us. What's the problem is that there is a barrier to communication with these people, and we need to work on overcoming that barrier, to involve these people in all aspects of our society, to strengthen them, motivate them and encourage them to take the initiative and responsibility. The barrier in communication is very easy to overcome only if we show a little goodwill, if we show that we have patience and take a small step. I've heard many times, as an excuse for a misunderstanding in communication, so he doesn't understand me. However, when it comes to a person who is able to read lips, we should only talk a little slower or a little more eloquent and we will overcome this barrier. Yet these are the institutions that should be at our service, which these services and charge, and for those with hearing and deaf persons it is painful for them to enter these institutions. Of course, I don't want to generalize, but there are some bright examples. Today is not the only topic of adopting this law on the use of sign language. It is neither the objective nor the simple use of all those documents that have been internationally accepted, the implementation of all those laws that Serbia has committed itself to, but the goal is to raise our awareness and to be aware that we need to work on ourselves. It is necessary to break the prejudices of people with disabilities, to accept their existence and needs. What the law will bring, and this is also in the light of this law, is an impact on the way in which public services and employers perform jobs and here I mean health care services, judicial, educational institutions, because this is how we will ensure the equal position of persons with hearing impairment in front of these institutions. What I would point out in the law is this availability of sign language interpreter services and the best testimony of the user's comments, because they say they feel much more independent, that all information is available to them, that they are informed and that they have to rely to a much smaller extent on the help of family and friends. Also, the possibility of forming a college center, which is in this law, is very important and this is not a newspaper in the world. In France, there is a number that deaf people can turn in emergency situations where a video company opens up and makes contact with a sign language interpreter. Also, another thing that is very important is, when it comes to the media, that obligation of the media service provider, in line with its financial and technical capabilities, to provide media service users with content that suits them and in the way that suits them, so that I would especially praise the titled emissions on our programmes. In the end, I really believe that this law will recognise discrimination against hearing persons to the least possible extent possible, that we will prevent marginalisation and social exclusion of persons with disabilities and that we will make all information available and allow them to stand alone. In voting day, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26518	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26519	People with disabilities are part of our society, and we owe them no more trouble than nature has already done. One of the major problems facing people with disabilities, in addition to the lack of understanding of the environment, is the lack of adequate availability of education. That's why I was particularly pleased that you said your father was a machine engineer. It's rare, especially deaf and deaf. They have no other problem, except for access to education to get the right knowledge. Deafness is not an obstacle to gaining any degree of knowledge and any skills, but without interpreters, without being properly involved in the educational process, people will not get the knowledge they need to live normally and live better. Otherwise, it's no prejudice whatsoever, but deaf and deaf people are known as extremely hardworking workers. I was recently in a company that employs people with disabilities in Novi Sad. They hire a large number of exactly deaf and deaf. They are extremely pleased with their workload. It's no prejudice whatsoever. That's a fact. It's just like that. This law improves the possibility of deaf and deaf people being educated and to reach any degree of academic knowledge. It is something that we will regulate in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and in accordance with the Law on Education, etc. These are all things that the whole society needs to do, as you've noticed. Yeah, we'll make sure of it. First in Belgrade. I hope it applies then to the other big cities in this country. That's an extremely good way. Especially a good example of mail, banks. You and the tablet establish a video link and hand over to a clerk who can't say he doesn't understand you. He understands this, and he'll be able to function perfectly normally. We'll start with Belgrade and I'm sure we'll expand. Not only for deaf and deaf, we have to take care of all people with disabilities. One of the projects that the ministry has launched together with the "Parking Service" in Belgrade, and we will spread it to everyone else, is a very simple app not to the phone that will show people with disabilities, no matter where it comes from, just to play a part, to show where the free parking space is intended for people with disabilities. If someone parks in that parking space, they will be able to send a text message to an appropriate number, which will call a spider and remove the unconscious neighbor who was there. Simply, life consists of a million small details, and it is up to us to cover each of these details and make life easier and more normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26520	The word has been given to the People's Messenger of the Jellysavet of the Colors.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26521	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, are presently in a united debate, the Law on the Use of Sign Language, which is a brand-new law and which we have not had so far, and a proposal to amend and supplement the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment. In my discussion, I will focus exclusively on these amendments and additions to the law, which will contribute not only to the reorganisation, but also to the rationalisation of the National Employment Service, as well as the application of new programmes that will monitor the needs of the local labour market. As a result of cost cuts, the number of board members from nine to seven is reduced, by appointed by the government, and on a proposal from the Minister responsible for the employment of four members including the president, and three members will appoint the Social-Economic Council. In this way, the competent ministry will supervise the work of the Management Board. The paper envisioned by this proposal for amending and supplementing the law is the obligation of NSZ staff to professionally improve and train as well as the obligation to verify their professional skills, which will be organised closer by the General Act of the NSZ and the Professional Training Programme. In addition to the measures already envisaged, the active employment policy also provides for other measures which are relevant for the implementation of the action plan, which relate primarily to the money needed to implement the active employment policy measures. In principle, this applies to additional education and training, to public works, as well as to the employment of persons with disabilities. Since the privatisation process under the Privatisation Act will be completed by the end of 2015, it is assumed that there will be a greater number of persons who will meet the conditions for cash compensation, insurance for unemployment at the NSZ, it was necessary to define precisely the part relating to whether a person whose insurance has ceased by his fault or his will, whether the person has received a severance or a cash compensation or some other cash compensation after the government's decision in the procedure of determining excess employees and whether that severance is greater than the one provided for by the Labour Act. Those persons will, of course, be entitled to unemployment benefits only when they meet certain conditions, and these conditions are to be in insurance continuously for at least 12 months or 18 months with interruptions, and the interruption is considered to be less than 30 days. Also, it is specified what is considered a basis for determining the amount of cash compensation, which is the average earnings paid to the unemployed in the last 12 months preceding the month in which the insurance stopped. It is specified how compensation will be charged if the profits are paid at a lower amount or if no contribution for compulsory unemployment insurance has been calculated at all. This category is particularly protected because it will set the cash compensation in the minimum amount provided for by law in order to avoid any abuses. Those who work in the NSZ know that there were problems related to the cash compensation to those who receive the fee up to 24 months, or until one of the first conditions for retirement. These amendments correct this, and now the fulfilment of these conditions for the exercise of pension rights on the basis of the insurance internships is demonstrated by an individual act from the PIO Fund. In Article 75, a supplement of point 3 has been made which, when the beneficiary's cash compensation is suspended, that is, when his right to remain in custody, as long as he is in custody. The refund of funds from the person who received it was also foreseen and had no right to do so because there were some changes in his working-legal status, and he did not report those changes, and he was obliged to report them. The resolution of the National Return Service is an executive document. Finally, what is foreseen is that the agency involved in foreign employment will bear all responsibility for persons employed abroad. As far as the Law on the Use of Sign Language is concerned, it is too important to speak of its importance. It is extremely important because it provides for the achievement of the Constitution of guaranteed basic principles, especially those concerning the prohibition of discrimination, especially when the question of persons with disabilities is. The aim of this law is actually to improve the situation of deaf persons by regulating the right to learn sign language and the right to use sign language interpreter services. In this way, these persons will be allowed to exercise different rights in accordance with their needs. What I would just add is that the adoption of this law is in line with a number of international law documents, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Civil and Political Rights Pact and the most important one, which is the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which is just allowing for full participation in all areas of life right now persons with disabilities. In voting day, the SNS will support these laws and vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26522	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26523	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, I cannot tell the entire presidency because only, and Mr. Arsenović, you are not here but two vice-presidents, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that not many of us can address it, especially against me from the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, I address you, Mr. Vulin, it is a pleasure to see you very often in this high house, the sanctuary of democracy, as some have said. That speaks of your work, you and your ministry and the entire government. I believe that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will recognise and adequately reward it. I don't want to talk about laws because of the time, just a few sentences on amendments and additions to the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. This law, I hold it in my hands, has its foothold in this exposé, I show it, the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, who submitted to us the MPs, at the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 27 April 2014. It ends in five days. This exposé of ladies and gentlemen, which you should all wear in bags, those carrying the bag, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, I now speak as a professor of history, is the most thorough, precise and comprehensive of all 72 previous since 1805, from the time of the first Serbian Prime Minister Prote Mateja Nenadovic, to this day. It's written on 52 densely typed pages or 84 in a row. I believe those who from the opposition smile that they haven't read it, I don't know for what purpose. Let me say that in this exposé on page 7, item 5 stands among other things, I quote - and the third largest task of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the economy will be to consolidate our budget by reducing costs and increasing our revenues. So we'd have more money to invest in creating new jobs. It's a finished quote. Ladies and gentlemen, have we done this estimated alone, respected citizens of Serbia. Of course we did, because it's time to sum up a few sentences and results for these days. Let me say it in one way, if not the first one, the second session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is not convenient to quote myself, but I said at the beginning. If this Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, saves the state from the Greek script, should be given a Nobel Prize, a quote completed. And of course she saved her life. Respected Serbian citizens do not have that scenario, we are going in a good direction. Mr. Vulin, it is good that you, sir, together with your ministry, have formed a task force dealing with the analysis and effects of the application of the Labour Act and its compliance with European regulations. I'd like to see the gentlemen of the opposition whether this is true or not. It's good, Mr. Vuline, that you plan to pass a social entrepreneurship law, a law on temporary workers abroad and a law on the Agency for Temporary Employment. Mr. Vulin, I'm going to say this sentence slowly, your Ministry is the only one in Europe that has kept the level of social rights and the regularity of payments in the year of the severe economic crisis. It's the Socially Responsible Government. For the sake of those smiling from the opposition, and let them check – your Ministry, Mr. Vulin, is the only one in Europe that has kept the level of social rights and regularity at stake in the year of the severe economic crisis. It's the Socially Responsible Government. I'm a man of science and science, and let the gentlemen check and deny me if that's not true. It's good, Mr. Vulin, that you are these amendments and additions to the Employment Act, which reorganize the National Employment Service. It's great, Mr. Minister, that you are these amendments to the law, which gives you opportunities to introduce new measures and employment programmes for everyone depending on the needs of local labour markets or if you want local communities and I warn our local communities. It is excellent, Mr. Vuline, that you will raise the austerity measures by rationalising, by stabilising the economic, because this proposal will reduce the number of members of the Management Board of the National Employment Service for the current nine to seven members. I don't have time to talk about boards at all, what should be done about them, and what hasn't been done in the last 10, 12, so if you want 15 years. It is a good thing that this proposal aims to improve the work of the National Employment Service, and in this respect to increasing the results of the work of the consultants working there. It is great that you will coordinate the Employment Action Plan that the Government of the Republic of Serbia brings on an annual basis with the needs of local labour markets, i.e. with local communities, and that is one of the obligations, not only the Ministry but also the Government towards the European Union. Respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the people's Parliament, on 27 April 2015, is five days from the election of our government. It's not convenient to quote yourself, but I've already quoted it once, but let me just say that it's been a year and that we should have, in some ways, a little bit more today to sum up some results. This government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Mr. Alexander Vukic is conducting severe and painful reforms, which were to be carried out ten years ago and not. Why -- let the citizens of Serbia evaluate. Mr. Minister, we will succeed, I will not say the ruling set, but the entire Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, especially the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not going to tell our law, I'm going to tell the Law on the work of all the MPs and those who have been saying all this time since the beginning that it's not theirs. Of course it is. Whose is, if it is not this Assembly, because it is our opposition, it should participate in the work, and not here are three MPs from the opposition, the honor of Chomićki, the honor of Bradic and the lady, I do not remember the last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26524	Please, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26525	Why are we gonna make it? Because that's what our citizens are looking for. Because it's good for the future of our children. Because it's good for all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our country. Because we have a good government. Because I know, Mr. Minister, how much the government loves its country and I know in particular, I really know how much the Prime Minister loves his country and how much he sacrifices himself, and we, and the president of the country, and we help others as much as we can. The merit of this is not only the Government, but also the entire Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, our MPs, more of us from the position, and I cannot say from the opposition, except for individual members. It's an honor to them, to the individuals. It is also the merit of this is our Serbian Progressive Party MP club headed by Mr Zoran Babic, who can proudly say that he is leading us, I can proudly say that he leads us, that he is present not only here, but on all committees and wherever he needs to be. It's a credit, ladies and gentlemen, and our little things, I won't tell all the MPs, one majority. It is not honorable, nor honest, to call upon those messengers who do not receive wages in this congregation, and those who receive them are not presently seen, never to the end. If some academically decent citizens and civil MPs and citizens' responsibility vote in favour of their amendments, my smallness will press the key to the next voting assembly and vote in that sense. Let me finally say I won't talk about other laws, I'm sorry I took a little more time, because a year still... Mrs. Comic throws out the opposition bench. I had to say these few sentences in some way. I am sorry that there are no more MPs from the opposition because I have prepared a lot of data concrete to cross data, not to tell stories, but to cross whether or not it is or not and to ask each other if something has been done. I'm gonna get this over with. A national MP from the opposition, and he was Prime Minister and Interior Minister, said on NTV the other day that "The Iron" should be closed and the workers sent home, finished a quote. That's how he worked with workers over the years. Unfortunately, he's not here today, only at first enters and eventually exits. Of course the SNS MPs and coalition partners, I would like to say immediately that the credit and coalition partners for this are going to vote in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26526	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26527	Since we're talking about people with disabilities, just to show by the language of numbers how much this country cares about. For 46 protection companies in which people with disabilities work, there are around 1.550 people with disabilities, the state annually allocates 700 million dinars for salaries, machines, re-promoting. For active employment measures for people with disabilities, the National Employment Service allocated 500 million dinars this year. The Ministry of Labour has singled out over 300 million dinars to fund the work of the alliance. Last year, according to various measures, the National Employment Service registered the employment of 4,100 people with disabilities. These are concrete things. This is how this country cares for people with disabilities. As you can see, whether anyone laughs or laughs, they haven't reduced a single dime for people with disabilities. No money. She hasn't reduced any single dinar to financial welfare, no child support, no maternity allowance, no disability benefits, no martial arts. No single dinar, no single dinar, we have reduced not a single donation, and in order for our citizens to understand how much money it is, let me tell you that for financial social aid, 14 billion dinars are allocated per month and not a single day is late. The budget of this ministry is 150 billion dinars. That's a third of the government budget of the Republic of Serbia. Out of that, 97% of that budget goes strictly to giving, strictly to rights and to giving. That's how much this country cares about and needs to be grateful for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26528	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26529	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, directors of the National Employment Service, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from the most beautiful municipality, the Svrljig municipality and I fully support these laws proposed by the Ministry of Mr. Vulin. The Law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment is now more detailed and will solve the problems that were in the previous law. First of all, it is that the number of board members is reduced. We are witnessing that in the previous law it was this and that the Director of the National Service was the ninth man to decide, and this board of directors was supposed to help him, to control. Now we have seven members, which is good because that's how you save the funds. It is also good that it will have the possibility of a supplement, more specifically related to public works. For example, local self-governments in the previous period received self-employment funds, public works, professional practice, where it was a particular problem for public works that local self-government itself, because of the Law on the Labour of Civil Servants and the restriction of the number of employees, could not respect a certain number of people for these public works. In this bill, there are still a lot of things my colleagues talked about, but I'm going to look more at the local self-government part, because I'm coming, I just said, from Svrlig, a municipality that is undeveloped, is devastated, a municipality where there are a lot of unemployed, but there are plenty of opportunities. Because when I talk about the Srlig municipality, I also talk about all the small municipalities that are in a difficult situation and where many people are unemployed. The Municipality of Srljig sets out 10 million, now this year has allocated 10 million from the budget for the needs of people who are unemployed, to compete normally with the National Employment Service and thus help these people to achieve their own life existence. It is about self-employment, public work, professional practice, and I hope, and I am sure that the National Employment Service will have the opportunity to identify municipalities such as Svrlig and to give these municipalities at least two or three dinars to a greater number of people in these municipalities, to assist in self-employment, to help with professional practice and, of course, public works. We also put the accent on public works, because in these small municipalities, such as my municipality, there are also needs around agriculture and around cooperatives, and these people can be involved in cooperatives to help improve agriculture through public works. I'm talking about agriculture because I come in front of the United Peasants' Party, a party whose programme is agriculture and employment of people in agriculture, and normal and legal entities. I'm sure these laws will help to make it much easier for people with hearing damage in the next period, as far as our country is concerned. I, as a man and as an MP in front of the United Peasants' Party, but from the list of the Serbian Progressive Party, will vote for both these laws and for all the laws proposed by the government headed by our prime minister. Once again, I will vote in favour of these laws, and I am sure that there will be opportunities and hearings, and I am specifically thinking about the National Employment Service, to help the municipality, such as Svrlig, to give at least 20 million people to work with. This applies to other municipalities that are underdeveloped, which are devastated and I hope that there will be opportunities for Nisavsky County to allocate more funding from the National Employment Service and that this part of Southeast Serbia will go a stronger and better way, that our people there can live easier and that the more jobs they have.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26530	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26531	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman of the National Assembly, respected ministers with associates, honored guests, honored ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we will discuss among other things the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, so that I would first refer to Article 3. The bill, which makes it possible to create a more flexible measure of active employment policy, depending on the need for the market, which is particularly seen through cost-setting. In particular, in the case of active employment policy measures, i.e. additional education and cost training, financial assistance, insurance costs for labour injury and occupational illness, transport costs to which unemployed training students are entitled, unemployed, including professional practice, as well as training costs on the labour market paid by the trainer or employer if the training is carried out at the request of the employer. The emphasis on financial assistance paid by the National Employment Service to the unemployed in the name of covering the costs that a person has during training, or training, so that the unemployed are motivated to participate in the programme. As a positive example of training by saying "Jinsi" that comes from Turkey, in particular, the city where I come from, in Leskovac, which has been defined as training 49 people on his own modern sewing machines and with the goal of later employment. The amendments to the Employment Act have more detailed terms and conditions for the exercise of the right to cash compensation for the unemployment of certain categories of unemployed persons, excess employees and employees whose employment relationship ended with their will or guilt. It is specified what is considered to be the basis on which the cash compensation for unemployment insurance is charged and the established method of calculating the cash compensation. In particular, in the branches of the National Employment Service with the provision of a basis for determining the amount of cash compensation in the event of unemployment and the calculation of cash compensation, in accordance with labour regulations, large savings will be made in respect of the payment of cash compensation, which in the last few years has been done largely in the judicial process. Article 8 The proposal for a law would be protected by beneficiaries of a cash compensation which has not been paid or is paid in a lower amount than the amount of the contribution calculated. The basis for determining the amount of cash compensation would be the basis on which the calculation of the contribution for compulsory unemployment insurance and the individual tax application was submitted to the competent authority. In practice, it happened that persons whose employment relationship ended with the payment of cash compensation, i.e. severances, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to set up a programme on the settlement of extra employees, i.e. the social programme, as well as employees whose employment relationship ended with their will or guilt, are based on a working relationship on a specific one, in practice often very short time, from 15 to 30 days, and sometimes less than 15 days, and break up a working relationship, on which they exercise the right and on a cash compensation for the case of unemployment, on which they would otherwise not have the right. After the entry into force of this law, those persons will have to be reassuranced for 12 months continuously or 18 months with an interruption, in order to obtain the right to cash compensation through the National Employment Service. The positive solution to the Employment Law proposal is that persons whose employment relationship ceases with the payment of the severance payment, in accordance with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a set programme on the settlement of the excess employee, will be able to exercise the right to cash compensation in the event of unemployment under the conditions set out in the draft Employment and Insurance Act for the event of unemployment. The amendment of the Employment and Insurance Act will contribute to the establishment of a system of continuous capacity-building of staff at the National Employment and Quality of Services Service for both employers and unemployed persons. Accordingly, the position of the SNS parliamentary group, as well as my personal position, is that we will support such a bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-22-0.u26532	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 6 and 7 of the agenda. With the work we will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, discussing the details of the drafts of the law set out in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. Thank you very much.
