ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33448	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for continuing work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33449	Thank you, President. I'm sorry, I didn't get ready in time. I ask the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection for an answer, an interpretation of the question given to me by the citizens of Backo Topola, which refers to the fact that the citizens of Backo Topola have a big problem with the depletion of the smell coming from the Gibel Cabinium in Backo Topola. The citizens of Backa Topola do not suffer this smell these years, but the problem is decades ago, because AIK Baka Topola, most likely in animal waste processing, does not respect certain rules, laws and regulations of this country. No one in this town, of course, wants AIK Baka Topola to stop working, because of that it certainly lives very many families, it is the existence not only of the citizens of Bačka Topol municipality, but of the neighbouring municipalities, so that the citizens of Backa Topola simply ask about the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment to protect them from these phenomena they suffer. Namely, they've already written petitions several times, then they've written lawsuits, etc., but none of the authorities in the municipal administration have helped them since the resorient inspections, I say, for decades. The "Gibel" office has been operating within AIK Backo Topol and has been breaking environmental regulations for years, polluting air in a wider area, contrary to Article 19. The law on air protection and the opposite is even the Regulation on air quality monitoring conditions and requirements. In the process of burning animal corpses, this cafilarium is released into the air, without the appropriate proper filters, which cross the level limit, polluting matter, so that polluting matter is released in the air, and with it the gases of an extremely unpleasant smell, which extends even to 10 kilometers in diameter from the site of the emissions, so that even the inhabitants of the Mali Gojesh municipality feel these polluted substances. The work of each casery is socially beneficial because in the process of destroying animal corpses it prevents possible spread. In this process, however, each casery must possess and use the correct filters, so as not to poison citizens and to avoid increasing the level of malignant diseases, a major case of these malignant diseases in Backo Topoli. Since the citizens of Backa Topola and Mali Ijoš are very disappointed with the passivity of the competent inspectors, they asked me to ask this question, in fact to ask the Resorna Ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, will they urinate, in fact, whether they will contact and check with the authorities in the municipality of Backo Topol and Mali Gojš, do they intend to protect, place filters and comply with the laws and regulations? I also ask the same question to the ministry, and it refers to the same municipality of Backo Topola. I'm going to get the information we got, and it's about the sea of fish in Lake Krinai. Of course, I'm saying again that it's in Bačka Topola municipality. There was a dead fish on the surface of the lake this weekend. According to these estimates, some 10,000 smudges died, many of which were thrown to shore. According to the press, at the invitation of the fishing service, a water industry inspector was invited to show that the deaths were most likely due to excessive draining of water to water the surrounding crops, causing the water level to fall below the biological minimum and the fish ran out of oxygen. Who drained the water too much? Is the dead fish referred to an analysis to determine exactly what led to the sea of fish? Was there a registered presence of a contaminant that poured waste water into the lake? Who is responsible for the damage done? These are all the questions I ask the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. It is alarming that two major environmental problems have occurred in one municipality. This only confirms our view that environmental protection issues must be addressed as a priority, because material damage is great, and the damage to citizens' health is inconspicuous and long-term. I ask the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to answer these two questions to the citizens of Backa Topola and Mali Ijoš as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33450	The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33451	Thank you. Dear President, I would like to request two notices from the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment. I recently spoke to representatives of farmers and agricultural companies who pointed out the problems they are facing, so I'd like to try to resolve the dilemmas about it. In light of the agricultural land law, the competent authority of local self-government is clearly required to complete all negotiations on the lease of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Serbia and to make decisions on those negotiations by 1 June of the current year, so until 1 June of the year in which the land is leased. It is quite possible that it is not so direct to the problem of the Ministry of Agriculture, but it is possible that the culprit is one of the authorities operating within the Ministry of Agriculture or one of the local self-government units. I will address the issue of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, as it is responsible for regulating this area and creating optimal operating conditions within its competences. In this regard, I would like to ask the following question – why has this been going on rarely in application for years, that these contracts, which are to be signed for the lease of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Serbia, are also signed with six months of delays, and that the signing of these contracts will take place in the next calendar year? It creates big problems for farmers, a few problems. One problem, let me say, conditionally, smaller, occurs when those who are bonders are to submit financial reports to which, on the one hand, they have to book, especially if they have made a lease payment for agricultural land, and I remind myself that the Agricultural Land Act clearly says that they have to pay full money for the lease, and only then is the contract signed, and that they are not able to book the contract because it is not signed at that time. This is why they get a negative opinion or opinion on the reserve of authorised auditors, which is why they may potentially have a problem, if they are looking for investors for a project, strategic partners or if it is agricultural enterprises in the privatisation process that may have a problem in the privatisation process. The other problem that arises is in fact the dilemma of what they do at the time of the time of premonition, when it is necessary to cultivate that country. They ran out of contracts that were official with the state. The new contract has not been signed. Is it at that time that they can practically "in possession" of the opposite of the law, because they have no contract to cultivate that country, and thus ensure that they have high yields on that country, but to deal with two potential problems, one is to bear a certain legal responsibility, and the other is that they may cultivate a country for someone else who will eventually get that parcel that year? Another problem that can arise is that they do not practically enter into possession, or cultivate the country. In this case, the country will not have the contributions it would have made under normal conditions, which will say it is quite possible to question the justification of the entire economic enterprise. Another question I want to ask is the same about the Agricultural Land Act, which clearly states in Article 62 that land can be leased from one to 20 years, and I'm interested – why is it very often with us, or at least I've received such information, that the lease of land is given for a year or for three years? Why is it important for the country to be leased in the long term, or longer term, or why is it not given for five, 10, or 15 years when the law gives such opportunities? Let's imagine a situation where a farmer takes the land for a year. What's his motivation for him to cultivate this country more? Absolutely nothing because he doesn't know what's gonna happen next year. Maybe next year someone else will get that parcel, which will say that he's cultured the country for someone else. The direct consequence is that we practically demote farmers to cultivate the country, thus reducing the quality of the land that is being processed and reducing future yields on these parcels. Not to mention, by giving agricultural land in long-term leases would practically give farmers the incentive to invest, because they would be safe, or have certain predictable, relatively safe revenues in the coming periods, based on which they could create investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33452	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33453	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, respected Nislija, the city of Nisa's decades-long problem is a two-part railway. What's very interesting is that on the territory of the city of Nis, there are 17 spring crossings, of which, you can imagine, there are as many as seven unsecured. Why am I asking this question? A little introduction to a problem that plagues the citizens of Nis. The start of the electrification of Serbian railways, i.e. Serbian railways, there was a serious problem in the town of Nis because there was an intention that the authorities at the time, more than a decade and a half ago, would electrify the railway in the current route. This was inadmissible and the citizens of Nis strongly opposed, so that at the session of the City Assembly in 2009, a unanimous decision was taken, and by the opposition and the positions, not to allow the electrification of the existing route, or, however, that it could be done, provided that the route was lowered to the underground route, so as not to interfere and divide the city into two parts. The town of Nis in the last term, in 2010, competed and received 1.5m euros for a feasibility study and a major railway shift project between the Red Cross railway station and the place called Average, in order to move the railway along the highway, i.e. With the northern edge of the city and the one that goes through the city and divides the city into two parts, I say, with 17 crossing points, seven of which are unsecured and very risky, changed the intentions of those railways, or completely confused, depending on what the waist says and what they say, besides, the City Assembly and the citizens of Nis. It was at a time when the contract was supported and made possible by Mr Versan Denger, president of the European Commission in Serbia. The tender was held in 2012. She got a Czech firm to design and make that feasibility study. Even the present congregation majority, which was repainted by the congregation majority in this room, gave their board representative to control the implementation and spending of that money. What was promised then, and what was certain is that from these pre-accession funds, and I'm talking about gratis funds, these are not loans, the city of Nis has a chance to get funds to just move the railroad. The estimates were different, but it was a figure of about 9-10m euros. What is interesting, just over a year ago, was once again the idea of electricity, as was said at the time – the temporary electrification of the track track which is now passing through the city. What's good is that the citizens of Nis and the representatives of the city's Assembly, which is a picture of the situation from this hall, voted unanimously that it is unacceptable to electrify the railway through the city of Nis. It is a very important issue for the city and citizens of Nis, a decades-old problem, which has not been solved, but what can happen, and that is my question to the Prime Minister, is to do the electrification of the existing route and thereby definitely tear the city apart in two parts and thus make it impossible for the city of Nis to develop quality. Citizens of Nis and representatives, whether in this House or in the city parliament, are against such a solution because it will reverse the development of the city. What I'm asking the Prime Minister is – how long has it been done and what has been done for the past three years, because we know that a project of feasibility study has probably been done and has it continued to apply to obtain funds to move the railroad from the city centre? I repeat again, the citizens of Nis are against the electrification of an existing route, because it will reverse the development of the city of Nis. I note again that the current assembly majority of the city also voted in favour of not allowing the railway to be electrified and joined by the opposition. So a unanimous decision, such as a unanimous decision not to allow the privatisation of the public media service of the city of Nis, was allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33454	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic. He gave up. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33455	Thank you. The first question for Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar – how much is total and in which municipalities and cities of Serbia's diabetes counselling facility? I'm asking for two reasons. During the government's 2004-2007 term of office, the Minister's recommendation was practically left to primary health care or health care directors to decide whether or not diabetes counselling centres would be. Unfortunately, it has been interpreted, in my knowledge, which is why I need an answer in which the municipalities and cities of the diabetes counselling facility have in which it is not, that it is unnecessary. Diabetes is not only a modern age disease, it has different causes, but it is made by people of different ages. That's why I think that the diabetes counselling centres, when they were established and working, had good results, so that's why I ask the health minister to give me an answer to the question where they exist now, so that after that answer we could, hopefully together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health, to launch an action to cover all cities and municipalities with diabetes counselling, as well as to expand the list of preparations offered to diabetics, in order to make a huge number of people who have a problem with this disease have the best possible availability and treatment, and advice, for their life with diabetes. The second question is also Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar and Minister of Agriculture and Environment Protection Snezani Boskovic Bogosavljevic, as regards how to determine the quality of drinking water in Serbia's cities and municipalities. So, a question for the health minister, and he will get an answer from the competent services, inspections, agencies and the Public Health Institute, it says - what is the state of the water quality for drinking in Serbia? Question for Minister Boskovic Bogosavljevic - what has been applied so far by the National Strategy for the Sustainable Use of Natural Resources in Serbia, where the use of water, drinking water, and water of each type is one of the most important parts? I ask the question knowing that the answer must be described and ensnared, because it seems to me that the quality of drinking water, the supply of drinking water, and the factors in the springs almost makes little difference. With this in mind, the issue for Minister Loncar and Minister Boskovic Bogosavljevic on the amount of money in the budget positions for the necessary analysis in the incidents. Today we heard a colleague named Olena Papug talking about a serious fish-killing accent. In our consultations and in our conversations, we understand that a water industry inspector who wants to sample a fish cannot charge for the analysis of dead fish unless it determines who the polluter is. So, in short and as clear as possible for Minister Boskovic Bogosavljevic and Minister Lončar – what is being applied by the National Strategy for Sustainable Use of Natural Resources in Serbia and where and when are the analysis of the quality of drinking water in Serbia being carried out? I'm not going to ask the Minister about the incidents, but my question is related to a number of factors that happened in the springs, in the wastewater discharges, as in the Danube near Novi Sad, and of course it concerns drinking water that people in Serbia use from private sources, from private wells. I consider this one of the most important topics, and I hope that the answers I get will also serve our common dialogue on how to fix a better state of water quality for drinking and water storage in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33456	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33457	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. Let me make a brief introduction before asking questions. Also, you will allow me to take this opportunity to introduce to you a little closer to where it comes from and which I represent in the Republic Parliament. First of all, I feel a great responsibility to the citizens of Prokuplje and I want to present the people who come from that area in the right way, just a place, but unfortunately the problems that we currently have in the city itself and who have brought Prokuplje into a very invisible situation. According to the 2011 census, the municipality of Prokuplje is the largest municipality of Toplička district and numbers 44,419 inhabitants. As such, it is the economic, administrative and cultural centre of the Toplički district. In the municipality of Prokuplje, however, there is a trend in the decline of population, which is primarily conditioned by poor economic development. The number of working-age residents is 16.527, the unemployment rate is 32% and the average net earnings are 33,733 dinars, some of the reasons for large migration are mostly young people from Prokuplje. However, what is particularly significant is the debt of the municipality of Prokuplje, which amounts to over two budgets of the municipality of Prokuplje, more specifically over two billion dinars. It is a great burden on the budget of the commitments and debts incurred between 2006 and 2012 most of them during the exercise of the Democratic Party's power in Prokuplje. We can say that this at the end of the line today represents a major restriction on some serious infrastructure projects. Unfortunately, this is a debt made by the irresponsible government of the Democratic Party, which has only increased for years and, unfortunately, led to this incredible amount being reached. Despite all the problems, however, the management of the municipality of Prokuplje managed to service all current obligations in this past period and, more importantly, to service the obligations of the past. Also, the realization of several infrastructure projects is under way, of course, how much financial opportunity it allows. Currently, the biggest problem of the municipality of Prokuplje is the debt of the Public Enterprise of the Directorate for Construction, Urbanism and Residential Affairs in the municipality of Prokuplje, which currently stands at 540 million dinars. It's a really big sum, and I'll tell you how it came to be. The majority of the debt concerns the request of the former Nis Road Company from Nis, which took over the "Universal Bank" a.d. Belgrade. At that time, the responsible persons in the Directorate and the local self-government, without a public procurement plan, without the planned and provided funds, directly contracted all the jobs to the Nis Road Company. In this way, the Public Enterprise of the Construction Directorate has brought into a state of liquidity, for a total amount of over 540 million dinars, thereby directly jeopardising the survival of the municipality of Prokuplje. I note that the agreement to take over claims between PDP Nis, on the one hand, according to the Construction Directorate and the "Universal Banka" a.d. Belgrade, on the other hand, was signed on 30.12.2010. All are likely to know the ownership structure and PDP Nis and "Universal Banka" a.d. Belgrade, now "Universal Banka" a.d. Belgrade in bankruptcy. At this point in time, Belgrade's commitment to the Universal Bank is at stake at 405 million dinars, which includes a capital of 190 million dinars, and the rest is a tight interest and costs of court proceedings. The municipality of Prokuplje, primarily by the "Universal Bank" a.d. Belgrade in bankruptcy of 405 million dinars, would have unconceived consequences for further functioning. So the survival of not only the municipality, but our city has been questioned by the irresponsible policy that has been led. My question for the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Serbia is – is it possible to effectively and thoroughly examine the legality of the handling of the authorities and responsible persons of the Municipality of Prokuplje in the negotiation of affairs, the execution of works and duties in the case of the Nis Roads Company, i.e. "Universal Banka" a.d. Belgrade? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33458	Thank you. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following deputies: Branko Ružić, Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, Vesna Besarović, Branko Djurović and Branko Bosnjak. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the drafts of the law in points 10 and 11 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Professor Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, as well as co-workers from the Ministry. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for legislation on the transport of goods in road transport and a proposal for a law on the transport of passengers in road transport. Does the proposal's representative, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, want the word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33459	Presidents, dear MPs and MPs, two very important laws are in front of you today, the Law on Transport of Freight in Road Transport and the Law on Transport of Passengers in Road Traffic. To this day, I hope, the day that you will accept and vote these laws, this area has been covered by four laws, when we talk about the transport of passengers, especially in domestic transport, especially in international transport, and so on when we talk about the transport of cargo. I want to inform you that the analyses say that the total revenues of road transport are 150m euros per year, that we are these laws that are ahead of you and I hope that after one, as always, serious debates, we will be able to improve, if necessary, existing laws, so to tell you that we want to make it possible for us to compete even better with transport companies. We want first of all to protect the passengers who are being transported and, of course, the burden that is being carried. We want everything that is in illegal flows, which is a lot in illegal flows, more than 100m euros in Serbia is losing because of the grey economy in road transport, to get in, to express myself so jargonically, in legal flows. Of course, to comply with EU directives, in this sense, and to really enable full protection of carriers. I also want to inform you that both laws were in public debate, that public debates were held almost in all major cities in Serbia. In addition, all associations of carriers, whether in transport, or in passenger transport, have had many meetings with us. In this year alone, five meetings were held with me. All their suggestions that we could include in this law, we did. I believe this law is a modern law that will contribute to an efficient transport economy in Serbia. I believe that it will enable even greater revenues to the transporters, hence the state through payment, of course, of all those obligations they have to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33460	Do the officials of the committees want a word? You've come forward as a reporter, please. Dr. Vladimir Orlic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33461	Ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting to you the position of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, which, at the session held this morning, was considering, in principle, the proposed laws. During a report by the ministry's representatives, but also through a discussion that followed, more than quality solutions were highlighted, which were incorporated into the proposed draft laws. It was also found that there is a very high level of compliance with good practice, standards and EU recommendations, and in line with that, at the end of the discussion, the Committee representatives unanimously voiced support for these solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33462	Thank you. Who calls from the president or representative of the parliamentary groups? Nobody. May I conclude? So we're moving on to a list of speakers I don't have yet. No, no one's answering. No one wants to talk, it's just fine. Ivana, you? Here you go. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33463	I thank the president. I am pleased that only a few days after the adoption of a set of air traffic laws, we today face such serious and very good road traffic laws. I would just say, so briefly, that because of our country's specific geopolitical position, we are definitely a bond between the East and the West. We represent one transit node, and I hope it will develop much more in the future, of course, thanks to all these laws that are being passed. So, what is very necessary is for serious laws to be passed, as is the case now, and traffic to develop and that these laws comply with EU rules. The intense development of air traffic is an indication that we are on a very good path, but it is definitely road traffic for us the most significant and the most intense and therefore these two laws today are very important to us. As the respected minister has already mentioned, four laws regulated this type of traffic earlier and it was merged, so passenger transport and cargo transport were conducted under one law. We now have laws dealing separately with these issues, so we have a separate transport of freight passengers in domestic and international traffic. Why is this still so important? I'd like to point out that road traffic carries about 80% of the cargo and 74% of the passengers. That's why I said road traffic is important to us. Economic operators operating today have definitely moved on to private ownership, but it is still an obligation for the state and state authorities to regulate legislation regarding this area, as regards access to profession, market, services, transport, and in line with EU regulations and conditions in our country. The biggest problem in every kind of transport is precisely the gray economy, and that is what needs intensive work and much more serious work to keep it down, because, as we heard, over a hundred million loses Serbia because of illegal transport. Therefore, carrying out activities without permits and performing activities without licences, destroying both small and medium-sized transport companies, thus destroying both the quality of services and the safety of users of these services. So some of the problems that arise in both modes of transport are definitely similar, but solutions for them are different. That's why we're talking about two separate laws today. So, we have before us a law on the transport of freight in road transport, which will solve this problem of the grey economy by setting new conditions, which, in terms of the necessary business reputation of the carrier, means that the future carrier will not be able to be someone who has criminal and misapplication, then, will have to have the basic financial capacity to perform this activity, professional skills to perform and to know the conditions and regulations, because so far it has happened to pay serious penalties just because carriers do not know the rules, especially in international traffic, and of course, special conditions for drivers and conditions of technical equipment. Also, another major problem is the lack of a common base, so, a comprehensive database, and a record of the use of licenses at customs crossings and internal checkpoints. So, it happened that foreign carriers without permission or with one permit repeatedly carry cargo through our country, which, of course, damaged our domestic carriers. Therefore, the new law prohibits the making of cabotage to foreign carriers. That means they're carrying out cargo transports within our country between cities within our country, except in special conditions, when we need that kind of transport, and we don't have it in our possession. Also, there was no legal framework for the registration of entrepreneurs, especially those carrying out transport for their own purposes. That's what's very important. This way, when registered at local levels, in city and municipal administrations, public transport checks and controls will be carried out to curb the grey economy. What is also very important for our domestic carriers is that it is abolished for three years, as a condition for international transport, three years of domestic transport, which in some ways prevented all our carriers from having conditions fulfilled, to deal with international transport. So this is how competition will be achieved, a new market and new jobs will be opened. What is very important is that licences are introduced in both domestic and international transport. Therefore, the necessary documentation will be clearly defined and, in order to obtain a licence, the domestic carrier will have to provide a person responsible for transport, financial resources, cargo vehicles owned or leased, then hire a number of drivers and provide a permanent seat. What is very important to point out, what will be very important to our domestic carriers and how it will mean, is that through a license they will be able to carry cargo on the territory of the former Yugoslav states, which has been kind of difficult for them so far. So domestic carriers were often in trouble because of the principle of reciprocity, especially by other countries. It will now be arranged in a way to exchange international permits with other countries on the basis of international agreements and agreements. Therefore, the government will define the criteria for the distribution of licences by means of a regulation and will preserve reciprocity in this way. It's very important that license deadlines are in place. So it's now at 30, 40, 50, 60 days, depending on how they estimate in the competent ministry. This will allow some smaller carriers to get a chance to deal with international transport, not to book a license with another carrier that is not using at the moment. In this way, about 250 international permits are returned daily, which is very important. Inspective powers have been increased, both at the republican level and at the local level. A designated person will be able to shut down the vehicle for 90 days due to irregularities. So all of these benefits that are happening, i.e. which are foreseen by this law, are to eliminate discrimination and administrative barriers, create better conditions for protecting users, greater quality of services, to create new jobs, better coordination of information exchanges. As regards the second law, it was a road transport law, and this law deals in a special way with the transport of passengers in domestic international traffic, then the transport of persons for their own needs in domestic and international traffic, the provision of cell services, the operation of inspection controls. This is where work licenses are introduced which is very important and this law first introduces the notion of illegal transport which is precisely defined and says that it will not be able to drive more than five people in one vehicle that is not related and that the competent authority will have the right to control the type of vehicle it suspects and, of course, to photograph or record the rights and to pursue criminal charges later. The aim of this law is to comply with EU rules and what is very important is that there is an even more intense fight against the gray economy here, because it is much more pronounced here. We're all witnessing an increasingly frequent illegal liner transport. We all witness that vans transport passengers more often than buses, especially between neighboring cities. So, what is a statistical indication is that the number of passengers, i.e. transported passengers, is increasing and that the number of registered vehicles from six to nine seats called the van is increasing. About 42 and a half thousand of these vehicles are currently registered. This is basic evidence that this is about illegal passenger transport. What matters is that the van doesn't go away. The van is not even intended for transport, public transport for service of liner transport, that is a passenger vehicle operated by a person who has a ‘B’ category permit, means that the driver is not subject to or the vehicles are not subject to safety standards. So, in that sense, there are no basic conditions for good transport, quality transportation and nowhere in the world is the van used for these purposes. So the van is considered all that has eight seats plus one for the driver, meaning up to nine passenger seats. If there weren't any security checks, it's an indication the other day that a van was returned from Greece when a tired driver had the strength to drive because there's no tachograph to measure driving time and time. So the passenger took over the vehicle and kept driving. It is precisely this indication that the result of this unconscious use and transportation of passengers can be immeasurable in human lives. Of course, what's also very important are our losses in money, the losses of the state, and they're also how measurable. It is exactly about 54m euros per year that is lost in this mode of transport. What there is no excuse for these vehicles to be used, and if someone said there are few passengers on a particular line, it is precisely what is already bigger for one seat, it is called mini buses, only with ten seats can already be registered for public transport. So there can be no excuse that buses are too big on certain lines. So mini buses from ten to 22 places or big buses above 22 places can meet all these needs. Also, there will be greater powers of inspection services, as I said in the previous law, both at the republican and local level. So, authorized persons will be able to rule out as much as they suspect with evidence that there is an abuse of transportation. The proposal for this law creates normative conditions for access to the INTERBUS agreement, a multilateral agreement which clearly determines the conditions and mode of operation of international passenger transport, so clear rules, identical control of all documents. There will be a passport as a control document, and passports and records will be kept by the competent ministry. All administrative restrictions have been lifted which made it difficult for inter-urban and international passenger transport to function, so from now on the confirmation of the leader's order instead of a year earlier and made it difficult to function and bring costs, the driving order will now be confirmed for five years, and there will also be an opportunity to change the order of driving in so far as there is a need to avoid monetary losses. And here the condition of three years of domestic traffic has been lifted as a condition for international transport. What's very important is that this law will solve the situation if there is a break of a line for any reason. Therefore, the ministry will designate a temporary carrier in the old order of driving to register a new carrier and thus make it impossible for all those who would like to deal with the grey economy, i.e. to launch their illegal transport on that line. What's also important is that the regulated issue of cellular services that has been a problem so far has been regulated. Although the problem of cell service is the underlying business, therefore, and here will be the licenses and the cell service will only be able to give owners of the bus station, the one in which it is owned, so that all those disputes that have been happening so far will be disabled if there is a conflict of interest between the tenant and the tenant. In addition, the Government will, on a proposal from the competent minister, determine the way in which the highest price of the peron map will be formed, or cell services, so that passengers do not run from the stations because the platform map is much more expensive than the ticket they will pay on the bus to their destination. Because of all these positive changes that are going to happen with the new laws, we've all confirmed that this is two great laws that are ahead of us, that this will bring great development in road traffic, of course great support in the day of voting and all the congratulations on these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33464	Thank you. The word is Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33465	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Ms. SPO has always felt that the state is the main generator of the crisis in any area. If we look at the way we've been editing road transport, freight and passenger transport so far, then we see that the main cause for the illegal market, for the gray economy, for the poor position of those who work legally, for the privileged position of those who work illegally, has just made it possible for the state to create such a legal framework and such an ambience. In our public, primarily because of our recent fresh wounds, due to NATO bombing, because most EU member states have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, we still have resistance to European standards in much of the public. However, in any area of our social and public life to look into, we will see that the EU countries, even in this area, have arranged the system everywhere fairly. Our public needs to know that our ambition is primarily for EU membership, it is to pursue a one-valued system, towards a more honest and orderly and better society, and so do these two laws. Not because of the desire to have a negative relationship with any proposal, any government or any ministry, but because of the desire to come up with better laws, to create the most honest environment, he was often a critic of many laws. However, today two very good laws have come into the congregation procedure and we will be very pleased to vote for them, and now I will state the most important reasons. In addition to losing between 100m and 200m euros per year in road transport, two key things for us, for all carriers, for all economic operators dealing with this type of transport are crucial. It is the first thing that all those who work legally and who pay taxes and who have licences and who have licences and so on, in some way destimulated and punished what is not the case only in this area. The other thing is, we've literally looked through the fingers of those who work illegally and on black. On the other hand, it is also necessary to understand, but not to justify the people who entered the gray zone, the gray economy. For what? The State concludes the process of examining 24 disputed privatisations, i.e. the most controversial privatisations. It is a positive warrant that has arrived from Brussels, not thanks to the great desire of our society to examine these privatisations, but thanks to the heroine's fight against corruption, Mrs Verica Barac. You, Madam Minister, said something in the previous campaign that we fully agree on, that it is not necessary to examine 24 controversial privatisations, but rather to examine 3,000 controversial privatisations, or 5,000 or 8,000 controversial privatisations. Unfortunately, most of the privatisations in Serbia are controversial. Now, as a consequence of the ambience created by the state, as a consequence of the desire that people, first of all, from the gray economy, that people who illegally acquired their capital in order to wash their money, such money also entered the privatisation of many transport companies, many companies that were the pride of our road traffic. On one occasion while staying in "South Transport" in Krusevec, I met a rare example that workers in the company had established a consortium, that they had become owners of the company and it seems to me a lonely case in our country, but when we heard their stories about what pressure they had from tycoon, from ministers, from the government, to leave it to the largest tycoon in the country, of course, it was likely that the tycoon's wish was not to deal with transport, but to reach attractive locations, above all, as far as land is concerned. Thanks to this country's relationship, above all, the state was criminal, today we don't have a "Rocket" from Užica, "A Auto-Transport" from Vranjska Banja, "7. July" from Šapca, "Auto-Transport" from Loznica, "Auto-Banat" from Zrenjanin, auto-transport companies "Vojvodina", Novi Sad, "Srem-express" from Sremska Mitrovica, "Topola-trans" from Backa Topola, "Auto-transport" from Negotina, "Timas" from Zaječar, "Jugo Transport" from Jagodina, "Velmatrans" from Ćupri, "Jugo Transport" Paracin, Auto-Transport company "Pirot", "South Express" Leskovic and "Auto-Transport" Kragujevac. It's a job that needs to be examined by the state and found responsible for the downfall of these companies, and mostly for everything the public knows, it's a major crime. Thanks to this country’s attitude, people employed by these companies are left, most of them unemployed, and many drivers have entered the gray economy. The Agency for Business Registers has registered many companies carrying out transport operations, but many are not registered, and on the other hand, the state did not have a normative framework for the issue of many transport licences. For example, I will mention something that is good in all of this, that 65 new transport companies were registered in 2013, and in 2011 209, 2012 204 companies, in 2013, 186 enterprises, in 191 enterprises and that 42,494 passenger vehicles from six to nine places are engaged in this type of work. The state did a lot of things, but it didn't. Thanks to this, in addition to these two negative effects I mentioned, the state loses a lot of revenue in its budget, then creates an unhealthy environment. Those who work honestly, say that we are punished by the state and pay all taxes to the state, work on valid regulations and permits, and on the other hand, we have unfair competition that does not pay the government, has no license and threatens those who do. It's a good thing that you've been preparing for this law, actually having one broad public debate, which is that all those who were interested in these laws being better, taking part, that their suggestions, and I've been following the public debate, are mostly considered, and I think this is going to create another environment. The problem that you have listed in the reasoning of the law, and I think the state has to solve, is the problem of an inspector who controls road transport and has only 20, which is very little, or they don't have adequate equipment for that kind of control or the equipment has worn out and out, and a few inspectors use one computer, logs often write by hand as if it were the 19th century, the records are often illegible and messy, which is not the inspector's fault, and our assessment has always been in this part, and I believe that with that, Minister, you agree that investment in that kind of control is worth it very quickly. In addition to giving meaning to who represents the state, which in this case is the inspector, when the inspector shows up with a pen, with some paper and writes on some folder, there is no uniform that is adequate, there is no equipment that is adequate, it is a picture and an opportunity of the state, and not only in this area, we have always talked, the civil servants are pictures and opportunity of the state. When you reach the border of a country and you see border officials, you immediately understand what kind of state you're dealing with, and only when you see civil servants doing their jobs is it a proof of the seriousness and responsibility of a state. As with passenger transport and freight transport, many businesses without the capacity of the carrier were involved, and many companies and individuals who carried out this type of transport were threatened, and foreigners without proper permits, there was no good legal framework for obtaining permits, and on inspection supervision, I think I said quite well. As for the Law on the Transport of Passengers in Road Traffic, except for the transport of persons, not burdens, ambience, situation and Javezlu are similar to road traffic. The differences are only in shades. That's why this law is really something that seems optimistic, which is really one comprehensive way in all segments of this area, it seems to me in a fair way. As a result, all entities involved in the transport of passengers and states will benefit from the adoption of this law through the achievement of revenues, as well as citizens of those types of services. So far, there have been various trades on line-by-line, international transport and it's all been black, it's all in the system, I'm you, me, I'm getting a license, and you're running a transport, I'm registering a company to handle international transport, and then I'm letting someone else do it. No frequent driving schedules are respected. Local self-government had the authority to change views, many of the lines that were really necessary for the transport of passengers were lifted, we were contacted by citizens countless times and asked why many lines had been lifted. Imagine when the state has this kind of carelessness that citizens don't have their own transportation, and then a simple bus line is lifted and people are left to themselves. Now, what's good is that earlier permits for that kind of transport have been valid for a year, and now they've been valid for five years. Secondly, the local self-government will no longer be able to change bus stops by their decisions, and the third is that carriers will have to respect bus stops, timetables, so even when they get a license for a certain type of transport, they will also have to drive on lines that are not economically cost-effective at some point, but will therefore make bigger revenues on some other lines. That's what I've recognized as something that citizens will benefit greatly from adopting this law. Licenses to carry out all kinds of public transport. Finally, the international and domestic line and domestic vanilla etc. Conditions for issuing a transport licence. That's something we've been waiting long to bring. In addition, it is necessary to issue a certificate of professional training and the authority of the licensing authority to give its consent, then to register an economic operator carrying out international transport for their own purposes. For the first time, the ministry will have records of all those involved in transport, which is very important for later ministry interventions and for many cases in which a carrier, for example, will give up performing a certain type of transport. Then the ministry will have the authority to hire another carrier. What is very important to us and what we have always, as a political party, sought, and that is forcing a business reputation. We have also witnessed these days that the owners of some tourist agencies who have been involved in the fraud of citizens have been arrested for years. So someone who has been punished for commercial crimes, who has been punished for crimes in the area of safety of transporting passengers in public transport, imagine getting a license to carry out this type of activity. That's what it's been so far. This condition has never existed before, and imagine how citizens experience this country. It gives people licenses to deal with such an important activity. It's not just the transport, it's the security, the security of the citizens, the safety of the family, the security of the property, the security of the other traffic users. Then, financial capacity will be taken into account, professional training, driver training and what is very important, the condition regarding the real and stable headquarters of a society that is registered to carry out this type of activity, because this company will have to keep the documentation there. In the event of any inspection surveillance, complete documentation must be there, otherwise the following penalties, which has not been the case so far. In international transport, the entrepreneur, who will carry out international transport, no longer has to be made a condition for registering his activity that he carried out transportation within our country within at least three years. So far, such a provision has been absolutely discriminatory. Why would someone who meets the full conditions of international transport have to drive around Serbia for the first three years in order to carry out this type of transport? This means that so far the lobbys, which have earned big money on this, have had a dominant impact on legislation. That's why this kind of demonopolization, breaking these types of lobbies, is one big step that's positive. Then it is forbidden for public transport to carry out a person who does not have the capacity of a public carrier to control the grey economy. The inspector now has the authority to exclude buses and passenger vehicles from public transport, protecting all those carrying out legal transport, which is again an extraordinary provision. I wanted to tell you, Ministers, something I've been hinting to some of the other ministers about in some of the other regulations. This has been suggested by the European Commission, not only in the last report, but also in many previous reports, which is that often the state authorities within our country do not have sufficient coordination. This was certainly the case with the transport of passengers and the transport of freight in road transport. For what? Simply, if there is no inspector, the police will stop the carrier and see that there is no license, that there is no corresponding passport, etc. So, the police are looking at what's the police's part of the security of traffic. If they do not meet these conditions, they say – go, have a happy journey. I think that kind of coordination is that a police officer should immediately contact the relevant inspector, keep that person, the driver, to come in and simply, in case he does not meet the other legal requirements, not only respect traffic safety, but not meet the conditions for performing that activity, automatically reacts. Countless times so far, our citizens, when they leave for any problem in any inspection, most often get an answer – we are not in charge of it. It's as if every citizen has to know exactly the jurisdiction of certain inspections, so much so that he's educated to appear right in the right place, at the right time with the local inspector, if that doesn't hit, then he's giving up his hands. No, that inspector or state authority or civil servant should say - I am not in charge, but we will immediately contact whoever is in charge, so the matter will be resolved, as in all EU countries. With us, it is a practice that has been rooted since the day of the origin of the Republic. As for the license, I think I've said a lot...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33466	It's been 20 minutes. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33467	Thank you, Madam President. We are facing two laws that should reduce the grey economy in road traffic and also adapt our legislation to the EU's legal assets. We agree that the intention is good and in that sense we support it. There are a lot of inaccuracies or provisions that make business more difficult. I'd point to them. We have submitted almost 30 amendments and depending on the adoption of these amendments, we will define how we will vote in favour of the law. First, in several places in both laws it is written that, with certain requirements, certified photocopies of documents issued by the competent authorities are submitted. Why certified, if those documents are already issued by the competent authorities or even by the Ministry to whom a specific request is submitted? For us, it's just more complicated business. If the State Authority suspects the authenticity of the copy attached, it can simply check with another State Authority whether the copy or photocopy that has been delivered is original or is forgeries. In Article 7. The Law on freight transport in road transport does not provide for operational capacity. Therefore, we believe that carriers are obliged to organise freight transport in accordance with normal business standards. Therefore, the licence is issued to those who have a business reputation, financial capacity, professional training, a real and permanent seat, an appropriate rolling stock, an appropriate number of employees, but no operational capacity is foreseen. We have foreseen amendments to ensure that potential carriers, who want to get a licence, are operationally capable, i.e. that, in accordance with normal business standards, they organise the operation of freight transport. In Article 37, I believe that paragraph 4, it is stated that when carrying out the transport of goods in a freight vehicle or a set of vehicles, which the domestic carrier uses, on the basis of the lease contract, there must be an original lease contract or an approved photocopy of the lease agreement with translation into English, French, Russian or German in the case of a freight vehicle or a set of vehicles used to carry cargo in international traffic in accordance with the transport licence, etc. We haven't found it anywhere in international standards, international rules, and we find that provision simply to make business more difficult and complicated. So we don't need to ask our carriers to have more documentation than those provided for by international rules. Article 57 provides that the ministry will co-operate with commercial chambers and representative associations of carrier employers in the decision-making process under its jurisdiction to carry out freight in domestic and international commercial traffic. What's the criterion of being a representative association? So if you've already written that there is a representative association, you should have defined how that criterion is met. We simply predicted that the word - representatively deleted and that the ministry would co-operate with the chambers and associations of carriers. In the end, I will return to the proposal for a law on the transport of freight in road traffic, because I find it very interesting to pass the law by an emergency procedure, but before that, I would like to discuss the transport of passengers in road traffic. Article 16(1) says - the domestic carrier is obliged to keep the original transport licence in its seat. Now it could be the bus seat, it could be another seat, we just added that it's a business seat, so it's not the seat in the vehicle itself. More importantly, the legislator foresees that the condition regarding the rolling stock meets the company, the other legal entity or entrepreneur if owned or leased, and what is disputed for us is - the provision of at least two registered buses for carrying out international extra-line transport produced after 1 October 1993. So, we demand, and that's one of our amendments that we insist on, that buses are not over 15 years old. We think it's necessary for the safety of our citizens. As soon as the next Article 26. - the driver service meets the company if there is a working relationship number of drivers which is not less than the number of buses entered in a written application for the issue of a licence for domestic and international line transport. We think it's a small number of drivers. So we predict that there must be at least 10% more drivers than the number of registered vehicles, because it can always happen that certain drivers are absent because of their vacation, due to the sickness, etc. And we think it's necessary for the number of drivers to be 10% higher than the number of registered vehicles. In Article 28, for example. The final position, paragraph 4, says that the solution set out in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this article is final, but is not indicated that an administrative dispute can be initiated against this solution. That is, to say the legal possibility, and we have complemented this view that the solutions made by the ministry can be triggered by administrative dispute. What is most controversial in all these laws or in both laws is because these laws regulate sensitive matter in the area of public interest, why are certain competences transferred to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce? So, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, according to data from their site, represents business interests with the government and other state bodies, provides support to domestic and foreign companies through services of intermediation, counselling, business information, improving economic co-operation with abroad and promoting Serbia as a good investment destination, providing business education, improving the knowledge of employees and managers, strengthening the competitiveness of domestic economy in the EU accession process. The legislator predicted that Serbia's Chamber of Commerce prescribed general conditions for bus stations, general conditions for inter-urban traffic, to keep track of the position for inter-urban transport, to prescribe an inter-minor remote, to carry out the process of harmonising the proposals for driving orders with registered driving schedules in inter-urban transport, etc. It's inadmissible for us. There are more reasons. Therefore, the general conditions of business also include the rules of procedure applying the bodies of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and we believe that a better solution is that the minister or ministry prescribes rules to be followed by the bodies of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce in dispute settlement, rather than the Serbian Chamber of Commerce itself, to do so. Also, the question arises – who protects the public interest, who ensures that transport is carried out in accordance with the needs of citizens and not in line with the needs of carriers? For example, bus carriers are already carrying out transportation only when it suits them. We have a situation that from many places in Serbia after 19 hours there are simply no regular lines to larger cities. And instead of protecting the public interest of this law, the legislator gives up the instrument of influence on such a significant activity. So it's inadmissible for us and these are the amendments we're going to insist on. I have a dilemma. Last week, the minister asked for two years to prescribe some sublaws, and now she's renouncing some responsibilities. Are you a personal question – that you are not a little tired or that you have too much work to do? (Zorana Mihajlović, from the place: Do I look like that to you? ) You do not act on me, but it is simply amazing that you leave such a significant area to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Yes, it was established in accordance with the law, etc., established by law, but we believe that the ministry is competent to determine such an important area and these are amendments where we insist that such important matters be taken, and I will repeat once again for the sake of citizens, the general conditions of bus stations, the general conditions of inter-urban traffic, the keeping of records of the point of view for inter-urban transport, the regulation of the inter-mining remote, the implementation of the process of meeting the proposal for timetables with registered driving orders in inter-minor traffic, that such important things are not left to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, but to do so by the ministry. And finally what I wanted to ask the minister out of personal curiosity. So, where the reasons for the adoption of the laws of urgency are, the Law on Transport of Freight in Road Transport, you say, the reason for the urgent procedure is also the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia, namely the preparation of the negotiating group for transport, negotiating chapter 14, for the opening of Chapter 14 for the negotiations of the delegation of the Republic of Serbia and of the EU that are expected, given that the stage of an explanatory and bilateral meeting has been completed in connection with the adjustment of the rules of the Republic of Serbia with EU rules in the field of road transport. Do you know anything I don't know about opening negotiating chapters? The negotiating chapter 14 is not on the list of chapters that will be opened first, so I am curious in that sense whether so many chapters will be opened that Chapter 14 will be open soon, or whether this is simply an unfounded excuse for passing laws by emergency procedure, because you did not want to defend this law, for example. In September, when would it be appropriate to schedule the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33468	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Before I give her my word, MP, look at what it says in the Rules of Procedure about laws that comply with EU laws. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33469	Thank you. Thank you for your suggestions, your questions, and I'm going to answer a few, I think, important questions of yours, so there won't be any misunderstandings. As far as chapters 14 and 21 are concerned, we're worth it, we're both finished with explanatory and bilateral screenings. But, let's start with the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce has always done the alignment of driving orders, and that works now. She used to work even for international transport, but it was taken away from her a few years ago. Therefore, since they themselves are carriers and members, or their associations, Chamber of Commerce, they do so forever. So it's not now being introduced as something new by this law. In that sense, they register driving orders. Then, when you mentioned the fleet itself and when you mentioned the year 1993, it was taken from the Interbus agreement, which we should sign among other things. I agree with you and I'd always like it to be all the latest, but it's not our own projection to be in 1993. Then, a few more important things I wrote down here, and I think we should answer them. When you mention certified photocopies, whatever you're doing, you can't just give a photocopy of certain documents, especially when we're talking about the transport itself that's a sensitive and very important area. First of all, everything we do in the area of transport and when we pass laws is always the safety of the transport of passengers and cargo. In that sense, if a particular documentation is provided, it must nevertheless be certified. When you talk about licences, the conditions provided for by the License Act comply with EU directives. You mention the operating ability, and it's not known exactly what operational capacity means. But if we already have defined the conditions for issuing licences, which we took over and put into our law, I think that's quite enough, but through the amendments we can look at how you defined the operational capacity, so we'll see. As for the lease and translation contract in English, French or Russian, it is also on international contracts. In international transport they must exist. Therefore, it is simply a obligation of the CEMT resolution, because we could not talk about lease agreements unless they were translated into one of these three languages, either in one, or in another, or in a third. And another very important thing. You asked about representativeness. Therefore, the Ministry of Transport cannot determine representativeness, but it is done in accordance with the Labour Act. There is already a Transport Association "Serbia Transport", I think, which already has its own contract with the Ministry of Labour and we have not interfered here and we will not interfere, but they are the ones who determine the representativeness of such transport associations. If I forget anything, you'll remind me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33470	The word has the People's MP Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33471	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow ministry associates, fellow MPs, we are today discussing laws, in fact two new laws that complete the applicable regulations with their content. So far, road transport of passengers and transport in road transport has been regulated by the Law on transport in road transport, which regulated public transport, transport for its own freight needs, the very activities of the road transport organisation, etc., as well as the Law on international transport in road transport which regulated international public transport. In addition to all the gaps observed in the applicable laws and different interpretations of certain regulations, one reason for the adoption of the new two laws is the introduction of relevant secondary sources of communal law into our legislation. For the economy, this is an extremely important area, and therefore these laws should raise the quality of traffic services and strengthen the external dimension of the market, because road transport is the type of traffic that participates 80% in the total volume of freight carried and 74% in the total number of passengers transported. The proposed solutions will establish a higher degree of efficiency in the operation of all entities in this area and create new conditions for new market opportunities for our carriers. For economic operators, this law prescribes new conditions for the exercise of activity, which are business reputation, financial capacity, professional training of a person who will carry out traffic management tasks, then conditions for drivers, although part of it is regulated by the Road Safety Act, conditions relating to the headquarters of a company. This law also provides for new conditions for economic operators to carry out international transport. I think it is important to point out that one of the amendments to the current regulations is the possibility that entrepreneurs as economic operators can carry out all kinds of domestic and international transport. When we mention international transport, I would also like to refer to the CEMT permit, i.e. the distribution of annual contingents of foreign licences to domestic carriers holding an appropriate licence. The issue has led to a major public controversy to date, as Serbia has had the same quota for years, and the number of operators since 2001 has been practically tripled, entities dealing with this activity. The bill envisions the adoption of a new sublaw that would actually be passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which would regulate the area of distribution of these permits. It is envisaged to clearly regulate the criteria for access to the market and other measures to ensure that our carriers carrying out international transport plan for business work and development. This proposal speaks of the proposing's positive intention, in this case the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is to do everything to ensure a healthier economic environment. In addition to better business conditions of the businesses themselves, I think it is important to point out that the law strengthens and controls. The role of the inspection and the powers it will have will allow to curb the grey economy. That's what my colleagues were talking about. Of course, we'll also protect the economic operators that are doing their job safely. The second law is the Passenger Transport Act. This proposal also removes deficiencies and disturbances in the traffic market and recognises the position of operators operating in the public transport of passengers. This law prescribes new conditions for economic operators with regard to business reputation of financial training, professional training, etc. and certainly for entities carrying out international public transport. When it comes to international transport, newspapers in the law are economic offences in violation of provisions that were so far gone. And this activity, which is the transport of passengers, will be able to carry out entrepreneurs as economic operators by adopting this law. They will also be able to carry out all types of public transport, both domestic and international, with licenses, i.e. assurances of the capacity to carry out transport. Another important part of this law concerns the arrangement of the area of provision of cell services that has so far been major problems, there have been undefined responsibilities and different misunderstandings between owners, stations and carriers. In this proposal of the law, too, the powers of the Republic Inspector have been completed and completed, making it more effective, but this is certainly twice as important for the state itself, but also for the users of these services. When it comes to the proposal for a passenger transport law, I would refer to some solutions that directly protect and users of services by transport, or passengers. For example, the protection of taxi users. A taxi driver cannot be a person who has been punished for two years in prison for acts that have a negative impact on performance, which also takes into account the general safety of citizens, as taxi drivers come in contact with a large number of people daily. The law also provides for the provision of services to transport users on the route on which there is a need for transport. If a suspension occurs at a specific route, the Ministry will designate a temporary carrier, a new registration of the driving order in the next registration procedure. Also, from the point of view of security, travellers in international traffic can no longer be transported by buses that have been produced since 1 October 1993, which certainly increases the quality of transport services. Both laws that we are talking about today contain solutions that, as I said, will contribute to more efficient and quality work of operators, and thus improve the quality of road transport users' services. In any case, both bill proposals are of quality. After the adoption of a large number of sublegal acts, their application will certainly produce good results. Both laws require full engagement and the departments responsible for the affairs of traffic and the Chamber of Commerce, in terms of the adoption of these regulations, sublegal acts, whether rules or other sublegal acts in the coming period. One of the main indicators that the state is ready to meet both citizens and businesses is the fact that the Ministry has proposed two years to a final, in fact full entry into force of both laws, leaving an opportunity for all those involved in this work to align their work with these laws. All the proposed solutions will certainly raise business standards and affect Serbia's economic development. The Socialist Party of Serbia will support the two draft laws as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33472	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33473	It's very short. Instead of two years, we will propose that the law be applied after a year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33474	Thank you. We're moving on to the list. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33475	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as every time we have before us laws that deserve unequivocally the support of all of us in the hall, you know, it is very easy to begin exposure to the words concerning the invitation, the invitation to all the MPs, that I am confident, a very good understanding of the content of the law, today's debate, and the possibility of eventually giving an additional contribution to, through the intervention on amendments, that is, the debate on particulars, we will come to the text that I believe, we will all be more than satisfied. It is already in the form in which it is located, therefore, in which it has arrived at the National Assembly, it is such that, in a positive sense, it attracts attention, suggests, as we have been able to hear so far, more than good solutions. So, once again, and that will really be short, when it comes to laws that are ahead of us, therefore, of a law that treats the issue of freight transport, as well as of another that treats the issue of road transport passengers. The proposed measures contain more things to deserve our attention. I believe that respected colleagues have well analyzed the texts of the law, that the contents are clear, incontrovertible and understandable, so, above all, because of the public who is following this, I would point out in just a few sentences once more good details about one and the other solution, i.e. the proposed law. When it comes to the law dealing with passenger transport problems, therefore, once again, in addition to being an unequivocal goal of introducing good standards, conclusions from practice, but also recommendations, both binding ones and those that are not, but certainly contain good additional quality, and come from the EU direction. There are also serious measures, very rigorous, comprehensive measures, studio-prepared, aimed at curbing the gray economy. So, in this particular area, in the area of passenger transport, we have heard from colleagues from Chikiriz today, but above all from colleague Stojiljkovic, there are countless examples. Even the term “Wild West” is used when describing the situation in this area that was in place until recently. Therefore, the measures that should not only introduce order, introduce a system, mechanism, ensure that not only are set up but also really respect and follow the highest standards, but also the measures that need to encourage the development of services and make the end-user concerned, and certainly, when order is not and rules are not respected, the highest price where there is no possibility that the market can freely define its rules and that through the price-quality relationship it provides to the best end-user, namely that end-user, i.e. citizen, bear the highest price. The aim is certainly these proposed solutions to change the situation. There are adequate answers for that. Good solutions have been proposed, they have found their place in the law, among other things, by defining the necessary conditions for anyone who wants to deal with this activity. So, very precisely defined conditions, we will, I'm sure, talk about them through a day or two when we discuss here in particular, which concerns and requires that there be a proper professional reputation, but also a requirement relating to the existence of appropriate expertise, therefore, professionalism and in this regard. Furthermore, through meeting very rigorous technical requirements. All of this must also be satisfied so that someone can deal with this activity. Further, licenses are introduced. For them, frameworks for quality building are also defined when it comes to cellular services. So, not only directly in the sphere of transport, but also in the sphere of these other services which are also directly related to this problem in general. Also, strict conditions are introduced to curb all the reasons for the introduction of practices concerning unfair competition, which, for example, the local plan, to call it, refers to the occurrences of cooperatives. When it comes to transport related to an international plan, it is the so-called Trade in licenses. So both are offered more than quality solutions to these bill proposals. Also, the conclusion is, and this can be found in the accompanying materials, explain this legal solution, that competition will be encouraged as a result of its application, but in the right way. So, not by giving in to those rules, as we said, "The Wild West", but by encouraging competition in a fair, correct game in which there is order and in which rules are respected, therefore, in the only correct way. In addition, but not least, the possibility is also introduced that some entities that have not been able to meet the formal conditions compete for participation in this area, i.e. to provide this type of service. All of this can happen again, and we won't do it because I believe, once again, it's understandable and clear. It's a matter of cargo transport. So we also have measures to curb the grey economy, and here we have proposed solutions and good legal frameworks to introduce order, to introduce good practice, to introduce high European standards. Let us note further that these standards are being met to the greatest extent possible, that good grades have been received by our European negotiator. When you look at the accompanying material and so on. The table of consistency, you will notice that the only positions where this proposal has currently reached a partial, not complete, consistency are those that will also be translated into full compliance status in the very near future through simple sublaws. So, on that side, it's understandable, and it's good grades and a good result that's been noticed by our conversants, but you know I like to point out this European and integrated component everywhere when it comes to our laws. I further point out something about all of us, i.e. it falls within the sphere of what life means, and it addresses our region directly. Thanks to the proposed measures, a large number of so-called. small carriers operating within the framework of our region or what we would call the former common state will be properly taken care of if they allow today an inter-state agreement, allowing them to have a national license to work uninterrupted throughout the region. This is very important, perhaps sometimes it does not take too much attention when it is found in a series of other measures and those measures that treat something directly that we would call yesterday, criminal activity, or something that we would call an international framework beyond the region, but it is really important. I would remind you of the words we exchanged the other day, when we also talked about traffic here then it was about air traffic, how important this component of regional co-operation is for what makes everyday life, for what directly defines our mutual relations and our common perspective. Because once again I remind you, the fact is, in this part of Europe, we are the closest to each other, whatever we think, and only when we understand that we are closest to each other and that by working together we can do something, we will feel a shift only through this combined synergy, and a concerted performance. It's not for no reason, there's a lot of things that still connect us, and some bad past, it's still a heavy burden, for this level of understanding and this kind of joint performance. Then when we talked about air traffic, we noticed how important it was to establish new trust and new understanding on concepts of economy and economy, because there is no healthier and more logical basis for establishing understanding than that kind, first micro, and then common interest. Then, through the fact that Belgrade will reunite the region thanks to air traffic achievements. Today through the fact that we are introducing such legal frameworks that will directly enable people on the ground to co-operate but that economic, economic activities develop uninterruptedly, primarily within the region, and then, I'm sure, the desires of all of us, and beyond. So, once again, as our authorised representative, Col. Stoiljkovic, has already stated, the SNS supports these solutions. I join in these words on my part, and I call on my colleagues to give, say, enough space, one fair and correct approach, when it comes to such bill proposals, and not to insist on a grudge, just so we have room for discussion for a day or two. So, to approach the whole problem honestly. Why? Because on everything you've heard as a grudge so far, you've got in no more than three sentences of precise and final answers and comments, just now. So all that is mentioned as problematic, more than clear, therefore, is the question of representativeness if you look at Article 57 unequivocally refers to what is treated by the Labour Act. It's unequivocal, and that's what the 57th member himself says, there's no need for us to insist on it for a day or two. There says the representative associations of employers - carriers. It's clear what it's about. Especially not to waste time on something that should probably be an attempt at good humor, to make sure that wherever the term of headquarters is mentioned thinks about the geographical location of the headquarters of a particular company, of a company, of a company, or of a thought, if I understood the colleague who talked about it, of the seat to which the driver is sitting. I don't think there's any need to do it, it doesn't deserve a place, yet no problem that's such that once again we can be happy and proud of doing this kind of work so seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33476	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33477	Dear Minister, honored guests from the Government and the Ministry, the Honorable Chairman, dear fellow MPs, thank you to the chairman for removing this misunderstanding that we had about my discussion. As far as DS's position is concerned, as proposed by these two laws, we will probably support these proposals in the voting day from discussing these laws will depend on our position. At first, I want to commend all the services of the Ministry and all the professionals who have worked on this job, to the drafting of this law, because I think they have contributed to the fact that these two draft laws have a very good and clear form and that it seems to me, with the agreement of a large number of people who have worked on making this law, we can talk today about the quality shifts involved in solving these problems. What's the problem for us is that it's an unserious approach for the minister, first of all, to discuss this law. So MPs received proposals from these laws along with 12 other laws on Saturday, and today we need to talk about thousands of sides of the law that are very important and necessary for further functioning of this system. The minister spoke and explained the drafts of these laws for a minute and 25 seconds, and I think it's really a problem and it's controversial. If you have two hundred pages of one bill and if there are two hundred sides to the other bill, then this requires serious preparation of MPs, serious debate and serious approach. The approach has led to the fact that there are several dozen members of the ruling coalition in this room today who are even listening to the drafts of these laws. I think very few MPs have made any proposals and amendments to these laws, which is also bad. Two hundred five members of the ruling coalition represent Serbian citizens in most local administrations, and you probably know best what the problems of local administrations are and how important this area is. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Well, you have two MPs in the hall. It is important that today, despite the deadlines that we had that were very bad, we gave over 30 amendments to these laws. I think this road transport law is really good. I would like to refer the services to several proposals that we have made and can be good solutions in the analysis of our amendments. So, first of all, a member of the 6th Road Transport, which says in the 4th position that transport licences, which are non-transportable rights, other than in status changes, mergers and accessions of a domestic company, are that there is a need to add a part relating to inheritance rights. It was in the discussions that preceded the preparation of this law. I think that amendment should be well considered. Then, article 45, you said in paragraph 2, that the following text is said: the inspection facility. We have proposed for both this member and all the other members, instead of the term "object" to be the term "economic subject". I'm sorry we didn't have more time to change this term in all the members. You don't do objects like objects. You refer here to companies and business entities. I think it's a change that needs to be made. Just because the opposition MPs' proposals are very often neglected or put into another plan, I will try to say in these few minutes what is important and what is related to our amendments. As for the transport of passengers in Article 29 in the first position, we have suggested that this text is going, meaning – within 15 days of the day of the change, written through the notification of the Ministry. So the term “written by means of ” means. You were later in many members, which is also the case in article 30. You used the term “written by means of writing. ” We have also made amendments to change this and to use the term "written by". I think it's more right and it can use the quality of the text. Article 41 speaks in a second position, point 3, what is necessary to obtain a licence, etc., so it is said – owned, a bus station that meets the conditions etc., etc. We have suggested that after the word "ownership" be added to the term "or lease", because there are many examples where the state is the owner of bus stations, or local administration, and it is necessary to take advantage of this opportunity to rent. Whether he's contracted in some previous period or he'll just be agreed, that's irrelevant. The important thing is that there's this possibility of taking advantage of it. In the third and fourth points of view, Article 60 states that units of local self-government cannot change the purpose of the position. We have suggested that local administrations can change the purpose of the position, but with the agreement of the ministry, for various reasons – building infrastructures, roads, streets, residential buildings, changes in regulation plans, etc. Sometimes it is imposed as an obligation to change these plans, and if you explicitly put it in the law that it is not possible, then all the local administrations that regulate this area have a problem with how they do it. I think that this proposal that we put on Article 66, the first position, also coincides with colleagues who have suggested that this be considered – the jurisdiction of the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry. We are in the first position, when you say - the carrier delivers a proposal to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce for a driving order, etc., we have suggested that it be – and to the competent ministry. So, if in all the other members you are talking about the ministry being responsible for resolving certain issues, we believe that in this member of the ministry, too, it should receive information at the first moment about the plan, or the order of driving. Article 122 speaks of those legal entities which are no longer able to carry out transport having an obligation to notify the ministry at least 30 days before the intended termination of the contract. I think it's a short period. We suggested that it be 90 days. For what? It is precisely because there must be tender procedures, tendering, selection of bidders, etc. You, if you have such legal obligations and procedures for local administrations or other legal entities, ministries, etc. means, you have to give the opportunity and chance to sort out that interspace in some way. It's impossible to resolve these procedures in 30 days. What I want to especially praise is that you have a well-solved road traffic issue and I welcome it. What you've been doing together with associations, with interested businessmen, etc., that's good. What I also think is a certain and well-solved in Serbia is the inter-urban traffic. But what remains as a major problem is local traffic, local transportation and the status of a large number of people and companies who are in great uncertainty today. When the prime minister said in the first sentence that the state's profit from road traffic is 150m euros, that there is a grey 100m-euro zone, I think there is also an open problem and a dilemma to work on. The issue of how to solve dozens of problems, perhaps hundreds of problems for companies that work very badly today, is particularly important, is difficult to deal with, as a result of various problems from the past, which today do not have the safety and certainty to carry out their work. This part of the grey business and the grey economy should be dealt with in particular. In my opinion, an opportunity has been missed to pay particular attention to that part in this law. I think it takes particularly great support and help for local administrations to deal with this problem. Later, as an authorised representative, I will also talk about this subject that is related to the Užice, and in that case we can talk about other cities and municipalities, what all the problems were, what people come across, how to solve them, etc. But, dear minister, the issue of functioning in a gray zone in this area is something that can be solved. One of the proposals I had was to just help local administrations to explore tenders, how to behave in this case if they have local carriers, if they do not have local carriers, if they have inspections, if they have no inspections, how to provide transport quality, how to provide safety for both citizens and those dealing with the issue. Local administrations are wandering. You have tenders that are being debated, let's say you're looking for a carrier that's going to drive a mile away. This means that very soon citizens will get into trouble and that all lines that are marketable, according to various villages, according to various places, will no longer be included in the mandatory regular lines that are being carried out. Another model is to make contracts for a while, to look for quality, to respect regular lines, etc. Then you get into trouble that local carriers don't have a market, they don't profit from the work they do, so they introduce some bad buses, they change the order of driving themselves, they make problems, and all because they don't have that kind of support. So the model of how to call tenders for big cities, for smaller cities, for smaller places, must somehow be directed here. I welcome that you are in Articles 83, 84, 85, etc. It seems to me, to a large extent, that they have been working to solve the problem of special transport, of transport related to the transport of workers, of children to schools, of sports clubs, etc. There is the issue of parallel transport on the lines, which has been a major problem for all local administrations. With this proposal, I welcome it, I see there's been a lot of work, largely solving the issue. What needs to be done further is exactly how to bring in all government employees, how to raise the level of bargaining with carriers doing these services to local self-government, to address the problem of wild transport, gray economy, etc. But we'll talk about it later, when it's your turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33478	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33479	Thank you. The Law on the Transport of Freight entered the Assembly on July 17th, and the Law on the Transport of Travelers entered the Assembly on July 24th and that public debates have been conducted for both years. But if we're talking about 2015, there were talks with the minister and all the people who worked on the laws, both in January and February, and last year five times, and I don't think there's a bigger city that we haven't done it with. Among other things, and in order to inform the public, during the public debates, all the suggestions we received from the Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection were accepted, by the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, there was the International Transport and Logistics Association, "International Transport from Belgrade", that I did not read all the associations now, but we did indeed work, and related to the Law on Transport of Freight and the Law on Transport of Passengers, therefore, with all associations and we tried to make it completely public. About how long I've been talking or not, I think it's more important what I say than how long it takes. I sincerely hope I made it very clear that these laws should allow us to reduce the gray economy in transport, which you yourself have found to be large, especially in passenger transport. Let's just say, out of the nine thousand inspections that were done, 57% were illegal passenger transports, which is in favour of how much of the problem this gray economy is in the transport of passengers. You mentioned, among other things, permits and licenses and inheritance rights. There's no inheritance rights in licenses or licenses. They're intolerable. Through your amendments, we're going to look at this part of where you're talking about economic operators and the object itself. When you mentioned bus stations and leases, and we just because of the abuse, we removed that notion of lease, because it existed, there turned out to be a lot of problems and mutual disputes between the borrowers and the recipients of unsettled obligations, and eventually the passengers suffered. That is the reason why these laws should allow safety in the transport of passengers and safety in the transport of cargo. Also, the part where you mentioned article 122. Yeah, there's no public call, but there's no waiting. So through a sublegal act, or through a regulation, the ministry immediately determines who will run a certain line, so that the situation does not occur if, for reasons like this and for various reasons, a local self-government does not work. Also, this law, when you mentioned the gray economy and it wasn't done enough. It is this law that for the first time defines wild transport, for the first time defines and provides mechanisms and tools to prove this wild transport in a court of law. That's what's very important, because if we can't prove the gray economy and the wild transport, then we can't even solve the problems in the gray economy that we have. I'd stop here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33480	The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33481	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will try to be very brief and make my contribution to this discussion, as I must also go to the Education Committee. It is evident that today we have two laws that are our obligation, because we need to bring our legislation in line with EU rules, and we have decided on that path and it would be good to do it in a timely and quality manner. I hope that there will be complete agreement between the position and the opposition, because this is a common goal that we all aim for and I don't believe there will be any big considerations here. Normally, I believe that the opposition will be constructive and will try to make this law a better quality, not a minimum of the law with its proposals. I hope, on the other hand, that those who implement this law will also organize and prepare everything that needs to be done in the future to bear in mind that this law will become more effective, as it is said only if it is organised, implemented and implemented by people who are capable or professional in their affairs, because as our famous poet Duško Radovic said: "Many incompetent have come far. He's easily incompetent, they can do anything. The capable do what they know." Let us also once accept that they are capable of working and doing those jobs that they are professional for, and I hope there will be no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33482	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33483	First, I'd like to cheer up the minister. This is a mistake in the list of speakers that Mr. Pavicevic and I are against the law. We didn't. It's our fault not to accuse the administration, but we didn't get along well with the application, so we're going to vote for both laws and there's a chance for the vice president to be happy today that he's going to pick up the general sympathy for the text of the law, of course her associates, who worked hard on it. We've been asking a little questions about people who do this job all over Serbia. It's true there was a public debate. It's true there was a lot of communication, and that's very good. Of course, that did not prevent us from giving 19 amendments of which are 17 languages, you have to pay attention. So there are many, many mistakes that are inappropriate in Serbian, and that's all a good thing. Of course, when I praise you, I have to embarrass you a little bit, and that's what the opposition does. You are calling for compliance with EU rules. For these 15 reasons why the law is passed, even three times under points 1, 11 and 15 is a compliance with EU rules. This could have been placed as one point, so you put under 1st or 11th or 15th things in line with EU regulations. This does not diminish the value of the bill we will vote for, but it would be good if both the Serbian government and this parliament and your ministry were constantly in this effort and a good desire to comply with EU rules. If it were a daily occurrence, then what would not have happened would not have happened, I admit it has nothing to do with the agenda point, but it is what it has been in public for the last few weeks. The first thing is an unfortunate oak. I went to see it myself. I'm, of course, a projecting layman, but I've come a long way. In that place, it could have been prevented by bypassing that unfortunate oak, which I don't give any supernatural religious or other meaning. If something exists for 600 years or at least it's been said that there are 600 years, and that would be enough, it should have been an effort to fix it, no matter who designed it. If she designed the previous government, the reason more to be fixed and said – here we have done something better. There, a mile before the oak, the path path turns right goes straight to the oak, then half a mile after the oak returns to the left. It seems to me that it was going right on the other side of that stream that was there. I think it could've been solved. Blasphemy on the way of Bela Palanka – Piroth, it was absolutely possible to bypass. I talked to the designers and the people who perform the work, of course there was guilt, first of all, the Institute for the Protection of Monuments and the uncoordinated attitude of the branch and of Belgrade, but it could have been avoided. Finally, you said she was canned. She's not canned, she's buried. So there's footage of her being buried and no protection measures have been taken. They lied to you. It's not your jurisdiction to preserve historical monuments. Whoever told you it was canned, it's absolutely incorrect. I'll give you evidence, if you need it, no matter what the agenda is. The EU's position, the IMF and other world institutions is to merge Serbia's Corridors and the Ways of Serbia, and that's your position, but that's not happening. I'd like that to happen, too. I think the Serbian public deserves, including MPs in this home to hear what exactly is about 2,500 thousand hectares in the Tchaitin municipality of Zlatibor. If what the president of the municipality is saying is true, it's inadmissible, slightly said. I wish Serbia had fewer such affairs, and we had more clean accounts of anything, including that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33484	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33485	I'll start at once from this last one. I agree with you. It is absolutely unacceptable to be at risk of public interest and is therefore ordered to review all additional data within 24 hours. That's why it was in the cadastre itself, and let's see what happened with the privatisation in 2002 and 2012, because the current owner bought his shares on the Stock Exchange, as well as to see the administrative process carried out by the ministry, and whether there was a threat of public interest, not only for those 2,500 hectares, but also for some 2,000 hectares, as far as it stands, that it was in the PKK itself "Goldibor". As far as oak is concerned, let me be clear. So the oak, among other things, was, according to official findings, sick. On the other hand, every kind of before the design, no matter what you were there, was me, and there were those who were professional about it, and I don't think either of you, and I don't think that we're expert on all this design stuff, because in the meantime there was a tunnel built, that the pillars were built for certain bridges, that would cost us absolutely 40 million. If the oak had been healthy, we would have moved it, be sure, but the oak was not healthy, which is seen from there when it was cut. The basilica is canned. If you have any kind of evidence, please deliver. Those organs that didn't do it will be held accountable. The roads and the Corridors, what the Department of Traffic was supposed to do, we did, and now we're going to go to other institutions that need to do their part of the job. I thank you, if you will vote for these two laws that are the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33486	The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33487	Thank you. President-in-Office, respected minister with associates, distinguished colleagues, MPs and MPs, today we are discussing two draft laws, one on the transport of passengers in road transport, the other on the transport of freight in road traffic, and the main objective of both laws is to combat fully, to completely eradicate the grey economy, as has been mentioned so many times. The second goal is to bring our legislation in line with EU legislation. These are also the reasons why all new laws were going on, not to amend and supplement existing laws that cover the given area, because an assessment has been made that the challenges and problems that exist in practice, when road traffic is concerned, are such that they can be solved only with the help of completely new legal solutions. Some of the changes and additions have already been made, but I'm saying, they haven't proved to be the most adequate, so really the best solution is a whole new law that's been done. In particular, when it comes to the proposal for a road transport law, what in particular, when it comes to international transport, what I would particularly like to point out is that, in future, our country will no longer be unable to react when faced with the situation that the domestic carrier is unlawfully carrying out international transport operations on the territory of another country. So, when the country's resolute ministry sends a warrant to our ministry, our country to react, thanks to this law, our country will finally, as any serious, responsible state, be able to respond adequately. Of course, it is in our best interests, especially if it is taken into account that something that is set out as our strategic goal, as our greatest and best possible interest, is joining the EU, then of course it is our obligation to act accordingly, i.e. to act necessarily and to meet what we have to meet. Also, if, that is, when international transport is at issue, and when it comes to domestic traffic on the market, unfortunately, we are all witnesses of the devastation left by the grey economy and what devastating consequences it has on the grounds that many domestic companies that once were dominant carriers have ceased to work. The worst consequence of all this is that many people have lost their jobs. What exists as a burning problem, I would say, which we, the MPs, my colleagues from the Kings and I, and I'm sure it's the same situation and that nothing is better in other cities, it's a problem so-called, not so-called, but people who and how they work, it's a problem of line taxi drivers, who are not reported, so they're doing their jobs illegally, so one question has been asked so far – how do they get in the way? The answer to that question, and that is why I will also tell the most about how taxi drivers who regularly settle their obligations to the state, as well as citizens who have often complained, will practically explain to them that with the help of this bill, this problem will finally be resolved. When it comes to taxi transport, what I would like to point out is that this bill has very detailed and precise solutions to what you have to do in order for someone to deal with this activity. First of all, of course, the condition that must be met is that everyone is registered, i.e. declared, means that all orderly comply with their obligations to the State. What's very important is the future of these registered cab drivers, and I hope the others never will again, the state on its own can adequately protect it. In what way? In such a way that it will be very detailed, very applicable to a criminal policy that is quite harsh, it is also envisaged to protect a rather harsh criminal policy by this bill, in order of course to curb the grey economy and to ensure that those taxi drivers and those carriers who properly settle their obligations towards the state, and in order to simply do so, it is practically the only way to get in the way of a grey economy and to break one vicious circle of illegal business. Then, no less important for users of services, means citizens, and also for general security in traffic and security, it is that, people say, so to speak, that the taxi driver won't be able to be anyone anymore. The permission to deal with this activity will not be able to obtain more persons who have been convicted of prison sentences for more than two years, then, some of the things that have been around so far, existed somewhere, such as a taxi permit, then the approval of the municipal authority, or city authorities, neatly included a taximeter, of course an account that was neatly delivered to the service user. From now on, this law will make it a practice, which I think is really something good and really valuable. Also, taxi drivers will be banned from doing line transport, in favour of all the things I've been saying so far, they will be forbidden to stand in places that are intended as bus stops for inter-urban transport, so that they will finally end up, this so far, so to speak, hijacking passengers. In one word, in our traffic, this bill introduces one order, one discipline, where you know exactly who does what, and of course you'll all benefit from it. From state to citizen, most importantly, no one will be lost, everyone will benefit, they will finally know who is doing what. Then, once again when the service users are concerned, the citizens, I would like to mention that they will never, again, meet with all those unpleasant situations that we have all heard about, that they are driving in a broken car, just when it comes to a line taxi driver, that they are often driven by a person who is alcoholized or used by other means, that often the car is overcrowded, so that in the future the users of the service, our citizens, to whom we are the most obliged and responsible of course, for the money they give, will finally be able to get an adequate service. Of course, the passport as a control document will be required in the future to really regulate line transport in our country. At the very end of my presentation, what I would particularly like to emphasise and to point out is that this bill is working to the maximum extent possible to increase, strengthen and improve the mutual co-operation that exists between the competent ministry and between the local self-government unit, especially when regulatory policy is at stake, which is the most important of all because it is a prerequisite and a condition that all these legal solutions that I really think are very quality, that they are very good to fully live in practice. Since our forward ministry, I'm sure it's not missing, as we've managed to see so far, neither responsibilities nor enormous energy, nor great commitment at all, I don't doubt that it's going to be a case at all, it means that, thanks to co-operation with local self-government, it's going to be a little bit of a push-up if things aren't going to go well somewhere because we really need it to ensure that both of these legal solutions, that both proposals of the law will experience their full application in practice and, of course, that such bill proposals will always get the support of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33488	Thank you, Mrs. Alexic. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33489	The Honorable chairman, a respected minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are now on the agenda of two traffic laws and this road transport of cargo and passenger transport. What I have to say at the very beginning is that both of these laws have been done in a quality and systematic way. Why have I reached such a conclusion, and why have these laws been done in a quality and systematic way? The first reason for such a definition of these two laws certainly lies in the fact that a detailed analysis of the difficulties faced by the previous laws and obstacles encountered in the implementation of the law has been carried out. Of course, we all know that even the best law if it cannot be properly implemented in reality, it certainly did not justify the purpose of its existence. Another reason why I think this law is of exceptional quality is the fact that it is fully in line with the strategy for the development of rail, road, air, water, intermodal traffic, as well as with the action documents that are provided and where the activities that the state should take on the draft legislative framework in traffic work are envisaged. I would also like to stress that these two laws are both significant and from the aspect of the strategic objective of the Republic of Serbia, which is the way into the EU, i.e. from the aspect of the harmonisation of our legislation in the traffic segment, i.e. in the part of transport with EU legislation. Why is this significant? It is essential, above all, to allow an adequate legislative framework in the opening of Chapter 14. Someone here mentioned it was premature. It's not too early. The best and most effective laws are those laws that approach each other in a responsible manner and which are passed on time. It's certainly a feature of these two laws. The third very significant reason why these laws are more high-quality is that the adoption of this law and how entrepreneurs, i.e. companies and business entities dealing with the transport of goods and the transport of passengers, or their representative trade unions were involved, were included, because they can certainly make observations and suggestions in the best way to make a law of quality. The quality of this law also confirms transparency, and transparency is seen in the public debates held. I will now focus on the Freight Transport Act, which has also been done in one quality way, with the full participation of all relevant entities, of course, other than relevant state bodies. This law also complies with EU laws, and what I have to point out is Article 7. These are the conditions that a company, a business entity and an entrepreneur, which is now being introduced into this law for the first time, must meet in order to carry out this activity at all. Why is this article 7 unusually important? The first condition relating to Article 7 is the business reputation of the company, i.e. the company or entrepreneurs. The business reputation is in fact reflected in the fact that the management of transport cannot be dealt with by a responsible person who has been convicted, or who has been given the safeguard measure of economic crime, financial crime, the protection measure concerning the ban on traffic, which affects, of course, the safety and safety of the transport of goods and the transport of passengers. So, in that sense, it's very important. As far as financial capacity is concerned, this is also partly in line with EU legislation, and in fact it concerns the fact that the company has to at first, that is, all these conditions are foreseen so that entrepreneurs have to work all the time to meet all these conditions in order to successfully deal with their work. As far as financial capacity is concerned, of course, it relates to the amount of money and is different when it comes to the transport of cargo in internal road transport and freight transport in international road transport. What I also want to emphasise, and what is very important, is the professional training of a person who deals with governance. This professional training of a person and how important it is from the aspect of and a business society, and above all for the reasons that only a person who has certain knowledge, certain skills and who is constantly perfected, who, of course, owns the solution that is trained, and the solution is issued by the Ministry and forms a commission of at least three members, that only such a person can actually contribute adequately to the increase of the profits of a business entity, which is certainly the aim of every company and entrepreneurs. When it comes to the seat, which is also very important, why is it important that the entrepreneur has a permanent and stable seat registered in the Republic of Serbia? It is precisely because it has to keep financial documentation, accounting documentation, documentation relating to the working relationship of the persons involved, i.e. the driver and all other persons involved, in order to make such documentation available to the competent authority that controls the implementation of this law in that seat. Also, one of the conditions prescribed is the appropriate rolling stock and the corresponding number of drivers employed. What I also want to point out is that the license is issued for a 10-year period, with the possibility of verifying, of course, and this possibility of checking cannot be less than five years. The aim of sustainable development in the area of transport is certainly to increase the efficiency and opening of the external market, and the external market is to open the possibility of transit, opening imports and exports. What is a special quality of these laws, and what is a strategic definition of SNS, is the fight against the gray economy, the introduction of these 100m euros annually into legal flows, which is an increase in the efficiency of the work of all state authorities, of course and inspection services, as well as the implementation of European legislation in Serbia's legislation on the path of EU accession. These are all reasons why SNS will vote for the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33490	Thank you, Mrs. Vukoicic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Peranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33491	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, there are two laws before us that I really think are quality, which have passed a public debate. The bottom line, I'd say, these two laws are their application. Their application in the era in which Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are now, and what we want to do, and what contribution we all want to give together to our country, are these two laws. The Law on the transport of passengers in road transport is an excellent law, which determines the conditions and manner of public transport of passengers, then providing, or using cell services and issuing licences. What's the point? We had in the previous period of 15-20 years a complete ride in transport, from small carriers to taxi carriers illegal in the gray economy. As counterpart Ivana said, the van carriers were also illegal, unregistered. All of this led to what you said we had in the register minus 100m euros. It is these two laws, the Law on the Transport of Travelers and the Transport of Goods, that must contribute, that is, to bring them, and all of us to implement them as we are asked, that this money be found in the register of the Republic of Serbia. If we do that, we succeed. In addition, we know that the Republic of Serbia is a transit country that connects the East and the West and through our country many carriers pass through. I think what we're doing right now, building all the traffic between corridors and everyone else, will help us to take another better position in the coming period and to see the real application and the real effect of these laws. These laws bring about a healthy competition. In the city where I come from, in Šapec, I can say that there was one, and we heard here today, the company “7. July", which dealt with the transport of passengers and freight. Now that company doesn't exist, there's no brick brick. In parallel with what was destroyed, in the past 15 years or 20 years, there have been these black carriers dealing with the gray economy and together these two things have led to the fact that we do not have a quality bus station, of course, licenses, that we do not even need to talk about, there is no such company “7. July" employed by 1,000 workers. Now, of course, we have a problem with those workers who stayed, let's say, on the street. But these laws, I believe, will settle this, that the Freight Transport Act will also regulate everything he requires, that we will have one healthy competition and that the state of Serbia will no longer allow and will not be able to deal with transport as it pleases. We know that imports and exports are one serious branch and that through this kind of vision we can achieve serious and great benefits, as well. This freight transport law will also regulate all licenses issued by the Ministry of Control. So we won't have any more walking licenses from one company to another, and we've heard who can get them. So, no companies whose entrepreneurs have been convicted for more than two years, who are not business, who have no strategy and all that is negative for one firm. To conclude, about 100 million we will have more in the register of the Republic of Serbia, and that is the essence, we will contain the gray economy and, most importantly, what is most important to us and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because we have committed ourselves to this, that is to bring all of our laws into line with the laws of the European Union and that in such a way we really are one modern transit country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33492	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go, Mr. Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33493	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, it is a pleasure to have before you two well-wrought laws like this. I think that's the evaluation of all MPs. I particularly point out that since we unanimously supported the proposals of both laws on the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Telecommunications. These two laws first and foremost harmonize legislation in this area with European liquids, which is the most important, and what is very important, and what should be pointed out is that in that segment that is with us, let me say, in a much worse state than freight traffic, it's travel traffic, it brings some kind of vans and some rules, above all in behavior and business. What I would point out in the proposal for a law on the transport of freight in road transport is to comply with the legislation of the European Union, to move to quantified criteria for access to the professionalisation of road transport operators, the abolition of discrimination and administrative barriers that so far existed. What is very important is that this bill also implements the experience of countries in the region, I think first of all of those countries that were in the former Yugoslavia, which have taken a long way ahead of us in solving this problem, as well as the knowledge of international organisations, such as the International Transport Forum, Black Sea Co-operation and the like. Also, the aim of this law is to improve freight transport in road transport, to increase the efficiency of work, new market opportunities for domestic carriers, means, to employ our drivers and all those involved in this activity, to improve the quality of services, above all, the service user, as well as the quality of services to domestic carriers. In the draft law, the conclusions of public debates were also used, and those of the public debates which took place in 2011, as well as in 2014, as well as objections and suggestions from competent organisations and associations of carriers. I think that transporters in Serbia, freight transport carriers, are quite well-organised, both legal persons and entrepreneurs. The objectives are in line with the Strategy for the Development of Railway, Road, Water, Air and Intermodal Transport in the Republic of Serbia and the Action Plan for Realising it. The basis of the Strategy is defined by long-term objectives, membership in the European Union, as our national and strategic interest. I'll just say a few more words about the bill on the transport of passengers in road traffic. One of the good things that are proposed in this law is, above all, licensing and the gravity of this law is given to curbing the gray economy. We all know and we all see in our streets, bus stops, and how our fellow citizens are transported, the quality of which is carried. I believe that, apart from these good legal solutions, we all have to give support to this law, and here first of all I mean inspections, municipal inspections, the Ministry of the Interior, and finally the citizens themselves, so that tomorrow we really have a good and quality transport and so that no one thinks when they sit in some public means of transport that about the consequences and don't give God about any accidents. What's very good is that this law solves the problems of bus stations, or taxis, compensation. We have a situation that at this point, precisely because of various and high compensations, at these bus stations, some carriers avoid bus stops and we stay at some wild bus stops. In this way, we will also address the problem of international transport in passenger transport and what is very important and what was concerned by the previous law is that this law has maximum compliance with European norms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33494	Thank you, Mr. Bojanic. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, Mrs. Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33495	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, respected co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today I will talk about the proposal for a bill on the transport of road passengers. Namely, this law was already passed in 1995, however, with certain additions and amendments 2001, 2005, 2006 and 2011. These were mostly cosmetic changes. No one saw the essence when they changed this law, and the essence is to curb the gray economy. Unfortunately, in Serbia annually thanks to the grey economy, i.e. tax evasion, or non-registered carriers, who drive a line taxi, I specifically mean vehicles that earn every day and do not report taxes, the "Serbian economy" loses at an annual level of around 54m euros. It's a very large number. When we talk about road traffic, we're just losing a lot of money. That's about 100 million. So, about 150m euros a year, we lose on a wild ride. That's inadmissible. The objective of this law is to regulate the gray economy, it's the first postulate. The second is approaching the European Union. How? Namely, the Government has made a 2015 strategy with a projection for 2016 and 2017. The aim is just the EU's liquids, especially the legislative system. So the full assets of the legal system must be applied to Serbian legislation. It is the only way we can be curient and competitive on the European market. We, as a country located in the centre of the Balkans, when we talked about rail traffic, also by developing high-speed railways, can be the centre and fill the budget. That's also true of road traffic. We're lucky that exactly the Ministry and the government are ending Corridor 10, it's going to take a little while, but at least it won't last 20 years as it has been. It's about Corridor 11. There are paved roads, first row roads. It will be for a very short period of time, in no later than five years, that Serbia, with its surface, will have the largest network of roads, which is very good. In fact, we had this tragedy that we were in recession and we were fighting wars. Old Yugoslavia broke, the market narrowed down, large companies, large carriers lost their power, the mass was privatized, so that companies and carriers such as "Rocket" from Užica, then "Auto Transport" from Vrnjačka Banja, "Jugo Transport" from Jagodina, "Jugexpress" from Leskovec and many others went bankrupt, something is privatised, but it's not good. At this point, we have 9,100 buses of which 1,300 registered as natural persons. Part of it went to entrepreneurship, which means there's again a tendency for the gray economy, non-taxation. What needs to be contained first of all is this line of transport that suddenly broke up after our territory was narrowed down by the abolition of the new large carriers, unfortunately, but so, simply, the narrowed market, recession, poverty, so people get along, that's not good, because I said we're losing 154m euros a year. And secondly, that kind of transport is very insecure because it happens that people who transport are tired, secondly that those vans, and I said that the van means the number of seats is nine, eight, seven and six, they're old, the safety of passengers is compromised. This is not good, so this extraordinary law is passed to curb, first of all, the grey economy, then, to definitely follow European trends with the help of applying European standards and be competitive on the market. What is very important is that companies registered with UAPR to carry out the activity of the transport of passengers were illegally carrying on the transport of goods. This law will be abolished, because we will give great inspections to inspections that will monitor the work daily, and the Ministry will control it. No one who drives will be able to drive without permission or license to drive any kind of car, or van, or bus. As far as the bus was concerned, it was 9,140, too. There'll be an audited number. What is the point of this law is quality, it is a new category in Serbia thanks to quality and competitiveness. Those who ride will have the right to choose who they ride with. There's something else I'd like to mention, and there's been an apparent abuse of the dominant position of cell service providers. That's not good, because it's been a shychically happening that someone who is a cell service manager without any need to raise the price of cell service, hence statistics say that in 2009 to 2013, we lost about 14,000 passengers, which is a huge percentage when multiplied by the number needed for transport. In 2009, the number of passengers transported was 86,624 now 72,047. Amazingly, instead of having a larger number, we have a smaller number. It'll never happen again. I'm sure by applying this law this rather wild market will be arranged. The law brings about the strengthening of tax discipline, which means tax collection and the reduction of the grey economy under one, then the development of the market economy, the various competitive market economy, education of people, to know and how and how to behave, as well as the provision of free quality and service levels. The resolution, or resolutions given in the draft law, will directly affect the following entities, particularly domestic carriers. Then, foreign carriers responsible for transport, taxi drivers who are also in chaos and we arrange this, then business operators who acquire the activity of providing cell services, business operators that carry out transport for their own purposes. Road traffic is the most dominant in transporting goods and passengers. In fact, about 70% of the cargo is road traffic, 80% of the passengers. So we have to improve the travel structure, it's going to be done very quickly. It's Corridor 10, Corridor 11, I'm sure with this government and this Ministry this country will blossom very quickly, not only am I sure, but I was almost towards Dimitrovgrad and I saw how fast it's going to go. That's great, fascinating, I wish you good luck. I hope that we will stand in any segment on the road to this grey economy, that is what will fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the SNS will support these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33496	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33497	I thank Mr. Chairman, respected representatives of the government of Madam Ministers, the area of transport of road passengers is currently regulated by the Law on Road Traffic and the Law on International Transport and both have suffered numerous changes since the 1990s. They were last in 2010 and 2011. It is obvious that the time has come to regulate in this area of change, since there have been shortages, i.e. disturbances in the traffic market, both domestic and international carriers. It was necessary by new law to reduce the gray area in this area, to introduce new rules for all those who would be seriously involved in this work. Of course, it is necessary to protect the interests of passengers. It was also necessary to bring this area in line with EU rules, and a good part of the solution to this bill is as they have given in an explanation based on many EU regulations. The bill seems comprehensive, which shows the proposal's intention to try to reduce the gray zone in this area. The proposaler's intention to introduce order in this area and provisions establishing licences and conditions for the issue of a licence and a certificate of professional training, and so on. Serious powers are also given in respect of inspection and a number of criminal provisions have been proposed. In addition to the proponent's obvious intention to find the right solutions, currently possible, MP Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS and ZS have some objections to some of the solutions given in the law. Thus, one of the remarks refers to one of the conditions for obtaining a licence such as the financial capacity to meet a company or an entrepreneur. A certain amount of capital, i.e. a reserve depending on the number of buses they own, is foreseen. The need for the seriousness of a company or entrepreneurs with regard to the possession of capital is necessary, but it is not clear from the proposal for a law in which the fulfilment of this requirement for obtaining a licence is proved in practice. Our parliamentary group has proposed a solution through an amendment to this member of the law, and we think it is necessary for the minister to have a way of proving financial stability, i.e. the ability of those seeking a license. My remarks refer to the age of buses registered for international, extra-line and line traffic, i.e. transport. The solution given in the bill is not valid, simply, I do not seem to be following the trend of this law. The age of the bus that would perform these types of services cannot be 22 years. Considering that it is an international transport operation. Considering the routes of roads that are sometimes thousands of miles away. Taking care of passenger safety, properly provided service, the age of the bus should not be above 15 years. There are companies and entrepreneurs who should show their serious intentions regarding doing such a responsible job, getting buses not over 15 years old. The number of bus drivers as a condition for obtaining a licence should be greater than the number of buses. It is a guarantee for quality and safe transportation of passengers. This specifically refers to international line transport. Another one of the remarks is that in the event of the adoption of a solution by the ministry which rejects the application for a transport licence, if it is found that the applicant does not fulfil the conditions laid down in this law, there is no right to appeal. I think in this case, applicants are requesting a licence to allow it to launch a administrative dispute. It's one of our sightings of this member of the law. One of the key remarks on this bill is that the Chamber of Commerce, for example, prescribes the general conditions of operation of bus stations, prescribes general conditions of inter-urban transport, keeps records of bus stops for inter-urban transport, prescribes a remote for inter-urban transport, has jurisdiction regarding the alignment of the traffic schedules proposal. I think all these jobs should be done by the competent authority. Here, for example, in the case of the regulation of the conditions of inter-urban transport, it is a matter of public interest and cannot prescribe the terms of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia as an interesting association of carriers. I ask you, who protects the public interest? Who ensures that transport is carried out in accordance with the needs of citizens? For example, bus carriers are already carrying out transportation only when it suits them, i.e. when it's worth it. From many places after 19 hours, it is not possible to get public transport to bigger places. This law should protect public interest. Why does the legislator deny the instrument of influence on such a significant activity? I've set an example for you to give many responsibilities to the Chamber of Commerce illogically, they should be in the power of the Minister or the Ministry. I heard the answer you gave the deputy head of my parliamentary group, but I still insist that the Chamber of Commerce should not be involved in these matters. In addition to the remarks and amendments relating to important solutions in the bill's proposal, the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, submitted a number of amendments that would contribute to the quality of the text of the law, and I ask you to look at all our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33498	The word has a minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33499	Thank you, regarding the solution to issue the license, we have now consulted, you're absolutely right, of course we're going to put the possibility of starting a complaint. The second thing, when you mentioned the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, so the Ministry is that it certainly gives consent to the regulations, and in how by chance it happens that a line, that a row of driving is not respected, then that carrier will not be able to do it, but the system, criterion and criteria will again determine exactly how someone else will be appointed will be appointed. I wouldn't say it again, some things are identical, as your deputy MP group said. When you talk about financial ability, as proven, so it is known that the financial ability is proven, which by the financial reports, which have to be delivered, is understood, of course not to be blocked and thus, is one of the conditions for obtaining a licence, is not the only condition, but must be met. It's a very important thing I haven't answered before, it's the driver's number. It's put here, so the number of drivers that are minimal, but once they're on the road, they know exactly what conditions they have to meet, that they have to have a crew, etc. We have tried this Law to, above all, stick to the first principle, which is the safety of passengers and quality, so this transport, the quality of transport, primarily passengers in this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33500	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Mihajlovic, respected guests and guests from the ministry. Today we are discussing two very good bill proposals, I can say it freely, as a man who, here for a year and two months, as an opposition MP fights most of the things and policies that he takes, implements this government of the Republic of Serbia, and these are good bill proposals, respected gentlemen, both in a subtle sense, in terms of content, every honor to authors and authors and ministers who defends today and in a editorial sense. This was not a common case, respected gentlemen in this assembly of the National Assembly, it was more often a situation for us to have a large number of objections, both subjective and those concerning language, spelling, grammar of the Serbian language, etc. It's always a great pleasure, I mean to the MP when there's no such obstacle to seeing the importance and meaning of a law. We New Party MPs, honored gentlemen, despite all this, have submitted 19 amendments to these two draft laws, 13 amendments to the bill on the transport of passengers and six amendments to the carriage of cargo and we expect these amendments to be 100% accepted. Because, out of these 19 amendments, gentlemen, we have 17 of those who are related to alignment with spelling, grammar of Serbian language, and I can at least say we have barely found a chance for these corrections and since they really deserve to be accepted, please accept these amendments, regardless of our political differences. Mrs. Mihajlovic, last time we spoke here, which was last week, she didn't respect any of our amendments. My expectations are that now it will be a completely opposite situation. I have three questions for Minister Mihajlovic, of course also for the MPs from the SNS, who are participating in this debate today. The first question, Mrs. Mihajlovic, I have to go back to it, imagine one situation, and based on the content of this bill, they say that imagining the qualities of intelligent people. Let's imagine the situation that there is a direct transport of Belgrade – Nis, Mrs Mihajlovic, Bela Palanka – Pirot. You very fine, precisely define what a line transport is and you say, the public transport carried out on a particular line, with a certain frequency, where passengers are boarding and landing, at predetermined bus stops and bus stops, and imagine that there is this line transport to travel by bus, and Mrs Mihajlović, let's imagine what she thinks, what she thinks, and how one citizen of Serbia, citizen of the world, Mrs Mihajlović, when she passes by that road, next to Bela Palanka, I must remind you once again when she knows that this road has crossed over one great cultural value, over one terrible cultural good that is not preserved, Mrs Mihajlović, is not preserved and protected, and we are not allowed to remove and to have a dispute between two institutions, the Republic and Niška, as far as I understand this particular case, and the culture of which we now have a good culture. And we miss the cultural goods, gentlemen, Mrs. Mihajlovic, and we must pay special attention to these problems, issues and values to treat ourselves. The second question, the bill's proposals, I mean these two draft laws represent how much I understood one major procedure, and could you suggest, today, in the principle of debate, on which the principles of cermataria are further arranged, especially by the permits, because according to these proposals of the law, we have a large number of sublegal acts, which we all know can be related to something that is good. Can we get a sign of some of the principles on which these acts will be based? The third thing, Mr. Zivkovic asked you here about one topic, and please, you said that a commission was formed within 24 hours to investigate the state of those two and a half thousand hectares of the country in Zlatibor, and the day after tomorrow is an amendment debate, Mrs. Mihajlović, please, immediately on the day after the first amendment, to tell us what the findings of the commission are to contribute to the protection of public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33502	Thank you, MP, if I may, since we won't discuss the finding.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33503	You interrupted me again, President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33504	No, I even added five seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33505	Dear MP, although it is not related to the laws we are discussing today, to repeat, Basilica was preserved, while Mr. Zivkovic spoke, it was once again verified and I officially requested and the memo and the profession determined, among other things, that the Basilica could be preserved and it was done. Like I said, if you have any other kind of evidence, I'd be happy to see that other kind of evidence to see and process. As far as part three is concerned, 2,200 acres, there will be information about it tomorrow, and I say, even though it's not about the laws. When we talk about a regulation on defining the issue of permits which, I think, is very important, this Ministry has already done so in a way in the criteria and system of issuing licences that were a serious problem, even because at the moment this Ministry was formed last year, it was almost no free permit, and then with one new regulation and change of criteria, and by setting up a system, we had the situation that the number of permits that were not used and which were often for a year, in various transport companies, and never used and returned as many as 62 thousand permits, e.g. So, and now it's done by clear and transparent criteria, so that by sublegal act, regulation, not rules, and not 3 percent, which you could give whatever you want, but 3 percent, if it's a natural disaster, if it's really something of state interest, in that sense there's a 3 percent permit issue, and the regulation will be defined and adopted by the Government on the distribution of the permits you asked for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33506	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33507	I thank you, President. I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality of Svrljig, the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis, where Nis is working "Nisexpress". What to say about these bill proposals, except that they are very good, that they are excellent, that it is necessary to solve road transport problems and this proposal for road transport laws unites two areas. Domestic and international transportation of passengers, which have been regulated by two laws so far, is being arranged by the Law on Transport in Road Traffic from 1995 and the International Transport Act in Road Traffic from 1998. The draft law resolves the shortcomings of those laws and removes disturbances in the traffic market, as it provides more precise solutions to correct the situation of operators carrying out the public transport activity of passengers. The occurrence of illegal public transport of passengers in domestic and international traffic is prevented. It introduces order on the traffic market and in the provision of cell services. It shall specify and complete the inspection powers of road traffic inspectors. A large number of solutions in this bill are based on compliance with EU rules. The regulations applicable to the EU have laid down provisions for the issuing of licences to the carrier for the performance of all types of public transport, international and domestic liner transport, international and domestic extra-line transport, except for the provision of taxis. Specific conditions for issuing a licence for transport: business reputation, financial capacity, professional training, rolling stock, real and stable seat, certification of professional training of a person, responsibility for driving, authority of the authority responsible for issuing a licence for carrying out a check, compliance with the conditions for issuing a licence, keeping a register of economic operators operating international transport for their own purposes. Conditions and methods of carrying out specific liner transport, embedding these provisions into the law, in addition to compliance with EU rules, contribute also to significantly greater discipline and security. It prevents the involvement of persons who have been punished, convicted of economic crime, violations and crimes in areas that are affected by passenger safety. It is important that they be business operators that are stable, as regards finance and as regards personnel training, registered office of the firm with full documentation, so that business control can be carried out. It is important that there is a criterion for hiring a person on the driver's business, because their human skills and quality depend on the lives of passengers carrying, and the safety of other traffic participants depends. In order to combat the grey economy and carry out illegal transport by non-authorised entities, the powers of inspection, the Republic, the province, the city, or municipal to exclude the traffic of a passenger vehicle, or a bus carrying out illegal transport, are prescribed. The conditions that economic operators have to meet are also prescribed in order to be able to carry out the work of providing cell services. The positive news is that it is also prescribed that the government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Transport, prescribes a way to determine the highest price of cell service, thus preventing cell service providers from abuse of a monopoly position in a particular territory. The bill sets out the powers of local self-government units to determine the position of liner transport and prevents abuses that have so far, with the removal of views, changed the order of driving in inter-urban traffic. This proposal prohibits transport operators from trading in order to register driving order in their own name and then to include another carrier under contract, and then problems and avoidance of prescribed driving orders and problems in the complaint, as there is no telling who is operating on a specific line and who is responsible. These two laws are very important for the transport system and for passengers and goods on all road traffic. We've heard that more than 80% of road traffic passengers and 74% of goods are driving. What else can I say as a representative of the United Peasant Party that has been elected from the SNS list, we need to pay attention to this law and that small, poor municipalities, which have been destroyed, where a large number of villages are separated from the centre itself, so there are a lot of problems with public transport. I hope that, together with this law, we will allow, as well as the amendments, that in such municipalities as the municipality from which I come, easier public transport can be made possible, and here in law we have the possibility that if that contractor in that municipality does not do his job, the Ministry of Transport will be able to introduce another carrier. I will once again confirm that I will vote in favour of this traffic law proposal, as a representative of the United Peasants' Party. This is very important because everyone who wants to travel by road traffic can reach Svrjig on July 31st, August 1st and 2nd, to be with us at the "Belmužijada". I welcome once again the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Zorani. I will vote in favour of this bill as a representative of the United Peasants' Party, as well as any laws proposed by the governments headed by Prime Minister Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33508	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33509	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing, this is the fourth hour, on two laws -- a bill on the transport of passengers in road traffic and a proposal for a law on the transport of freight in road transport. Those are the two laws of 200 pages we got, I have to repeat, Madam Minister, on Saturday. I got it at eight o'clock. We had just over 24 hours, over a thousand pages of material, arguments, laws, so we could all read, which I believe everyone in the congregation has done neatly. Today we are talking about laws that are very important. As Mrs. Mihajlovic said in a brief address, but concisely, that these are the first adjustments, and then the laws that need to be made, what I understood from your discussion, and the discussions of most fellow Members of the assembly, are something that should introduce order into the gray economy, something that needs additional resources to give to the republican budget and something that should be on the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Especially if we are referring to the provisions of the laws which clearly specify obtaining permits, licences and everything that has been said today. I will try not to repeat what my fellow MPs have said, opposition MPs, but also MPs, so I will give only a few suggestions for what I think is very important. The minister said the inspection had done more than 9,000 controls over the past period, that more than 57% were controlled without work permits, without these approvals, which means they were working on black and that it was a huge damage to the budget. It's a good thing it's been corrected, but I think it's essential that those who worked on black, who are now introduced, I suppose, in normal flows, will have to meet the conditions to be able to deal with public transport, that is, passenger safety is a priority in addition to budgeting. There were 30, 100 million figures here, I don't know how many, short of the euro in the budget. I don't know how we could figure that out. If they found out it was a hundred million, they probably raised the income side of the budget. It's a finance business, not you in your ministry, Mrs. Mihajlovic. What intrigued me and what I think you should accept and amend in this law is the age of a vehicle in registration of a business entity that cannot be more than 23 years old. I'd remind you and your associates, with a 20-year-old vehicle going into the category of old timers, it's becoming something that's a rarity and it gets at a price. We're talking about public transport. I know the EU can prescribe that people are 23 years and 25 years old, but we are the ones who can prescribe it in our country to be much less. We've been acting as an amendment, because I think my colleagues will agree with me that passenger safety is above all a priority and that we need in public transport to limit the age of the vehicle in order to increase the possibility. increase passenger safety, at least when it comes to the quality of the vehicle, because passenger transport is not social, it is an economic category, and that is the activity of those who can deal with it, not those who want to deal with it. So if we watch the transport of passengers and put their safety above all else, then they should be as young as possible in public transport, whether it's urban, interurban or suburban traffic. What you should think about in a further period is that by regulation, let's say, in urban transport, there are, I don't know, buses that have so much and so much carbon dioxide emissions, that they have to be low-level, that they have to be this way and that they have access to people with disabilities, and that's not something they need to come across, it's supposed to have support. We prescribe conditions for what our fellow citizens use. So, you don't have to go down a hairline, as the people say, to the transporters, that with as little money you could do a job as responsible as you can, but that those who are capable of that game, normally in the game, can make money, but only those who are capable of that game can handle public transportation. About how we vote, I wouldn't say it now, depending on how you accept our amendments, at least for those to whom we give the accent. But I would like to correct my colleague to work "Lecom" and "Curdic" transport "Dudic" alongside "Nis Express. You know it's one of the important things in Serbia's media sky, because it's a tender that was five years old, worth six billion, the most expensive tender in the city, and that there's been some dust going up, but not to prejudge things, we'll wait for the investigative authorities to say what they have on it. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33510	Thank you. The minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33511	Far from everything you suggest is a conviction. Of course not, especially when we talk about age and safety. So when we talk about passenger safety, or technically correct vehicles, where passengers will be driving. So there are technical checks. If the technical examination fails, it may never be authorised to work further, as specified in the Internal Affairs Ministry Technical Review Regulation. The European Union, among other things, does not determine the age or age, where it was taken from the Interbus Agreement in 1993, which we put in place. Already with this year 1993, we will rule out 23% of the carriers, because they cannot meet this commitment in 1993. On the other hand, if we were to raise more, to be completely honest, we'd put our domestic carriers away more and make way for whatever this sounds like for foreign carriers right now. We want to make the vehicles that transport passengers here safe by having to pass the technical examination. If they don't pass, there's no permit and no passenger transport. Which doesn't mean that age can determine whether it's safe or not, but I'm telling you, right now with this age that we're going to put in 1993. 23% of the carriers will not be able to carry passengers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33512	The word has a letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33513	Thank you. My vote for and for the proposal for a law on freight transport and the bill on transporting passengers in road transport and that voice - not so much for good solutions, but because both of these laws are illustrations, evidence, paradigms that we are actually changing everything in our society and state because we are part of European integration. And it's rare that any law is so illustrating and so easily portrayed as those concerning road traffic from very simple facts, verifiable. In Serbia, road traffic is 75%, 80% of transport in the EU is not, on the contrary. So, in the EU road traffic does not represent what Serbia is and you want it to be, we want to have a bill that will regulate all such that it is agreed on at Member State level, where you have a completely different context than the member states have. These are European integrations, whatever you take. In this case, it is clear because most of us have seen cargo and passenger transport carried out. In developed EU countries, there is no such thing as what we see on our roadways, especially to mention horseback obstacles. It's on our roads. It's not about road traffic, of course, but I speak as an example. That is the key reason why I have voted every time for a law that needs to change the context in which we are. It's not good for 80% of our total transport and cargo to be road traffic. In order to be able to make decisions on how to develop traffic in general, rail, river and so on, we need to have a regulation that will clearly define what standards in road traffic are with a desire and hope to be reduced to what traffic is in EU countries. Individual solutions, which have been discussed here, I can only hope that, with all the sublegal acts, they will be within the deadline and completely unusual my insistence that the sublegal act based on the resolution on the legislative activity of the National Assembly of June 2013 enter together with the draft law. I insist on that and any objection that we don't know what a sublaw will look like, dear ladies and gentlemen, you don't even know what the law will look like. In this congregation, only one law came out of the congregation the way it entered, and it was not good. Every law that enters the congregation comes out changed. It's good for all of us to learn to respect the resolution and to get the sublegal act in now. It's good for the government. When someone who doesn't support the government tells you that, I say that because I support the changes that need to happen in the country so there will be sublegal acts. In that sense, I've heard, if I've heard correctly, that the two-year deadlines for the bill are reduced to a year and a half, unusually for me, leave two years. Leave two years, we won't make it. I'm very busy provoking these short deadlines, putting positive energy on all those who need to work, but the area to which these laws should be applied is so much so that my assessment is that in a year and a half we will only have full right for all those who say – so that you haven't left two years but you put in for a year and a half. But your choice and your decision. I hope the assessment was good. With the desire to apply these laws, I would like for the reasons why I will vote for both bill proposals, to remain between us as a topic for future dialogue what we are actually doing – to adopt laws, so that laws create reality for us, not vice versa. These are European integrations, difficult, difficult, demanding work, but the only possible and therefore my vote for the success of such a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33514	Thank you. To see who else remains on the list – Dragan Todorovic is not there, Aleksandar Martinovic will not speak. We're done with the list. Is anyone answering by article 96? Rules of Procedure? Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33515	Dear citizens of Serbia, a respected minister, respected fellow MPs, it is my wish that in these remaining tens of minutes I will try to convince both the Minister and her associates of the good intentions that we had when we proposed amendments, that these few topics concerning the amendment at least think carefully about them and perhaps adopt them, take as a serious thing which may be a matter of knowledge and experience and good intentions, all together at the same time, to improve the bill's proposals. I said that in the beginning I don't think it's good for the minister, after the arguments I made, to explain for a minute and 25 seconds such important and important laws, which concern not only the income and expenditure of this state and this ministry, but also the lives and fate of many people, many companies, many of those who in the previous years depended on the successful or unsuccessful work of some companies. Whether they are local, regional, state-owned, but thousands of people in the past several years depended on the fate and work of many businesses. So if the minister today explains the laws of a minute and 25 seconds, then we come to this atmosphere that one law that has 200 pages, about another law that has 200 sides, about which we have had time to discuss, that is, to get to know them for only a few dozen hours, means two days, if we have such an atmosphere, then we come to this fact that there is no dialogue, that it's trying to keep all the time what the opposition or amendment or proposals or discussions are saying in some way that doesn't matter and that you say that it doesn't matter. I know that part of my discussion will immediately enter this vicious circle of responsibility and guilt research, that you tell me then – yes, it was your fault for something that was before us, there was no law. Then I tell you -- no, it's the consequence of the '90s and so on. It's not a subject and it's not a goal. We really intend to make a full contribution to the topics we are talking about, to make something positive happen. First, as for the Law on the Transport of Freight in Road Traffic, I return to Article 6, to share with you once again some of my dilemmas and thoughts. So, Article 6 in its second and third positions says – the transport licence is intolerable except in the case of status changes, mergers and attachments of a domestic company. My question and what is about the amendment that we have made, is that after the words, "attacks" add the words "and inheritances in the first succession order". What does that mean? So my question to you is this. If he owns a particular company, i.e. A company that has, say, 100 trucks, retired and wants to prescribe 50 trucks to its son, and 50 trucks to their daughters, or 80 once a child, and 20 others to ask the question – do both children, after inheriting those trucks or immovable property, have the right to inherit both licenses, licenses and anything else that belongs to them, or do they not? That's the answer you need to give me. As far as passenger transport is concerned, I'll open three themes. I think he's a member of 41. The law, Your Honor, is very important. It concerns the proposal relating to point 3. Here, I'll try and read the article, and we'll talk about it. Therefore, a licence for the provision of cell services shall be issued with a five-year period of validity. A licence for the provision of cellular services shall be issued to a company, another legal person or entrepreneur if there is:1) a business reputation, 2) a seat on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, 3) owned by a bus station that meets the conditions laid down by this law and regulations adopted under this law. I'm going to try on the Uzice case to explain to you how important this amendment is where we suggest that, in addition to the term property, the term law be entered. For what? You all know that in Užica in the 1980s and earlier, but also in the 1990s, Raketa companies, which also engaged in the transport of passengers and goods, or cargo, were one of the best firms in the former Yugoslavia's territory to deal with these affairs. The sanctions came, the wars came, the problems came, and from companies that hired from 600 to 800 workers, the Rocket started to fail, they started cancelling, there was no work, etc. We came to a period when in the privatisation of 2001, 2002 and 2003, Rocket changed its owner. The owner who bought the stock has invested a lot of money. So, after a few years, when you were able to see the buses that were maimed, which are corrupt, which are insecure, buses in the city began to appear that met all the very high standards and conditions and we all thought that the solution to the problem was both the citizens and the employees of the Rocket at the pier. Due to problems in the functioning of some other firms, the owner who bought the Rocket eventually came into a situation to declare bankruptcy. One at a time, the company started to fail, and so the Rocket got into trouble. We lost transport somewhere in 2005/2006. There's been a culmination of these problems for years. Dear Minister, I point out that this problem is very important, and I also spoke about it in principle, that the ministry is involved and that it helps local administrations to elect carriers, in terms of tendering, in terms of protecting citizens in every sense, and also in the safety of transport quality, so that such things do not happen as they did in Uzic. So, at that point, about 500 people are out of work, and citizens are out of transportation. If you have no solution that either at local or regional level you have a carrier that solves problems, then they have problems primarily of citizens and you get into situations that you can't function. The city is making certain moves at the moment, tendering is being explored, but you do not have a quality offer to meet the needs. So, I think fellow MPs and positions and opposition understand what I'm talking about, because this situation is happening both in Kragujevac and in Šapec and in Valjevo and in Novi Pazar and in Vranje and in many other places. So, at that point, we can't discuss any tenders because you don't have anyone in the environment that can satisfy your needs. Not to mention what's going on in Požega, Bajna Basta, Chatini and other places where Rocket has previously functioned. There were circumstances that the companies "Gaga" and "Gaga" that emerged from the "Rocket", which took over a number of people, etc., began little by little to strengthen, began little by little to achieve their role, began to solve problems together with the local administration. Furthermore, it happened that the town of Uzice had succeeded precisely because we wanted to have a monopoly over the lines, platform and station. We are a certain part of the claim we had from the "Rocket" for construction land, etc. We put on one side, we invested some more money, and we bought a bus stop, that is, part of the bus station. The state owned the platform and the part of the bus station and we were able to call the tenders for that reason. Dear Minister, I think it's okay for you to walk me out, to hear what I'm talking about, because the topic is important and concerns thousands of people, it's not just about Užice and these problems, so it's your turn to hear me. So, from that moment on, various tendering models existed, and we were forced to place the property of the station, which we achieved in 2007, at the disposal of the people who carried out the transport. We tried and opened tenders for five years, with various models, and we sought security for both citizens and carriers, and in this case it was "Golden Rajzen". For years, the company has functioned, strengthened, been in the interest of both people and communities, countless transportation of disabled persons, pensioners, sports clubs, various associations, etc., needs have not been numbered. We've come to the point that this firm has been strengthening. I say, she had security, both she and the city. In time, some other winds are now coming, some other tenders are being explored, you're getting into a situation where local administrations wander, first have one concept, break off contracts or cancel out, without legal basis. Now it's a big problem in the town of Uzic that after the tender, the job got a firm from Vienna. If we continue what's important to me second and third, which I want to talk about, I don't know what kind of competitive documentation was, but we're coming into a situation, if you insist on being a licensed condition, and later on the offer says that the age of the bus will be 23 years, the question is whether the local administration can call a different tender and ask for buses that are, if necessary, people who have quality. In the amendment, we suggested that buses not be over 12 years old. If the company from Vienna comes to the market, and you insist that one bus means one employee, that means that 80 people will be out of work for the next month or two days. On the other hand, the existing carrier has a contract until February, and a new contract has been planned since October. On the side of a lot of other things, 80 people are out of a job. I purposely wanted to do that chronology. In the 1990s, 500-600 people were out of work, and then 300 and some people were in some other reforms, later, again, in uncertainty, employees were not employed, reported – not reported, etc., etc. Now we come to the fact that people will be fired again. If you don't respect our amendments, you only have a problem with Uzica right away. The owner of the station is the town of Užica, leased with the company "Golden Rajzen". How will a company that comes to Uzice eventually meet the conditions that it can use a bus station when someone else is the tenant? So, in this case, they don't meet the conditions. Not to mention that they don't meet the conditions that they don't even have a service, that they don't have any other conditions that are predicted by this law. If you continue to insist on a 23-year-old bus being an element in the offer, how do you think local administrations can ask for quality for their citizens for transport? We have just come to the fact that we have strengthened companies, and "Gaga" and "Gaga", that they can function, that they meet all the conditions and needs of citizens and now they are someone, and I see that they are individuals, with their own calculations, completely destroying that concept and causing dozens and hundreds of workers to be in suspense again and being jobless again. Once again, the citizens of Uzica will have 20-year-old buses on the streets and they'll be fine. My dilemma is further about the conduct of local administrations and what I think should be worth your attention, if you have such legal proposals, if you have local administrations that aren't frames and are not trained to solve these problems, the ministry must be involved. You must also hear representatives of the authorities and representatives of the companies that have worked, you must respect the obvious circumstances that are important to people, not only to pass laws and pretend that everything is fine, and in the field will be a disaster. If I have commended you for your criminal policy and I believe that these measures will contribute to the gray economy, or all those who have been in the gray area of business in this area so far, I am asking that these few things be the subject of your interest, and that in these few days, as far as possible, we avoid all these problems that are there. It's not just a story about whether there are 100m euros in the gray zone, so it's going to go into somebody's budget, whether the city's, whether it's republican. It's not just about whether there's going to be income for local administrations from renting or not, I don't know what. The basic issue is being raised here – several things essentially disrupt the functioning of the system and citizens, not only Užica but the whole of Serbia, again, I am undermining it, will quickly become a problem with the application of this law. So, if we continue to remain in the uncertainty about both buses and years of age, as well as the number of people who will be employed in these companies, and if we remain on whether or not it can be owned or leased on the premises, I say, and for Užice I am absolutely sure that in other Serbian cities there will be major problems. I have witnessed that because of this lack of respect for continuity on many jobs and on many of the projects in the city that we have worked on, some people who have their own special angles of vision, some of their visions, and they destroy what has been achieved. I invite you to consider on this case Užica, where, only in some personal and party interests now, brings the company from Vienna, how good it is and how much this model will endanger the operation of transport and systems and in other cities. Don't let the companies that have been successful, which in the last few years, I say again, out of politics, beyond all else, strengthen, which have been available to citizens, who have managed to overcome many problems, now throw them back under the carpet, throw them into some trouble and put the citizens, above all the cities, in trouble. First of all, they are interested in the quality of transport and the price. I have just opened the topic and question – if you would help local administrations to apply the system through certain amendments to the members of this law, if the local administration signs a transport contract with a particular company, that both public enterprises and institutions and health centres and schools, etc., play a binding role, to return to experience and models in the 1980s and 1990s, to conclude contracts on the transport of workers, children, etc. It happens to us that in the last 15 years we have paid out of the budget of local administrations, state institutions, for contracts on the transport of workers, and people travel parallelly with their cars, vans by transport, etc., money is paid by hand, and then you have a gray area of business. In the 1980s, if you have a local transport service contract with a company, it also means that schools and health institutions and everyone else must honor these contracts and involve their workers with transport contracts with these companies. If we have that, if we have the pensioner involved, if we have the economy involved, then we will eliminate the gray market. That's how problems are solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33516	It's been 20 minutes. Thank you. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33517	Thank you, President. I must finally say that it was indeed a pleasure to participate in this principle debate today, because it is not a very common case for both the opposition and the position to agree on such a serious law and I do not think it is because we are going to the European Union, it is certainly a reason, but I do not think that this is the only basis because these kinds of changes are going to happen, but because this law is very serious, because it is professionally prepared and because it will indeed bring rapid results, and of course everything else, this harmonisation with EU rules. I'm very sorry that in the end my town of Uzice was mentioned in which, unfortunately, there was a problem of this kind. I had a chance to talk to the ministry experts about this particular problem, who said there was a law like this in Užica at the time this wouldn't happen when Rocket failed and when such a traffic company that could still work well could not simply be given to someone else at their disposal or to rent, or to find another solution, but to go bankrupt. Of course, what happened later, I wouldn't talk about it right now, but I would definitely talk about it if I did if our local traffic companies had, in some sense, an advantage. I'm also sorry that in some sense an advantage. I am also sorry that our carriers of the local “Gaga” or “Gaga” did not win the tender, but simply the city had to follow public procurement rules somewhere and respect it. Of course, if there is any doubt that there is something irregular about it, there are competent institutions. I stand firm behind the fact that it always has to be done. What I would also like to say is that, in some way earlier, some heavy accusations were that these were someone's party interests, coming from the ruling party in Uzic City. My interest is not that. My interest would be that our transporters downstairs took those lines. That's the most honest thing I'm saying, and I guess for a while, maybe even in some new tender, that mistake will be corrected. In any case, this law, what can be said, is an indicator of one good expertise, one of the very working and valuable groups that did this, because it was done in the interests of all and in the interests of entrepreneurs, or carriers, and in the interests of the users of these transports and in the interests of the state, which has lost most to these illegal transports somewhere, so that what I am looking forward to is that this problem, or this area, is recognised somewhere as one living organism that is changing, which is simply these kinds of problems that my colleague mentioned, somewhere in these good laws may be solved at a daily level, by these sublaws and of course on the flexibility that he left this law. Anyway, once again, all the praises and I'm taking you up on a good debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33518	Ambassador, you've spent all the time you've had. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. You can't replicate to her, she spoke to the SNS and it has nothing to do with you. You see what you've been saying, and it never occurred to anyone to replicate. He has the right to his position, the position of the party he represents. No, I'd like to go with you. You said you were in a hurry, so you cheated on me this morning. So no one asks MPs for a word in Article 96. All I have left is to extend the work of the Assembly and after 1800 hours to pass the laws on the agenda of this session. After the break, we'll do another law. Dear Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 98(4). I hereby conclude the joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 10 and 11 of the agenda. In addition, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set a break that will take up to 15.00 hours, and then we continue to discuss the next package of laws, education is at stake. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I invited Dr Srdjan Verbic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, as well as his co-workers from the ministry to attend today's session. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on textbooks and the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Does Prime Minister Srdjan Verbic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33520	Dear Members of Parliament, the President-in-Office, I would first explain these two, conditionally speaking, short-laws. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Higher Education relating to the number of test deadlines, i.e. the number of SP points required for the transition to the next school year and to the insolvency status. What has been a matter for many years, should the Law on Higher Education deal with issues such as the number of deadlines tested or not, has been resolved so far, above all, in such a way as to let everyone know that the number of deadlines tested should not be large and that it would be good for all of us to have the number of test deadlines tested four. But at the end of last year, so in October last year, in several days of talks with students, after which the government reached a conclusion where the government's promises were also mentioned, that the number of deadlines under examination would be resolved so as not to be defined by the law itself anymore, but to leave to independent higher education institutions to decide. This is now in front of you on the agenda, such a proposal, so the proposal from the Ministry of Education, Science, Technological Development, or the Government of Serbia, is that the acts of independent higher education institutions define the number of test deadlines. Last year we talked about that 48 points and if it is less than what our realistic expectations are and what the Bologna Process means, it really is a large number of points and at most of our colleges, 48 points is disproportionately large, and since we allowed the next year to go from 48 points, we are left with inconsistencies if we now insist that it be 60. And finally, this determines the limit, that is, the final year when students can count on an graduate internship. The second law we propose is the law on amendments to the Law on the Fundamentals of Education and Education, which contains only one member and concerning the conditions for retirement of educational workers. As it stands now in the Law on the Fundamentals of the System, the conditions for retirement are stricter under this law than under the Labour Act and there is no need for this law to allow some of the rights that the Labour Law has already allowed, so that educational workers, according to this bill, will be given the opportunity to decide whether to retire when they meet one of the two conditions, that is 65 years of age and 40 years of employment, or when they meet both conditions. The fact is that employees in education who would be forced to leave immediately after meeting one of those two conditions would be denied by 0.34% of pensions for each month not meeting those other conditions. So we feel that this law should be brought into line with the Labour Act before 1 September, in order to enable educational workers to do what the Labour Act already allows them to do. The third law on the agenda today is a whole new law on textbooks. I, on behalf of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, can express great satisfaction that we have made a whole new law on textbooks that corrects a large number of shortcomings that we have seen through the experience of applying the previous law in the past few years. What I can especially be pleased with about the textbook law is the widest possible agreement of all the stakeholders in the changes that this new law makes. Such agreement, this level of consent, above all, is significant because it finally ensures that what is in the law that will really be applied in the simplest and most efficient way. I'd like to explain a little more in detail what the Bookbook Act brings us. The previous Law on textbooks and other teaching means was adopted in 2009 and there was clearly no more detailed analysis of the effects. What will the effects, above all, be the financial effects of this law? Now we know, after working on this law, how complicated and difficult such an assessment of the effects is. So we're perfectly clear why we happened to have several very large shortcomings in this law. Thus, the 2009 Law did not seem to solve the problem of the availability of a quality textbook. The availability of textbooks, i.e. inaccessibility of textbooks, is particularly reflected in the fact that high school students, and especially high school students do not have textbooks or have textbooks that have been approved long ago, 90s or even 1988s since our oldest textbook, which is still in use. The second target group, a very important category of students who do not have textbooks, are members of national minorities, of course, does not apply to all national minorities, but for some today we do not have textbooks and we are all witnessing that this is a very often asked question in this home - when will we have textbooks for all students, for all languages of national minorities used in school? The second major problem of this now valid textbook that we have sought to better change through the proposal of this new Law on textbooks is the problem of insufficient transparency in the preparation, approval and selection of textbooks, as well as possible corruption in this process. During the previous years, we had a large number of objections, both the Anti-Corruption Agency and the independent bodies that were involved in the analysis of the education system, where they very often pointed out that exactly the way the textbooks were approved and selected was caused by a large number of corrupt actions. The third important problem, and for us in making this law the challenge that needs to be solved, is the problem of insufficient protection of the family budget. To analyse these unfavourable effects, we do not need to have any detailed analysis, but enough to listen to what parents say before each school year face very high prices of textbook sets and their dissatisfaction, not because individual books are too expensive, but above all dissatisfaction that there are so many books that are not used in school. The proposal for this law wants to solve this particular problem, i.e. to create a much better textbook plan where all the titles for which the commission is responsible for assessing that they are not used in school or used in the right way would be virtually eliminated. What will also be solved by a new textbook plan, other than whether or not it is necessary, is also recommended by the volume of textbooks, because as you know, many textbooks are too large, not by the content they offer, but by how much this textbook is used. Many lessons are absolutely not opened in these textbooks, and we think that the task of the commission to work on the textbook's plan is to make the best estimate for each textbook of the recommended volume, which does not mean that anyone will be limited to that recommended volume. The textbook may also be more extensive than that, but the maximum price of textbooks is calculated in relation to the recommended volume, so that each publisher has the possibility, if he finds that bill, to make some textbooks more extensive, but that he can make up for it from other sources. We, of course, as promoters, have nothing against such an attitude and the kind of intention of the publisher. What is important to note is that this bill does not limit the number of publishers that we have repeatedly told in this home that it is too large. We had 79 licensed publishers, but just because 79 publishers can get a license, that suggests that this license isn't hard to get. This time we will not restrict participation in a public call only for publishers who are licensed to issue textbooks, it is sufficient only that they are registered for publishing work, but the law will affect fewer publishers, first of all, on the basis of what we expect from all those who appear on a public call to bear a much greater responsibility for issuing textbooks in the languages of national minorities, for low-cost textbooks, so where there is no great profit. The only way that publishers themselves are aware of all their obligations is to first check how much their textbook really tastes like teachers. Therefore, there is a restriction that textbooks chosen by less than 5% of teachers cannot be used in the course of the cycle. That doesn't mean we can have 20 publishers of the same textbook for the same grade of elementary school. This number is limited to six, so that in any case there can be no more than six editions, or six versions of textbooks for the same subject in the same class. This restriction allows, together with the selection of textbooks every four years, unlike previous practices to be chosen each year, to dramatically increase the opportunities for textbooks to inherit. It's one of the most important and most frequently mentioned arguments of parents. No one wants to buy new textbooks every year. A century of textbooks as books is much longer. We think it's been quite appropriate for four years. In four years, most of the students at school or in the family will inherit the textbook. What is still to be noted is the protection of the family budget in such a way that teachers will no longer be able to require additional teaching material. Therefore, those textbooks which are not approved by the Commission for the accreditation of textbooks can be used, but none of the teachers can ask parents to use such textbooks. On the contrary, such a request would be punishable under this bill. We have quite a wide range of stakeholders for this law. So it's definitely parents, it's publishers, it's teachers. Those who, unfortunately, have not been treated properly by any law so far, and I have to admit, they're not going to be this one either, they're students. So the students are in the process of selecting textbooks, not asking for their choice. We see this as the next big goal, the moment we're able to ask the students themselves to choose the textbook they're going to work on themselves, it's going to mean the next big qualitative leap. We are fully aware that at this point we cannot include students in this way, but that is why we have predicted the introduction of an electronic supplement, a digital supplement that is actually a free addition to what is already a textbook set and which should be the most dynamic, i.e. that part of the learning set that most often changes, which best adapts to the student and where finally students can say their opinions that very quickly, hopefully, someone will respect and create a new, better version of an electronic supplement that would eventually become the first digital textbook on our market. So we think that by introducing an electronic supplement in this way we open the door wide with electronic textbooks. I have to point out we're doing this all because of the students themselves, so the students can learn how to use the book, so the students can benefit most from this, and that's why the rest of us have to compromise. I just want to point out that compared to the previous law where the word "teacher" has been mentioned 12 times, this law mentions the word "teacher" 50 times. This does not have to be a criterion, but indeed this law is intended for students and we are very optimistic that the effects of this will be visible by the next school year when secondary vocational schools will receive manuals that they could not have so far and when a competition will be called for all missing textbooks, therefore, everything we see today that does not exist on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33521	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Anamaria Vicek.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33522	Thank you. President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to present in a few minutes the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians. First of all, I'd just like to take a quick look at two draft laws that are shorter now in this case. So these are the laws on amendments to the Law on Higher Education and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law of the Basic System of Education and Education, and in the rest of the time I will look more closely at the Law on textbooks. I would like to point out that the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will vote in the Day of Voting for the adoption of these laws. What is important is to look at it, perhaps a brief and insignificant amendment to the Law on Higher Education, we should be aware that it is still extremely important that it gives greater autonomy to higher education institutions in this case. However, as I have already mentioned several times every time it comes to a adopted law that seems to be good or that seems to be good, it will all prove in practice how this law is implemented. That's why I'd just like to point out that no matter how much autonomy the higher school institution will live with, how fair it will be to the students. In the opinion of some students, it might not be too burning to determine some of the - to -, meaning at least four test deadlines or at most so many and so many test deadlines. Just because there would be no abuse of that power by a higher school institution. Another draft law amending the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System is also one minor amendment, but also a significant change. Since in this case, there is now a alignment with the Labour Act and, as in most cases, when some laws are amended in most cases, it is an amendment in order to comply with some other law. I would like to point out here that we have participated in the whole procedure as regards the public debate on the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, and here we have expressed the position of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, not in relation to this point, with this member, but in relation to some far more critical members, namely a member who refers to the language of education and training of members of national minorities, and I sincerely hope that now that this law is a little bit left on the side, so that it will be a little done. I sincerely hope that our suggestions that we have written in this public debate will be delivered to the Ministry, that our suggestions will be respected and that similar to this period that we have been waiting for the law on textbooks, and this waiting has paid off, I sincerely hope that waiting for the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the founding of the system of education will also be very good for all of us. So our proposal, our suggestion, is that we do not forget to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees the right to education in the languages of national minorities, or to comply with other essential laws for national minorities, such as the Law on National Councils, national minorities and the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. Speaking of the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, I would now like to rely on the Law on textbooks, since the previous law, i.e. the current law, which was passed in 2009, was actually passed and voted in the same day as the current Law on National Minority Councils, which was in 2009. Since the Law on National Minorities Councils was not yet passed at the time, of course it could not have been brought into line with the two laws. I would now very much like to point out and point out that there was an extremely high openness by the Ministry when we were trying to give suggestions about this, or by agreeing with the National Minority Councils Act. In fact, we should bear in mind that, in 2014, when the constitutionality assessment was carried out in the procedure for determining non-constitution, the Constitutional Court looked at certain members of the National Minority Councils Act, and it was in fact Article 14, which spoke of the approval of textbooks, assessed it as constitutional. So, anyway, when it comes to any other law that has the authority to approve textbooks, we have to comply with this law, or Article 14. National Minority Councils Act. I'm about to take this part of the Bookbooks Act and look back at it later. I would also like to point out that for the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, it is extremely important that we follow and whether certain province institutions receive certain instructions in the Law on textbooks, which is the Regional Secretariat, or the Regional Institute, because they play an extremely large role in the approval of textbooks. Although the new Law on textbooks was primarily aimed at increasing the quality and availability of textbooks to all students, there are also very, very good newspapers that are extremely important for members of national minorities. In fact, the entire law also includes language and letter in which, for example, the press textbook, i.e. the national minority councils' instructions, are also indicated. I would also like to point out that we have held a conversation with the Ministry about our amendments that we have submitted just as far as the textbook's approval is concerned. Each time the law indicated that a positive opinion of the National Council was sought, our suggestion was to correct it in such a way as this and in the aforementioned Article 14. National Minority Councils Act. It means to correct the previous consent. If accepted by us, in that case this law will be fully in line with the National Minority Councils Act. I'd like to highlight some newspapers that appear in this bill. In fact, if we compare the Law on textbooks with the previous one, the current Law on textbooks may not show much difference in size. However, in detail, the details also show an extremely high quality difference in a positive way. We may have been a little scared by reading previous variations of the drafts, or the proposal for a textbook law, when we saw that the term “low-cost textbooks” was drawn, since we know that this group of low-skilled textbooks include textbooks used in secondary schools, especially in secondary schools, or textbooks used by students with a special need. The third group, which belongs here, are textbooks in the languages of national minorities. However, I must say, I must admit that despite the fact that this term "low-cost textbooks" may not appear in this bill, but essentially any provision relating to the three groups of these textbooks is absolutely fine and it is evident that these textbooks are also being taken into account. One of the interesting newspapers is that, in addition to a detailed description of what is a particular textbook, which is an addition, what are additional teaching aids, etc., an electronic supplement appears as a mandatory factor of the textbook set. I think it's extremely important here to point out that so far there has been an electronic supplement in some textbooks. However, this should be addressed and perhaps regulated by some rules that will describe the exact standards of textbooks, so that these electronic supplements are not just textbooks in PDF format, because then it makes no sense. Perhaps the school bag will be a little easier, but it will not create this electronic learning framework that is needed to enable the student to use the electronic supplement at home for learning purposes. What is also important is that there is a much more detailed description of what these textbooks are with customized content, i.e. format. It is extremely important that the public publisher, i.e. the Book publishing office, would be the one who will be instructed to, unless it is reported, so to speak, if it does not apply, publisher for the publishing of textbooks with customized formats, i.e. adapted content, or in languages of national minorities or for secondary professional schools, that practically public publishers will be ordered to do so, and the provisions of the law, which is also extremely important, and so far has not worked very well, and the financing and co-financing of the publishing of these textbooks will also be regulated. I would also like to point out that a list of textbooks, including all textbooks, or aids approved by the Ministry, is also an extremely important item. Now we've just heard from Mr. Minister who's different from the previous version, which means there's still going to be a slightly larger number, since in the previous draft there were three per textbook, and now there's going to be six. It's still a little bigger for schools to choose what suits them the most. However, there is now a suggestion in this catalogue and textbooks in the languages of national minorities, which is also our one suggestion, that there is no need for textbooks in the languages of national minorities to see how many percent of students use this textbook, because simply in the languages of national minorities and cannot be expected to have more than three textbooks per class, or per class. I would also like to point out that an extremely important item is the one that regulates the price of textbooks. Perhaps now there will be controversy about it, because this provision will not fit everyone, of course. What is important for our parliamentary group is that our proposal has been accepted and it is put into the draft law that the textbook that is the translation of textbooks from Serbian, i.e. the adapted form, whether it is a format or content, cannot be higher than the original that has been published and approved in Serbian, which is why it is extremely important and there is a member who determines that there should be no discrimination in the field of use of textbooks. I would only like to point out once again that we are extremely pleased with the Ministry's cooperation on accepting our suggestions. Of course, the SVM parliamentary group will vote for all three laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33523	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milena Bijanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33524	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, dear colleagues, here's one law, I'll say, which we all know. We have experience, simply because we've all passed a system of education, and we don't often get to talk about laws that, as I say, are formally close to us. I suppose this topic will really bring public attention. I must say, we had good communication on the boards of education. Today, in one truly, I would say, we exchanged some opinions with a correct and friendly dialogue, but we realized that this bill that is now in front of us, when I mention the Law on textbooks, I say immediately, has experienced significant revisions and that, of course, it gives much more hope that the problems will be less, that there will be more success. What we still think about is whether it should be one way or another, whether the solution is absolutely acceptable, I would be brave to leave both time and experience, hoping for the seriousness of, of course, your and the Ministry of Education that you are leading and the overall importance of education in this country. I hope that the application of this law will be adequately followed, and that the first time, when the problems are seen, they will prevent the quality of application of the good members of the law, that it will be changed too, because things are there to change and that they will really make progress. Otherwise, SDPS, I'm really taking this opportunity to say, it has its own programming documents on education. We adopted it back in 2006 and for us from SDPS education must indeed become, to say, the engine of the development of this society and education really must become a public good. In this regard, I stress, perhaps for a moment off topic, that we are also in favour of compulsory secondary education, so I hope that, as under the Constitution, basic education is mandatory and free, we will have the opportunity to upgrade our education system with such constitutional changes that we will successfully implement. When we talk in textbooks, what do you say at the beginning of the school year? What was the practice? Well, the textbooks were getting over the overpaid, they were making some lists, the bags were really too heavy, many of the textbooks weren't used, and, of course, these are all the details that require a certain analysis. What I've been saying somewhere to people who've been peering into my school since the beginning of September, I've been defending myself by saying -- not my students are customers, they don't come to school every day to buy something, but simply to learn something. As the dam we set for them, it was, of course, my assessment and teaching council and before this 2009 Law was passed, so here I am saying, and this today that we are going to adopt, it is that we have decided on a teaching council what to get past the textbooks and the basic training set, precisely so that we do not have a public hearing at school and that we do not have the dissatisfaction of parents, in order to protect their family budget and, of course, to prepare teachers a little more seriously for the start of the school year, in time to inform ourselves and plan what they need to do and what means to work, so to say, that they are being served and that in our case they really gave a good result. If you ask me if it was easy to resist all these pressures, of course it wasn't. By the way, I finished high school without any textbooks. That fits, Minister, in that information you gave us, not only today, but last time, that since 1988 we've had a big problem with high school textbooks. My secondary vocational education has passed by teaching dictates. I have to say, remembering that they were doing it very seriously because another way was not, but I don't think that, here, in 2015, and that all years now, such a practice should exist because it seems to me to be talking about our insufficiently responsible relationship to the overall state of society towards the economy, which is the alpha and omega of everything it does, to say, one society, and everything else comes as an excellent and necessary upgrade. In this textbook law, I would like to set aside three key moments that the law takes care of and wants to implement, which is primarily the availability of textbooks. I don't just think about elementary school students, I don't just mean high school students. We ignore often art school students, neglect children with special needs, neglect national minorities, of course, there is adult education. I am very pleased with these solutions that allow national minorities, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course, to exercise their constitutionally guaranteed rights in an accessible education in a quality way, so that we can end those problems that we have in this way and to allow for an active co-operation, good co-operation and overall prosperity. What I'm particularly interested in, and that's what I always say, it's a question of quality. I think this article is 15, which says that textbooks have to follow quality standards, of absolute importance because we can have all the great procedures and be absolutely without any worry about whether or not any possible forms of corruption will appear, but if we don't have good parameters, good standards that one textbook should follow and that must be in its contents, we will ultimately do nothing. To a large extent, the quality of the textbook depends, of course, on the authors themselves. The authors of the textbook are our colleagues. These are the people who work in practice, who wished their accumulated practice and to materialise in a certain way and who, as such, recommend to all of us as significant authorities in this business that we all deal with together. When we talk about corruption, of course, the painful theme of this society in general, I said today on the assembly board, this country has laws, this country has mechanisms. Where we're missing, let's build it up, but just so it's not always a noose around our neck and it's not some kind of self that keeps us from thinking more rationally and acting more successful than that snake that can bite us, and after all, we decide whether or not we want to. It is true that the law mentions that students choose textbooks, and you said so yourself, and we are witnesses that textbooks do not choose at all. When will this moment come? Probably one day, but I don't think, after all, he'll be here soon. I just regret that the student's opinion is not much more respected. We ask the kids, but it's just that their opinion doesn't have enough legitimacy and we don't give it enough weight when it takes something to finally be evaluated. The children will say – the bag is heavy, the bag costs a lot of books, and in the end, what is very important for both children and parents and what is the biggest concern, is the quality of education that we get with these heavy bags and fat bills that we have to pay for. As far as parents are concerned, they are, of course, financing. Parents are funding. You said today on the Education Committee that, realistically, the individual price of the textbook is not high. That's right. But I'd add somewhere that mostly the price of an individual textbook is at a private rate. We private classes have so much and the question is why we have so many private classes, why parents have to co-finance their children's achievements and expected results and success. I'd like this law to fix something in that sense, and I think there are members of the law that will significantly help us. As far as teachers are concerned, and that's the one, let me say basic triling in that chain of students, parents, teachers. Teachers are textbooks for work, it's a basic tool for work. Of course, their behavior differs significantly from a time when they didn't have to choose textbooks and when you had that one, and believe me, I felt it as if it were past me. So, this textbook, the right to tell you, wasn't very interested in me at all, because I didn't ask myself in any way. I knew no one would even ask me what I got in sixth grade, so I'm gonna see what I'm gonna do and how I'm gonna do. It has been a far better situation since 2002 when teachers could ask, when their professional competences could also be checked in this way. Let us not forget that the state has invested in the professional education of teachers in various ways. A lot of money has been invested, and it's really okay for teachers to make a significant assessment, but now I'm going to be critical of them, and it's very fine that when they determine what the training set is going to be, let's say, for teaching Serbian in the fifth grade or any other subject, I didn't mention anything in a peorative sense in the Serbian language, that they're using it. We really have a very serious problem here. We have teachers who dictate today. Why? Because they decided it was a good way to be peace in class, because children know that they're asked from these notes. So there's peace in class, no problem with discipline. The unhappy children then throw themselves at their notebooks, learn from notebooks, and are simply deprived of the experience of using textbooks. For the experience of manipulating a book, for the experience of searching for knowledge beyond what my teacher told me. That's very wrong. I see that one member of the law provides that schools and directors will be punished if the teacher does not use the textbook. Of course, it will not be easy for the directors to find out until the end, but with increased activities called instructional teaching work, the directors will be able, with a more frequent tour of the class, to have a more significant insight into whether these textbooks are used. Besides, if there's one, and there's a fine in monetary sight, I just think it's gonna be a warning. I don't want anyone to be punished by teachers, but I think it should be a warning, because that practice really isn't good. The cooperation of other institutions in the process of creating textbook plans, catalogue lists and everything about the Law on textbooks, and of course institutions are the National Educational Council, Institute for Promotion, Regional Secretariat for Education, Institute for Education of Secondary Professional Schools, or adult education, we really have a lot of places. What I expect somewhere is that this law will improve professional co-operation between these very important institutions of our education system. I'd go through a few members of the law. I'd like to thank you for your decision on what the basic training set is. So, what's a textbook, what's another teaching tool. This is where it's pointed out what it's all about. I'd say it's a good thing that these extracurriculars, didactic curricula, and didactic game resources, the manual and the curricula, went to this other side. They moved to a document called an annual work plan in primary schools and secondary schools. It's a good measure for teachers to think carefully about what they want to use. It's a good timing, because annual work plans are adopted by September 15th. It is a time after which other meetings, parent advice and parental meetings will be held, where parents will be able to get information about what children need to get, and what school will grow old on, which will not go on the burden of parents and will become part of an important place in every educational institution, which is a library. I'm afraid we haven't been very concerned about the library issue, that it hasn't invested enough in the library fund, and believe me, if you have a good space, equipped with adequate books, textbooks using teachers, help with various means of information technologies, it can be one knowledge base at school that will later be distributed by classrooms. Article 9 which provides that funding textbooks with funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget would be much happier if our government could commit itself to saying that the government would make a decision on funding without this could. However, I understand that this is now one environment that is largely real, I would say. So our economic opportunities are what they are. You commit to what you can't do, you'll do more damage, you'll lose trust. If you've committed yourself through one official document, it says that you have a plan, that you have an idea, that you have reasons to change something, that you want to help, and I don't want to doubt that this and any government in the future will put that commitment aside, but that they will work in the overall effort to make us a richer state and that in any way we can education in a much more serious way to help. When we're setting up a textbook plan, and first I'd like to add this to the government. I am pleased as much as they are committed to this decision to support the procurement of books by those who need it as social support, when it comes to primary education, in high school, I also commend the definition that such efforts are made both towards national minorities and children with special needs. It's just that we're all citizens of this country and we all have to say this word that I don't like to consume, the rights that the Constitution guarantees us. So I think there'll be a good opportunity to finally establish this National Educational Council that's going to do its job at full capacity, because I see there's a lot of room here and a lot of purpose. In Article 14(4), the number of pages recommended, I think that the solution of the previous law has been overcome when the decision was far more rigid. It's not good, it's not necessary, but to whoever makes it, who's on the reviewer's list and who's doing an analysis and making a recommendation for the press, or passing grades, it's going to be very well able, based on its expertise, to assess whether this number of pages is satisfactory. Of course, it's a good thing that all of us on the board have accepted that the textbook catalogue should enter a significantly smaller number than 15, and now it's five, but I think it's time to prepare the textbooks in case of a new plan, and it's written here can't be shorter than 60 days, I think that deadline is short. We've finally given the commission an expert opinion on these textbooks 90 days. I don't think so, they're going to be dealing with a number of insights, because here someone is preparing for themselves one or two or how many, but I just think that something needs to be changed in that sense and I've put in an amendment in that sense. Today on the Education Committee on Law 20, I said that the statement, of course, who goes on the reviewer list, is forming a list in the planned procedures that are right, but there is, to say not clear enough in which all relationships should not be those who evaluate textbooks with publishers. In the previous article, I think there was a better solution when there were taxful references that might arise, and I think that the Anti-Corruption Agency has suggested that this should be changed. I don't agree with the fact that the members of the reviewer list must have at least two years of work experience today I said here within two years, take the license exam...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33525	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33526	... Not enough, therefore. And I've put a lot of money into the amendments, and I'm going to have a chance to talk about...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33527	Mrs. Bicanin, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33528	... I can only say that the laws, we will support the laws, and through the amendment we will give our opinion on the law on higher education and the basics of education and education systems, but we are in principle in agreement with the proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33529	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the parliamentary group, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33530	Dear Mr. Becic, distinguished ministers Verbic, respected guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, messages from Prime Minister Vukic's exhibition on education and science, as well as the residual name of reforms in education and science, and I hope that they will courageously enter the root reforms of these areas that are vital to the development of modern and prosperous Serbia. I will only count here at the beginning, with reminders for the sake of asking that MPs in the last rows, please remind Mr. Becic, may I ask you to remind the MPs from whom I cannot hear myself...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33531	Behind you? I ask the MPs of the Democratic Party to listen to Mr Stojadinovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33532	... The reminders here will only quote the most important messages about education. This government will reform the education system. Our education will be first, knowledge is the foundation from which we start to build our common house, our new Serbia. There are also messages relating to primary and secondary education with which there is a law on textbooks that, today, is on the agenda. And it's interesting that most of these messages are very attached to this. Do you know that every third student in Serbia is functionally illiterate? Our children learn from books aged 20 and 20, in an era of technological innovation in which one information only takes 28 seconds to penetrate the world. Our children learn from out-of-date textbooks, curricula, and programs are such that they're buried with piles of unnecessary stuff. And, what's very important, schools should have more autonomy in their work, teachers too. I'm not saying this for any reason, because this autonomy of teachers is totally out of the question in this law, he's absolutely not autonomous in choosing a teaching tool. Now, nice exposés, extraordinary ideas, expectations big, but nothing reformable has happened so far and this textbook law should be the first reform law to be concluded in August 2014 from the pompous announcement of Minister Verbic who says – this law will shake up the monopoly of publishers, reduce the number of textbooks students carry to school, but also allow the final exam for eights to be less stressful. The law was held at a public debate thanks to an agreement with the Education Committee, and a public hearing was held in the Assembly, which was very successful in my opinion, there were very useful proposals, but it is characteristic that there were dimensionally opposed discussions on the one hand by the government, and MPs of the ruling coalition and on the other. That was indicative, but the law went into procedure, in the last week before the session when it was due to be considered. Pompously announced as revolutionary, many here are present at public service, on all state televisions, praising the law in private and suddenly something happened to the shortcut, the day before the debate began, the law was withdrawn. As you said, Mr. Verbic for lobbyists, including publishers. He also said the law was not withdrawn because it is bad, but to assess the effects of the proposed amendments and to ensure a uniform interpretation of the legal text after adoption. All this would have been simpler if the situation had not complicated the additional letter of Mr David McCallister, the European Parliament's rapporteur for Serbia, in which he criticised it, came directly to the chairman of the Education Committee, so it was published in the media in which he criticised the law. And, of course, people immediately connected it, which is quite common with EU pressure, it's hard to figure out what it is, which is why the law is withdrawn? Are those amendments? Whether the pressure of the publisher or the criticism of Mr. McAllister has yet been done is a great shame, not only the credibility of the ministry and the ministry, but especially the reform of an important segment of education, which are textbooks. Now after a certain time, we have a new version of the bill, I have no problem saying that this version is significantly better than the previous one, and that many proposals for discussion, criticisms from public debate, from a committee meeting embedded in this proposal, but I have an obligation to point out that this new version is mainly prepared in line with the comments of publishers, those that should have been broken by the law. However, I don't mind, on the contrary, their opinions should be taken into account. Unfortunately, the problem is that even though this version is significantly improved, although it brings major shifts with regard to the availability of textbooks, I would point out in all categories of students and social categories, meaning families where there is a difficult material situation, students with families of national minorities and students, students with special needs, there are also a number of problematic solutions that will not contribute to improving the quality of textbooks. After all, from the very beginning, the problem is the quality of the textbook. It is said in the light of the law that the law is passed for the reason that the previous one in 2009 failed to meet expectations. The liberalisation of publishing, we have 79 publishers, close to 2,000 books in only one area of education, did not result in an increase in quality, but there is no guarantee here that the introduction of new instruments, institutes, textbook lists and textbook catalogues will improve something. For example, there is nowhere in the law how the introduction of a list and catalogue, which is dramatically changed as compared to the previous version, will affect the improvement of quality. A great lack, it should also be pointed out, of this bill, that was also in the previous version, are large, too broad powers of the minister to settle questions that should be realized by law with its sublaws. The other day, an interview came out with our distinguished expert, as well as a world expert, I'm gonna wrap it That's where he gave an interesting sentence. What actually happened? He says the kid between the ministry and the publisher has been distracted from key aspects regarding the quality of the textbook, which is absolutely correct. It also points out that the objective of legal solutions is not to limit profits, but to force publishers to take part in a quality race by running for profit. I think this is absolutely true. Attention absolutely turned off from a crucial quality theme on some other topics. We see the textbook as a powerful tool, a tool in the process of learning and solving. As conceptual as well as technical, procedural, we have considered how much this textbook contributes to the quality of learning that this textbook should support, which is high quality, different textbook models, real support in the teaching process, continuous learning process, editorial, authorial teams, but also reviewers from commissions that work, partnership, book makers, means authors and editorial teams and those who evaluate books, transparency of procedures and foreseeable availability of free students to poor students. Unfortunately, a positive shift has been made only with regard to the transparency and availability of textbooks. The following comments on several important members will not be in order. Selection of textbooks - Article 33. There's a completely shifted autonomy, so the whole decision-making process is moved by teachers, teachers, because first it's the teaching professional council, the actives, the teaching council, and eventually the decision is made by the director, and it doesn't mean anything again if that decision doesn't fit that percentage, it was 15%, now it's 5%. So we don't have that autonomy, and there are different teachers, different preferences, styles, some of them classics, they like standard styles, and some of them are more modern understandings, new technologies, but they're both good, and they're different students. So that choice is very important and autonomy in the election. We advocate a solution that respects the professional choice of each teacher, of course, and students. The textbooks, we stress, can be quality in different ways. The problem is that this bill provides that only one copy for each school administration arrives and it is difficult then within a decent time to decide this choice, so it seems that it will remain only a formal right and that textbooks will continue to be chosen on the basis of sympathy for authors and publishers. So it's about choices. Catalogue of textbooks - Article 17. So there's a list and a catalog. Everything that goes through the commission is on the list, and in the catalog, it's just what's said. In the first proposal, it was 15% of the population at the level of the Republic. It was obviously taken by the Croatian model, where it was 10%, as much as we suggested in the discussion to be, to decrease from 15 to 10%, because 15% would dramatically reduce the number of publishers and the number of textbooks that would pass. It wasn't acceptable for the Ministry. Suddenly, it's reduced to 5% as much as the publishers asked. All right, that's adopted. But I don't know what it does. One more thing is a problem. There will be a dominant role played by large communities, large cities, large schools, and for small environments, especially rural villages, we have 500 villages where that teaching model is performed for four classes at the same time, it's problematic, so again we have, to put it conditionally, metropolision in this segment. So, again, we have a re-election of the professor's choice, a professional choice. Secondly, the principle of majority statement does not mean that textbooks are the best. We don't believe this prevents corrupt pressures on schools, of course, but we are concerned that this allows some different books to enter the textbook market, as well as new bold publishers. It remains unclear that if some textbook, which is on the list and does not enter the catalog, can be found on the list of additional funds. It was criticised, but it hasn't changed. It's a clear definition. If it's worth something in law enforcement, then that's the definition of textbooks. It hasn't given up on the idea every four years, which is too long. If this were to be shortened to one year, a more radical proposal from the publisher to open the competition would significantly reduce the pressure on the commission, on the reviewers, and we would have the opportunity to come up with innovative solutions, Don's textbooks. It was also one of the key remarks between us and the publishers. There are probably practical reasons against these solutions, but there are also practical reasons for this solution that we are proposing. We have a limited number of competent experts. If we use them now for the commission, for the list, etc., we'll see that there's a problem, a team before we have justifiable anxiety, because of corruption, a situation that many of the peers in this area have no right to deal with. So that's what grading is all about. We'll talk about it a little bit more during the discussion. That'll be all. Only in the end to say that the MP group Boris Tadic – Together for Serbia, Green Serbia and, of course, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of this proposal in case our efforts, which we have made and proposed 12 amendments, are assessed as good, that amendments that are essential in nature are adopted. Now let me put our opinions on the other two laws for a short time. First, the Higher Education Act. There is no dilemma in meeting students and universities, regardless of clearly showing that this shift is the focus of protests, the problem from Germany to the Student Square, Banovina in Nis, I don't know what it is called in Novi Sad. However, we absolutely support these demands and I think this should be done. The only objection that we believe is that a framework must exist, so we have made one amendment in this regard that there are four basic deadlines and that two more time limits can be installed, according to the specificities of the higher education institution and that the deadline for this is not three months, but 45 days, in order to enter in October with all the acts of the higher education institution, which is necessary. Unless our amendment is passed, to be clear, that this isn't some kind of blackmail, we're going to vote because of students and colleges, although even the students went down after the first euphoria, many colleges are against this decision, there are differences between social and natural sciences, some more deadlines, some less, but what to do. This last one, related to the retirement of educators, teachers and teachers, it's strange that in a situation where we adopt a law that legalizes in a way, there's a rationalization in education, we adopt a member, we delete a member that allows you to retire on one of the basics, so we favour people who are ahead of retirement, and that could very easily relax this process. So there wouldn't have been a thousand fired, but maybe 600-700. I don't understand how this coincidence that these two laws go parallel? We don't think this law should be passed, because the most logical thing is that people who are close to retirement, that's so-called. natural effusion, go and relax the situation. If it takes a thousand, or 900, as recently heard, to lose a job, much less pressure will be on both the ministry and schools, and in Serbia at all, if by natural outflows of 300 to 400 people who are to leave on one basis, 40 years of internship, or 65 years of life, with, of course, that condition, 15 years of internship. We will vote against this law. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that something useful could have been heard in this discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33533	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33534	Dear MPs, I think the theme of the ministry's relationship with private publishers deserves a word more, and that's what I didn't say in the opening statement. What we all need to be aware of is that the shift in the quality of the textbooks that we have compared to 2000 and which is evident, we owe above all to private publishers. The increase in competition in the textbook market has affected the wake-up of the state publisher, and then the releases of the state publisher are better. That part has never been disputed, that we have made a shift in the quality of textbooks in recent years. Perhaps that shift would be even greater if there was greater freedom in deciding what kind of textbook they would use. I hope that through this bill of law, we actually allow teachers to use their freedom a little bit more. Another thing to know when private publishers are concerned is that at this point they are fully aware of their roles and their responsibilities for publishing textbooks in minority languages and other low-level textbooks. The publishers themselves offered to draw out textbooks, low-cost textbooks, to be twice as large as was provided for in the previous law. So in this bill, all publishers stand out 2% of their turnover for these textbooks, which is twice as much as it was. Once again, I stress, which is very important – this proposal is a proposal from the publisher. The publishers know how important it is to ensure that the textbooks are available to these. They are aware of the fact that it would be more specific for them to issue all these textbooks themselves, so it's easier for that part of the publishing responsibility to be taken over by the textbooks, but we finally have something to budget for the next year when the low-level textbooks are at stake. Just to comment on a sentence that I think is more than positive – this law only achieves a shift in transparency and accessibility. If it's "only", we're more than happy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33535	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33536	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will brief on behalf of the SDA-PD Group to give an opinion on the draft law on textbooks. I would first start with the realisations and provisions in all the procedures provided for by this law, and with regard to the establishment of the textbook's plan and the establishment of a list of approved textbooks, catalogues, the approval of textbooks by the minister, the selection of textbooks by school, is absolutely in the greatest part of the role of the national minority council. And what has already been stated, in accordance with certain situations and in the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, and here, and here and there, indeterminateness, or should I say a conflict with the Law on National Councils of Minorities - whether an opinion is given or at the level of the proposal. Because in this law, the national councils of minorities are nevertheless too much of a proposal, and yet it is lower when only an opinion is sought, and hence, there is a practical problem. I must admit that we have already brought a lot of discrepancies with the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education System into line, because they had previously been quite harsh conflicts and indeterminateness. I think here, too, through the amendment, they can agree in any detail or any provision where such indetermination or such conflict arises. In practice, problems often arise that do not go with the desired dynamics to solve a very sharpened problem of providing textbooks in the teaching in minority languages. The minister mentioned it. In some minorities, these problems are milder, but there are minorities where this occurs in a very sharp form, probably because of legal uncertainty, due to the insufficient capacity of national councils of national minorities, especially with all the shortages and appropriate financial resources. You know, there's a problem and inadequate representation of minorities in the Ministry of Education and also in these other most important central authorities regarding the work of schools and textbooks, the teaching program. I'm referring to the Republic Educational Council and the Institute for the Promotion of Education. The Law on the Foundations of the Education System even predicted the original variant of 2010 or 2009, when adopted, it was well planned that there was a possibility that the Republic Educational Council would have permanent commissions dealing with the problem of national minorities. It is also foreseen for the Training Institute that there are appropriate units of organisation that would deal with these specificities, and that would also contribute to the problem of providing textbooks in the entire chain of law, which would be better quality if both the Institute and the Educational Council had adequate representation, of course, with far better organisation and greater capacity of national councils for national minorities to deal with this problem. So, as seen in the case of the National Council of the Albanian Minority, there have been some shifts, there have been concrete results since 2010, but the dynamics have been slow. There is much still to be done, as there is and when it comes to schools in Bosniak language. Now, I think it's very important for me here how to resolve the amendments in the current version of the law a problematic proposal for minorities, when it comes to four years. In the part where the ministry, according to the rule, publishes a public call for a textbook to be approved, and the four-year period follows then and in the area where a list of textbooks is to be made, as well as in the textbook catalogues, and then this goes even in the choice of textbooks, when a teacher's council is to determine the textbooks with which the school will work, a period of four years has been given again. What if there's no textbook? So, that deadline goes by, that break-in year when you do it and a certain minority or more of those minorities don't have any textbooks. Then what do you need? To wait four years. I think it's illogical. A more elastic solution must be made. In situations like this, it should be predicted that there should be that possibility every school year. It's one area in this regard. Then, Article 3 provides nicely for all four types of textbooks and four ways to get to the textbook for schools in minority language. It's especially important here with the textbooks. I don't know in Vojvodina if there's anything going on in that plan until now, but here's what I'm asking the Bosniaks. I know what it's like with Albanians. Nothing's been done yet. I mean, of course, in history, the subjects where they are studied, where they learn cultural heritage, tradition and so on. There are no programs in the area, and then there is no textbook. I don't know if it's possible to strengthen something, that in the next period of time, through this law, it's really starting to happen. It is perfectly well foreseen here that there are opportunities to get the original text of textbooks in the country where minorities live, if they have the ability to make new textbooks. But what's the situation right now? It's probably the most efficient solution, and that through the approval of textbooks issued in, it's been in the country of origin so far, and here I see that a term is being used - issued in a foreign country. However, mostly, only the procedures so far have been very long, bureaucratic procedures. Only a textbook from Albania, just three to four years ago, lasted a year. It was supposed to be translated first, so who knows what other procedures and a year went by at the time for the approval of the Bucharests, which at the time was a donation from the Ministry of Education of Albania. Now, there's important, in my opinion, if there were personnel within the Ministry, within the Republic Council of Education, within the Institute for the Advancement of Training that knows minority languages, then it would be far faster and more efficient. But the situation is what it is right now. Now we go to this variant to transfer responsibility for translation to publishers. And that's where I'm skeptical. So far we have had, even I know the problems that have arisen at the moment with the National Council of Albanians, that there is an allergy to translations, because so far there have been very bad translations, because unprofessional people have been engaged. There are people who engage in maltenes as if they were working on congregation materials or municipal materials. So far, such translators have translated textbooks. Then you know what happened. That's what kids were supposed to learn from. So, I don't think you should stay on this, at least knowing the practice so far. Regardless of what the minister says will increase funds when it comes to low-level textbooks, which is mostly a textbook in minority language, it would again be insufficient for me to leave all responsibility to the quality of translation to the publisher. It must have its role as the national council of minorities, as well as these other accompanying inevitable factors, and the teaching office to play a proper role, so that children don't keep their textbooks in school at the current level of quality, which we unfortunately had. So there's a lot to be done. I think this last version, which has now come to us, is far better. In general, the law is very high quality, but due to the very difficult practice so far when it comes to minority schools and the provision of minority school textbooks in minority languages, it is necessary to make additional efforts to make something more concrete that this very bad practice so far is finally starting to improve and that, in this plan of providing textbooks, the goal that is set, that all have equal conditions and equal chances for education, finally in the next period we try and achieve together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33537	Thank you. The word has been sent by the People's Parliament to Olena Papuga, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33538	Thank you, Vice President Becic. Dear Ministers, State Secretary Lužanin, State Secretary Shuvakov, fellow MPs, the new Law on textbooks has caused various controversy in our public and has been filling the newspaper for months, even years. The old law since 2009 has proved to be dysfunctional, has not followed the plans and programmes of school institutions, so simply our public has been waiting for this law. In particular, parents waited for this law, thinking that the new law would bring some newspaper about the fact that the student bags would not have 20 kilos. They thought about whether the new textbooks would be more expensive or cheaper than those predicted by the old law. Of course, the price of textbooks and what kind of textbooks will be does not foresee this Law on textbooks, but rather a simple plan and program in schools, but I can say that parents especially awaited this law. The most interested in the law proved to be publishers. Of course, because since 2009, the printing of textbooks, the publishing of textbooks has also been entrusted to private publishers, which was not the case until 2009, but only the Bureau for the publishing of textbooks. I would like to point out in particular that since 1993, while in Vojvodina there was the Institute for the Publishing of textbooks and covered the publishing of textbooks in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, at that time, while Vojvodina had full autonomy, the development of these textbooks, especially accompanying textbooks and teaching programs, was much better. It did not appear that the textbooks for national minorities have not been out for years and that some specific community, and mostly all national communities in recent years have been missing up to 50 textbooks. That's why I want that period by 1993, while I say there was an Bureau for publishing textbooks in the AP Vojvodina, to commend. The period after, perhaps not, and especially since 2009, under the new law, when public publishers have in some way fought over who will publish which textbooks. No one fought to issue low-level textbooks under the old law because, simply, everyone wants to commercialise their work, and the release of low-cost teaching textbooks in the languages of the national communities, for specialized schools, for schools for children with special needs nobody wanted to follow. I think this new law will, however, improve the publishing of these textbooks in the languages of the national communities. I see that the Ministry has worked hard on this and that this struggle of some MPs in all these years, which we have pointed out that low-level textbooks should not have that status, simply, I have the hope that this law will fix all this and that more national communities and these specialized schools will not have that problem that they will not have textbooks. In particular, I think you've made an effort to pay a certain percentage in common, let's say, the register about the publishing of these textbooks, that it's improved, and not, as it was last time, that public publishers, private publishers only paid one percent or didn't even pay off their annual earnings, so maybe it wasn't anything to issue textbooks, which, in my opinion, of course, is not an excuse. I am concerned about this funding of textbooks and beyond, Article 9 states that the Ministry can decide on funding or co-financing of the preparation or acquisition of textbooks. I'm worried about this word "can" because we know that, if anything can, maybe it doesn't, and that maybe the current minister has this obligation and, simply, understands what it is to finance low-cost textbooks, which can't be commercialized in some way by a private person, but I think that this in Article 9 in some way "can", should be corrected because it's a good will, it can or can't. What's good in this law is that some of the jobs about the approval of textbooks are entrusted to the AP Vojvodina because I think that the province has professional services, there are people who follow teaching in the languages of national minorities, also have experience about this double teaching where teaching is performed in two languages, in schools, etc. The only thing I might say is, we asked LSV to do so in the amendment, that the funds that are paid as a tax in submitting applications for the textbook, to be directly paid into the province's budget, because simply, as the province's authorities, I don't know, the Pedagogical Institute and the Regional Secretariat for Education, of which the funds will do it all. So, I would ask you to take another look at this amendment and direct the funds from that fee to the province budget immediately. I think it will be a big problem for the province, of which the resources of its professional service will be approved by those textbooks. In some Member States, in some ways this new Law on textbooks is not in line with the Law on National Councils, especially in some places, the National Council gives its opinion, gives its consent in a member. Under the Law on National Councils, there should be “consensuality ” everywhere, so that this“ thinking ” should simply be deleted and changed into “consent. ” I think that several MPs and MPs have made amendments to correct this because one day it will be a problem that the Law on textbooks is not in line with the Law on National Councils. As for public publishers and the publishing of textbooks, I think that too short is given to prepare textbooks in the languages of national communities, especially since private publishers have no experience in publishing textbooks in the languages of national communities. This has been done so so far by the Belgrade Book Department or the New Sad Book Department, which really has a professional service and, in all those years, perhaps in 30 and more years of work, has professional services for all languages, has translators, has lecturers who have always done good textbooks. Simply, this law stipulates that the textbooks of members of national communities, which, in my opinion, and well, if private publishers publish books in Serbian, should also be obliged to publish textbooks in the languages of national communities. But I think that this preparation of textbooks for them will be very complicated, especially since, as counterpart Riza Halimi pointed out, and national councils are starting this job in publishing textbooks, which allowed them the law, as well as the Constitution. They simply do not have national advice, in a way, professional staff, but it is up to them, to form some professional staff who will follow the publishing of textbooks, translate, etc., to be of service to private publishers. I think private publishers will have a problem with these textbook translations because the textbook takes a while to translate, and 120 pages can't be done in a month, then it takes some lecturer to treat it, edit it, etc. I think it's too short to approve and prepare textbooks in the languages of national communities. Another thing I might have to say about the Law on textbooks, the opinion on the textbook, maybe who gives the opinion, how, that might create some difficulties, but time will tell. I think this textbook law is one more step. I don't just think about textbooks in the languages of national communities because, apparently, I think it's a better variant than anyone we've ever seen, and those that have been withdrawn and who have been so far. Simply, as far as textbooks are concerned, not only in the languages of national communities, but also in the language of the majority people, in Serbian, I think a little attention in this law has been paid to the quality of textbooks. I also think that, simply, the education system has in some ways no longer had that quality that was 70s, 80s, and I'm not saying that textbooks are the ones that will increase the quality of teaching, but also textbooks contribute to making the quality and education in Serbia the best possible. I resent the fact that the law, in a way, has not done well what textbooks should be and what the quality of textbooks should be. The League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina will support this law, if you accept these amendments that I think are well-intentioned, will simply improve the law and give it greater quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33539	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33540	I thank the chairman. Mr. Minister, the SPO is one of the political parties that has had a lot of debates, positive discussions with previous ministers of education had about laws that are on the agenda today, and we also had two laws in the morning that regulate our areas in a good way. These are the Law on the transport of passengers and freight in road traffic which are largely anti-corruption. The law on textbooks is also largely anti-corruption, but it's not its basic purpose, so we'll take the lead. As far as the Law on Higher Education and leave high school institutions are concerned, it is something that we have discussed with all previous justice ministers. What was our argument? You know, with the beginning of every academic year, that students, as the number of points was reduced, and the number of deadlines tested, announced protests and held protests. Protests were held outside the Ministry of Education. It's perfectly normal, because it was the ministry that proposed a reduction in the number of test deadlines. I studied, I was a solid student. I had three exams, and I didn't have a problem in time for college. Professors say students who require more exam deadlines are generally worse students and that this is a way to bring down the number of test deadlines their failure to study. But what the market is, is that we need to make terms of the free market, when there are both private and state-owned higher education institutions, to leave it to students who will know in advance how many test deadlines they have, what the conditions are, so let them fight there with higher education institutions to increase the number of test deadlines if they are not satisfied or change the number of deadlines tested during the study. Here, while Mr. Zarko Obradovic was Minister of Education for two days we held a debate on this matter, and therefore we will support these changes as well as equalising the rights of teaching staff and outside school staff to retire under equal conditions. Now, about the textbook. Of course the textbooks aren't in charge of the education system. The school's main education system should be students, as far as higher education institutions are concerned, students. The very fact that you have mentioned the word of a student 50 times in this law, and that it is mentioned 12 times in the previous law, shows also technically and essentially that the student is slowly taking the most important and important place, and that he should be the head of the education system and everything in the education system should be subordinated to the student. You know that even in this conference, ever since you've been Minister of Education, I've been asking MP questions about textbooks, too much material, about the burden, the physical burden that students, especially, say, champions, students in primary schools have, because today, without the parent's escort, a champion can't go with a school bag and physically take her to school. You know that when parents buy backpacks for school, they first ask what is a backpack that has a good amplifier so that a child in development doesn't bend the spine, etc. Now, the very fact that the physical scope of textbooks is so great, it reflects later on both teaching plans and on a series of problems that follow education. For what? Well, I think that, as you have now listened to the voice of students, the voice of students and the voice of teaching staff, that's how you do in the future with all the other laws because we have a development and education strategy and you certainly won't be wrong. They know best what life's problems are. What do the teachers say? So, the scientific teacher's council, the scientific educational board, is giving a framework plan of work. The teaching staff is in a hurry after they follow the plan to work on too much material. The teaching staff is nervous about it, but the belief that the material is often too extensive. Students, instead of having treatment as their peers in developed countries, will not mention Norway that has the best education system, let's take some EU country where students, I'm talking mainly about basic education, more through the game and conversation with the teacher, acquire the basics of knowledge. Here it all comes down to this memory memory, as colloktiially called "bubbing". This produces a series of negative consequences for students in terms of avoiding school obligations, overloading students, overloading teachers. This also reflects on a number of health problems regarding the student. What's that about? So that's the key thing. Why do we now have a textbook hyperproduction? You didn't say it directly, but you said it through constraint, or through a recommendation of how much one textbook should have a page. Simply, there was hyper production, publishers and professional staff who applied in manuscripts to get, to get their handwriting through professional expertise and to become a textbook, they want to earn money every year. Of course, that science and education is something that is in constant development and that the textbook that is in an area seems in its own way ten or twenty years ago, and today it can't look like that, it won't look ten or fifteen years from now. But that doesn't mean I need to physically increase the number of pages to make a profit. I think it was a key thing, as many textbooks as possible, as many pages as possible, as much money as possible, and not who in a negative sense is reflected, above all on students and those who learn in the teaching process. That's why it's you, and that seems to me to be a key provision, which is why you recommended the number of pages. If he wants the publisher to print more, let him print, it won't be paid. I guarantee you that in over 99% of the cases you will have the recommended number of pages, because there will be no more profits. It seems to me the greatest quality of this law with that anti-corruption element and with the opening of an additional market. While the Serbian Bookshop had a monopoly on the printing of textbooks, I suppose there was no specific corruption because they had a monopoly, all the textbooks were printed in them, but there was absolutely a backdrop in quality and development. Now that the market is open and we have over 70 and some licensed publishers, it was expected to contribute to quality. Instead of quality which, of course, exists and quality should not all look black white, we mainly get hyperproduction. The fact that you've limited the maximum six editions to one textbook, that's really good. Then, as far as the family budget is concerned. You know, when the annual committees are over, the family budget is out anyway, the school year is coming, it's a stress for the family. For what? New textbooks come in and parents ask themselves most often – so why do they print new books every year? Here, the answer is, not to follow the development of education to that end, but to make as much money as possible in printing new textbooks. And the negative consequences of the development of the education system, according to the students, by teaching staff, that of the one who has the financial benefit of it was quite a hundredth plan. We've got 832 now. 912 pupils in primary and secondary schools. And what again is this number of publishers and the opening of the market, which led to it. That publishers race to print textbooks in elementary schools. Where the mandatory items are and so on. In secondary schools where they should print textbooks with professional subjects or national minorities where national minorities are represented in the educational system, publishers were not at all interested. It's a couple of excelling evidence again, and they're not interested in the education system at all, that they're only interested in money. If they were interested in the education system, they would, of course, report to high-school professionals, deal with national minorities as well, and what kind of relationship is, so all the participants in that education chain, here I can tell you that Serbs as a majority people in such a system feel as threatened, as well as national minorities. Now we come to people who are distracted by development and disabled. The state of Serbia, and we ourselves know the signatories of all conventions on the rights of disabled people, the rights of children disturbed in development, etc. There's not one convention we didn't sign. We are officially and declared a very human society, in practice we are not. Evidence that for children distracted by development and disabled persons there was not enough textbooks, or professional aids, or aids, is proof that we are not in this part, except for rhetorical and essential human society. And yet many societies like the most developed societies where we strive to be in the European Union which are extremely human societies and where there really are no these phenomena, there are often these prejudices that are not, to this extent, human societies. Secondly, the number of manuscripts to be submitted, here, let's say for elementary schools 452 manuscripts, for high school 112. So three-quarters less. This is proof of how interested publishers were in quality education. Secondly, the problems of possible corruption, publishers are in a variety of ways, and you mentioned some of them coming up to print textbooks, offering teachers and donations, seminars, school directors saying, we're going to invest something in infrastructure, buy you some of the teaching tools, buy some balls or something for the gym, etc., and then get an exclusive right to print textbooks. What's good is that you actually conducted a broad debate when you passed these laws, that all the interested participants could say their own, but not just say it, but it's all woven in this law. It seems to me that no relevant suggestion, and I was involved in a public debate was left out and here today and the representatives of the opposition have no fundamental objections to the text of the bill itself. About the family budget, I think I've said enough, and it's a good thing that someone who has two or three children like some other time will finally be able, at least in a four-year-old period, to have a child who's under the age of one or two days to inherit a book from his brother or sister, or someone close to him who's going to give him that book to learn from her. Of course the book isn't something that's daily newspapers, it's not for single use, it has one whole other value besides the family budget, I know it exists in many families, and that fetish, so the children all learned from one book. He's got some other symbolic stuff. As far as introducing a digital supplement is concerned, it is something that is a requirement for the technological development of society and that the Serbian Renewal Movement fully supports. Due to the fact that we in the overall education system besides students, teachers, parents, schools, all of the necessary technical elements that schools must have and publishers, we also have several very important professional institutions that are financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, primarily the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, the National Educational Council, the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults and the Ministry of Education as a roof ministry. The Institute for Promotion and Education and Education has its own organisational unit of the Center for the Development of textbooks and it deals with both development and advisory and other affairs. Obviously, the Council for the Promotion of Education and Education also played a significant role in the adoption of these laws and because of all these good characteristics of the law, because it will be good for students, by teachers, according to curricula and programs that will certainly be reduced, above all, but not lost to the quality of the material. I think that in addition to having a physical discharge, the students will have a mental discharge and that we will be able in some way to draw closer to the ideals we seek through this first step, which is that the children are happy to go to school, that teachers pay more attention to the students, and not to that constant rush to fulfill a comprehensive plan and programme. You mentioned it yourself, and it was in the body of one of my MPs' questions that many textbooks had titles that were not at all an integral part of the plan and program. These are headlines that are absolutely printed without any need. I'm just saying that the physical book would be bigger and someone would make money on it. Because no minister before you wanted to be caught wrestling with these problems, because he didn't want to stand up to publishing Libyans, not just publishing lobbys, but school lobbys and lobbys in other institutions, which you first dared to do. In this part, you deserve our support, but we will move on. We're going to do everything that's still going on, and we think that we need to improve in the education system, and that's the constant process. We will seek through discussions with you and through positive suggestions and through parliamentary questions to advance our education system to be at the level at which it should be. Functional illiteracy remains largely present with us. It is not only the result of the education system, but of a general environment and indifference of companies, as far as secondary education and higher education are concerned, to take on the professional training of students and students so that the moment they get a degree in secondary education or higher education, they can absolutely be productive and minor, the first working day to have one more significant effect. We still have a sad situation that finished high school students with high-school training, that when highly educated people come to work everyone looks at the system, you're learning something theoretical, but you're unusable until you go through a practical work in the company or company. That is why it will be one of the important tasks of your ministry in agreement with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and with all others who should take their part in functional training, both high school and students. It's only when we reach that level, when high school or college graduates are fully prepared to do a job they've been trained for and when teachers and teaching staff and parents and students feel that the school program is fully adapted to their needs, that we will then be satisfied with the education system, and until then we will constantly perfect it and reach it. Thank you, Minister, for coming with such a good proposal to the National Assembly. When you come with such suggestions, we'll back you up, when something else is different, we'll ask for it to improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33541	The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33542	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, we have today three proposals of one law and amendments and two laws that are already in force. So the New Serbia parliamentary group will primarily support the amendment and addition of the Law on Higher Education, and we believe this will contribute to the autonomy of the University. So the university will be able to function more easily and easier to negotiate with its students on the needs of the number of exam deadlines, because from college to college, these needs differ and we think that this will significantly relax this particular student population, which will now be able to move faster, easier, more efficiently and probably better in itself to solve this significant issue that they have been trying to solve with protests. As for the amendment of the Law on Fundamental Education, i.e. the harmonisation of that one member with the Labour Act, we also have no problem in supporting it, because we believe that this is actually something between these two laws, the Labour Act and the Law on Fundamental Education, was in collapsing, and now it is harmonised and brought, of course, to one constitutional right of all employees. As far as the Bookbooks Act is concerned, I'm going to talk about it a little bit more. It has already been said that the previous law was passed in 2009 and then I participated as an MP in its adoption and amended the law seems to be getting better in that part. I just have to go public with it, so, in 2009, the private publishing of textbooks in Serbia didn't begin. Private publishers existed earlier, the private textbook market existed before 2009 and then it was the first attempt to make this significant activity of public importance and regulation. Of course, we have one other approach today, an attempt to edit the area even better with a new approach, following recorded shortcomings in the publishing of textbooks and distributions, sales of textbooks. We expect that by adopting the law, it will be clearer, better and better-quality in Serbia's education. I've already said that publishing textbooks is a matter of public importance, because textbooks are no ordinary book. The textbook is a book that has a mission. The textbook is unfortunately, since it is part of compulsory school literature, the only book some read during life, even not fully read. He has great responsibility, because the textbook is a book that, apart from helping to adopt certain knowledge and skills, affects the formation of consciousness and the creation of a standard of society. It's the social responsibility of the textbook. Thus, this law too has a serious social responsibility and we experience it as such. There are extremely many quality moves in the law for the better, and we welcome them and support them. We've put on four amendments. I am particularly pleased that the amendment that I have submitted to Article 14 has fully coincided with what Mr. Minister said in his presentation, that is, the termological matter. You've just called on the recommended volume of textbooks and I think that's the right term, and in the legal solution, it's a little bit more extensively said with one pleonism, so I'm asking you to specify that. I suppose you'll have no problem adopting that amendment, because that's exactly what's right. What has been a problem in publishing textbooks for years. It's the problem of a poor society. I'm just saying that as someone who's spent many years in the education system on both sides. First as a student and a student, then as a professor. And all these good and bad books and textbook work can be interpreted from practice. So when we poored as a society and when private textbooks were allowed to be published, to be sold, there was that first mistake, the textbooks began to sell rebate, not quality. I think this law will fix it in a lot of ways. So, it can't, I've been saying that for years as an educator, and the textbook can't recommend rebate, but must recommend it quality. And it's the only natural law that needs to be made clean in publishing textbooks, and I welcome that. So, the highest quality must survive, if we already have a private edition of the textbook. I'm going to say something that's personal to me, as a long-time educator, so just my personal attitude that I can defend multiple times, but I'm not defending him here just to bring him out. I am someone who, working in education, was exclusively for that state, remains a monopolies in publishing textbooks and retains control of that resource, because textbooks are something that is not ordinary publishing, but something that is a top state interest. The textbook, as I said, forms awareness, forms the adoption of knowledge and their subsequent use of knowledge and skills. So we've been listening to a lot of discussions here, and I think there's been a little bit of confusion about what methods are and what are textbooks. This law should regulate the publishing of textbooks, and the methodical procedures and method of adopting knowledge are regulated by some other sublegal acts, as well as the standards and quality of textbooks themselves will be regulated in practice, as well as what are teaching units and the scope of teaching skills. So what has opened the problem in Serbia and, of course, imposed such a legal proposal is this new dictatorship of liberal capitalism and textbook markets. As a colleague said earlier, everyone wants to write textbooks for elementary school, and elementary school is not basic because it is not important, but because it is the foundation of society and it is the foundation of society. School-based textbooks are the most responsible for the knowledge that will later be owned and used in society. I did that only once when I asked a parliamentary question about textbooks with material errors and potentiated. There it happened, of course, that we had an extremely large number of offers of textbooks, an extremely disputable quality in the textbook market, an extremely large number of textbooks with material errors. So, the textbook is incomparable, the textbook must not have a material error, the textbook should not, especially in today's technological conditions, where authors, associates and all knowledge can be available to you on one click, to go to the market, and especially not to end up in the classroom and to have any discussion about what it conveys as knowledge. I am telling you this because I have put on an amendment and I ask you to take a serious look at it, and this is with Article 39, point 1), where you said, by changing the content of Article 1, this article is not considered to correct errors and failures in the text, and then we have names, names, numbers, spelling errors, outdated illustrations, etc. I have listed only outdated illustrations can be considered as what this member requires. All these other things are material mistakes. If you in the textbook, let's say, I'm setting an example now, you can see that someone gave the keybinding "doctor", Dr. with a dot, it's not a printing error, it's ignorance, the illiteracy of the textbook's author, which he carries on to the students. It's something that we have to strictly separate when it comes to textbooks and about requests for textbooks. Since it is a really serious profit when it comes to safe profit textbooks, we have the right and obligation as a society to place certain serious responsibilities in front of textbook publishers, and here I welcome the creation of this new filter through which each text of textbooks should go, or every textbook to pass, to be ruthlessly returned to the publisher or mercilessly rejected if it does not satisfy the smallest criterion that the textbook must have, because the textbook does not suffer free style. Freestyle is allowed in fiction, poetry. There you can ignore the interaction and make it your way of expression. In the textbook no, because the textbook has strict standards and the textbook is responsible for the most important and powerful resource of a society, and we as an impoverished society this resource now and how we must use and rely on it, which is knowledge. What the textbook is, apart from being a means of adopting knowledge and skills, the textbook is certainly one of the serious means of implementing reforms in education. Now we've come to that, I'll remind you, we've mentioned some countries that have, as they say, better education systems than we are, which is, which isn't, but it's actually just a paradigm of knowledge. What we have a problem with, I think the minister will fully agree, is that in the real reform of education, which is very slow and very difficult, because one big system, we need to change the paradigm of knowledge and to replace the reproductive knowledge that is present with us now with functional knowledge, that is, one part of reproductive knowledge will be necessary to remain, but to replace it with functional knowledge. So what we're talking about is that kids are learning through a game somewhere in some other countries, no, they're functional knowledge that's been implemented through the education system, and there's exactly how these functional knowledge from the third year and beyond, from kindergarten, through school, through all the education institutions' systems, are being implemented and adopted. So we're going to have to try to replace that dry memory with a logical conclusion through a serious knowledge reform. So, the paradigm of reproductive knowledge that we're changing functional knowledge, but I already said that's a system in which textbooks will play a significant role. In order for the textbooks to adapt to this, or to do so in the textbooks that seek and encourage this, it will also have to change the access to teaching staff, which can carry out this, their additional education, mentors, teaching workshops, etc. But these are already a series of steps that the ministry will assume to have in some foreseeable time in its work, a desire to implement and a way to implement. What we will certainly support as a parliamentary group in this law, or demand to change, and we support, is the number in the list of assessors, therefore, the number of years of work experience some colleagues have talked about. We put that amendment on. So we really think that two years of working experience to reach, regardless of training, is too small on the list of graders, because experience knowledge in this area is irreplaceable knowledge. You know, as someone who's held thousands of school classes, plowing with those who only know school lessons as students and as someone who speaks theoretically about them, I'll tell you what a fundamental difference it is, I'm very happy to quote it, it's like if you were a pastry craft, ending up learning the book of recipes by heart. That's the fundamental difference, when you have to have one experienced knowledge, and four years is about one cycle as much as one textbook lives, so we thought that five years of minimum working experience for a serious and objective grader that should be found on the textbook list is something that should be acceptable. That's those remarks, the basic remarks we had when we laid eyes on this law. Indeed experiencing knowledge in these new conditions as a serious commodity, we believe that Serbia has the opportunity to make even an export brand out of its knowledge. We have extremely good potentials. We have confirmed ourselves everywhere in the world, now in stagnation, precisely because of this paradigm of knowledge that has devalued this basic approach to knowledge in recent years, but I think we will also have the opportunity to record knowledge as one of our most significant state resources in adopting textbooks and their quality and standards. We therefore consider this law to be a great responsibility. The ministry has a great chance of making a serious, modern step in education reform and we will support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33543	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33544	Thank you. The law on textbooks as a bill, as a first, is a law that, if we imagine one square, four vertices in which those who will be directly apply the law. Of course, one point, one topic of this square is the Ministry, the Institute, the National Educational Council, other topics are publishers, private, whatever, third topics are educational workers and fourth parents and, of course, another 600,000 children in primary education and about 300,000 in secondary education with parents who are about a million, educators of 140 thousand, so between two million and 200 and 2.5 million people are the ones this textbook law applies to. When will it apply? In two years. This school year, textbooks are obtained under the existing law. The problem that we have together in the Assembly and the Government is that there is no National Educational Council, so there is no instance that can do its jobs that are in charge of the Law on textbooks and now. Why isn't he here? I don't want to talk about it. The responsibility is divided. The government can propose an emergency session, we can. No one will. No National Educational Council. Why not next school year? Because it says so in the law, that for 2016 and 2017 textbooks are determined according to existing regulations. I'll try to explain why I'll be against this law through answers to questions I've already shared with you. So, to whom it applies, when applied, how much time we have at our disposal to see whether anything good will be prepared for the application of this law that is lightly boasted, as publishers are easily attacked, as everything here is easily described when it comes to education and with many notes of contempt for knowledge. It's very present in our society on my great regret. I am not otherwise particularly sensitive to the issues discussed in the congregation. I don't think it's right for a MP and a messenger to be sensitive. I am on this because the amount of hypocrisy and the amount of wrong information and pathetics when it comes to the debate on education is unbearable in our society with contempt for knowledge beyond the limit of tolerance. So why is this law so interesting except that it's obvious that it has to be interesting because it directly refers to two and a half million people at least? Because it's a market of about six billion dinars a year or about 50m euros, which doesn't look like a big sum, but it's basically quite a market and quite a safe profit. I'm not prone to the ease of hearing publishers play bad textbooks here. It's very, very scary to hear, as if we don't have a ministry, nothing, nothing, but just evil publishers. I also don't like to hear that evil educators are corrupt because of the way textbooks are approved. They're not how corrupt they are. People are corrupt and all of a sudden you have someone talking depending on which angle they come from so they say these are evil and corrupt and make bad textbooks for us, and look at us how wonderful we are. As I think Minister Verbic had a much easier task than Minister Zarko Obradovic had, who introduced private publishers. It's good to respect the facts, especially when it comes to education. So it's about the market where the profits and the profits are made and it needs to be realized, whoever makes it come true. We've heard both commentary by the minister and by many of us here that an unquality textbook has the advantage of those who approve of the rebate. Why wouldn't a quality textbook have an advantage? Why don't we have quality textbooks? I can add one completely personal note because I almost supplied Serbia's education system to children for 20 years. No textbook I've taken in my hands is for nothing. None. And it was sad for me every time a kid in any class showed me a textbook that's from my point of view, I'm talking about my relationship to textbooks, or for nothing. Why? My colleague Zlata Djeric mentioned something earlier. Because our problem in this assembly and in the government is not evil publishers, not corrupt teachers, not parents who don't have money for textbooks, is not even the fact that we don't have a National Educational Council. Our problem is that we have nothing against reproductive knowledge in our schools, exclusively reproductive knowledge. I didn't open a textbook where the child was provoked, in which he was offered to think, in which he was taught to think. Until we have such textbooks, I'm sorry, we'll be going round and round about blaming each other for why we have bad textbooks and why we don't need a system of education. Why am I going to vote against this law? Not for these reasons that I have now cited, so to whom it refers, when it will be applied and why so much noise is produced around the textbook law. I'll be against it because the Law on textbooks, for example, gives no answer to one of the key questions that is being praised here, which are textbooks in the languages of the national communities. Who translates textbooks? Who translates textbooks? There were dramatic dialogues in this room between the prime minister and members of the Albanian national community. Albanian national community members were promised textbooks in August last year. In this room there were dramatic dialogues about some national communities having textbooks in their own languages, and some do not, nor will they ever have. This bill is in the text in which the minister explained it, and in the words of many of us it is – it is excellent, it will be a textbook in minority languages. Who translates? It's a very simple question. In order to be a textbook, someone has to translate it, I guess that's clear to us, if you want that textbook to be a textbook that is in line with the teaching plans and programmes approved by the National Educational Council. The second positive picture of the Bookbooks Act, which was given here by the minister and many of us here, is that the textbooks will be for four years, so they will be able to inherit. I don't understand that part at all. To value the four-year period on which you will determine the textbook in the 21st century, I will not mention here, except now and a little quieter, pills and anything that can be put on the tablet and communicate with it, therefore, that one book will be four years old, that is, how can I tell you, a world view and this view of a world that is not looking at the world through a window in the 21st century. On the other hand, I understand the minister or others who praise it, because one Belgrade mom, with two beautiful children, a girl in fifth grade, showed me an account for a set of textbooks for the fifth grade of 9.974,35 dinars. I don't know, she didn't show me for a younger son's set that's underclass. It's a huge expense for a family where the average profit is, if they have it at all, 38 or 43,000 dinars. Now, if we can understand that I have an ethical problem voting for this law, the minister tells me in the 21st century -- we will have books that will be valid for four years, so children will be able to inherit books, so parents will not spend money on books and you have the 21st century when innovations in the field of education happen at a semi-annual level. When you look around the world, even the environment, you don't have to go to America, Canada or Finland, when there were talks in our assembly about innovations in education, in general about dynamics that we could change our education? While he was a minister, Zarko Obradovic had one attempt to replace this debate and the attempt simply did not come across a good response, as if it had been seen as an attack on some valuableness that we have in our education system. Well, where are the results from that education system, if it's so valuable? Where are all these pathetic descriptions of how our education is terribly bad, how are our educators corrupt, how are our publishers doing this, etc? I deliberately caricate this part, because when you can hear your ears right, that's exactly what you're hearing. When it is said that this Law on textbooks will achieve quality in two years, it means school 2017/2018. a year, a textbook that will be evaluated with reference, markets that will be regulated, reduced corruption and, hopefully, satisfied parents, students and educators, then I do not see in this law, in no member a fortitude for such an attitude. I understand both the minister and all those who defend the law to defend the law. There's one more or less anecdote of what you're doing with the law when you're government or when you're an MP to the ruling majority? You're using the old bass, our traditional, "I'll stand up." Everything's gonna be great, just so it all turns out to be in place. That's legitimate. So don't get me wrong, I'm not criticizing it. It is my fault for this atmosphere of contempt for the knowledge and closure of the eyes to the facts of knowledge as the main resource of the 21st century. I'll also vote against these other two laws for two similar reasons. The first is, I can't resist it, so the law that reads has entered - is deleted. It's often debated here whether to delete or not. Of course she can wipe herself out. So, the whole law is one member to delete, a member that applies to pension conditions. It's not a alignment with the Labour Act. Whoever wants to believe you, that's fine, and I'll give you an example of Peter Petrovic, who, for example, turned 40 on October 15th 2015 and 15 April 2016 in life. With this law, he can work until the end of the school year, and by erasing this law, he can't. Why would you delete that law? It is not true that by eradicating that member in the existing system law, it is brought into the same position. It seems to me that this member has fallen into the time seal between the Law on the reduction of the maximum number of employees and this law. And because it seems to me, and you haven't convinced me that this puts everyone in the same legal position, so I'll be against it. And most difficult against the amendments to the Law on Higher Education. What's the hardest case against? Because the amendments to the Law on Higher Education were only a subject because of the deadlines examined. Since the introduction of a law that should make it possible for our students to move fully with EU students, so the famous "Bolonja", we have never talked about how low the level of working with students is. We never talked about why consultations aren't mandatory. We never talked about quality. We did, but in an ugly, sensational way. We've never talked about the research work of teachers and professors, about low levels and competence indices that we have, about the lack of journals for social sciences, about many of the problems that exist in our higher education. No, we never talked about it. We only talked about exam deadlines for students. Why isn't this good? Because it is clearly read as an attempt by the Ministry to take off the student's request for so many deadlines and so many deadlines, which is also legitimate. Every autumn there are students, they say – we want another deadline. I fully understand the students and the Ministry who say – no more, come on someone else a little bit. Who's the other one? They're universities now. This puts a mess into a system like this that doesn't have enough order. When and if universities decide on the number of deadlines examined and how and at which college is it, there is no hope anymore that we will ever talk about the quality of teaching at universities and universities in Serbia, but it will all go down to what university is better with how many deadlines. This fairy tale about how important it is to have a large number of deadlines, so the exams will take place, a fairy tale that is practically known only here and in some other countries. I'm sorry that it's obvious that we're all going to have a considerable number of test deadlines before we sit down and we all start discussing together what knowledge in our society means to all of us and what we will do without respect for knowledge in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33545	Thank you. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33546	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of Parliament, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group on the draft laws discussed today by the Assembly. We will otherwise support all three proposals that are on the agenda, both the draft law on textbooks, and amendments to the Law on Higher Education and Change and Supplements to the Law on the Basic System of Education and Education. Before I say a few words about the Law on textbooks and why our MP group will support this law, I would like to say or to paraphrasise one of our famous scientist Jovan Cvijic, who roughly said that all of us, in an attempt to reach scientific heights, are climbing each other on our shoulders, in order to achieve what we want. I'm saying this because we need to understand that there's nothing in this society that hasn't started since yesterday or the day before yesterday, there's a lot already. The main point of the proposal is to find the best solutions to the current situation and to make one projection of what will be important for education in the years to come. I'm saying this for the reason I defended the law in 2009. I need to tell you a few things that are important for today's debate, since there's not a lot of accurate data from all those who talked about the Bookbooks Act. It should be noted that the position of the public publisher in 2009 was regulated under the law of 1993 and that private publishers were carrying out their work under the provisions of the laws on the basic system of education and education. So, there was not a single complete law on textbooks that, for example, would equate the status of private and public publishers and that there were a lot of jobs in the ministry that we tried to solve and make a law before us. I think now is the right time for that law to change. I think it's a good thing the law is changing because practice over the past six years has shown that some solutions simply haven't endured those practices. Mechanisms should be established which, in relation to the problems identified in the areas of preparation, publishing, choice of textbooks, related to the quality of textbooks, are related to the procedures of how a quality textbook is reached, that it is good that this law is passed. I see through this law the real desire of the promoter to get one law that will be the law for the years to come. There are, in my opinion, a few reasons why this law should be supported. I've classified them the following way. The reasons why this law should be voted on are, above all, insisting on improving the quality of textbooks. The textbook is one of the important preconditions for improving the quality of the education system. There's only textbooks here today. The question of the position of teachers is ignored and the question of the position of students is ignored. We know, I also said that today on the Education Committee on this magic triangle, textbook – student – teacher. If the chemistry needed to acquire knowledge is not established, nothing in itself will mean a quality textbook unless the student has a desire to learn, and we have a competent, quality teacher who can pass on the content of this quality textbook to the student. Then, the second reason is the proposal that all categories of students receive quality textbooks, both high-school students, three-year-olds and four-year-olds, both members of national minorities and students with developmental disorders, with disabilities. Now I'd like to make a little remark or remark. Today they were heard from some authorised representatives: “Members of the national minorities did not have textbooks. ” That's not true. National minorities had textbooks, but not all, or at least those national minorities or those students and members of individual national minorities whose number was so large that there was obviously no desire for the publisher to print these textbooks with a circulation of 150 or 300 textbooks. It's a good thing the promoter now found a mechanism to provide for those students' textbooks. I'm saying this because, as a country, we have, here, and in this content of the law, it's said that eight minority languages are in use in elementary school. You know that we, as a country, have an obligation to provide adequate information on the application of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, the Charter of Regional and Minority Languages and Type Assessments, we have done for minorities, not to mention for which minorities and to what extent, are objectively something that damages the state. The same applies to high school students. I mentioned that example today. I have information from one publisher, I will not mention who it is, which informs me, and I, that, for example, works, are really used for some textbooks in secondary vocational education textbooks from 1988, 1997, 1996 or 1990, but is also being notified to the public, at least to me, and I to you, that for the same subjects there are textbooks that are published in 2012, 2013, 2015, 2014. So we have the initiative that brought that result. The fact is that secondary vocational education does not have textbooks that follow all these changes that take place in society, but it is forgotten that in the existing law, and in Article 9, there was a very clear provision where it is said that the National Educational Council, on a proposal from the Education and Education Institute, determines the need for new textbooks and brings up a textbook plan. So there is a normative basis to make a textbook for both secondary education or individual subjects, but why the NPS or the Institute have not responded, or the NPS, to the proposal of the Institute, is already a question that deserves an answer. The third thing that is also important and should be voted on is the proposal to define the volume of textbooks. I find this very important because the outcomes of knowledge can provide an answer to the indicative number of pages for a particular textbook. I think it's a good thing and it's a good solution in this law. After that, the positive thing is also the proposal's intention to limit the price of textbooks. In fact, there is a situation in the market such that, of course, only publishers know by which criteria determine the price of textbooks and will need to be given an analytical assessment of why a textbook has a price and thus give the possibility to others, if I may say so, to fit within that price. It is a good solution that, as a rule, textbooks also have an electronic add-on to the textbook. It is also good that there is a plan of textbooks, i.e. a catalogue of textbooks. I think it's a good solution, which unfortunately in the existing law we didn't have, that publishers pay the cost of assessing the quality of the offered textbook. In the 2009 solution, we had another practice. Personally, I think this is a good solution, as I think a good solution is to form a special fund to provide these necessary textbooks. The minister was saying something about it today. We had that solution right now, but the percentage was 1% and those funds weren't used. So, I've listed eight or nine reasons that are at least worth voting for the Bookbooks Act because, as well as the reasoning, this new Bookbooks Act should benefit everyone, both students and parents and teachers, and also publishers. Why not, and publishers, should be mentioned too. However, when we talk about this law and the reasons why it is necessary to vote, I cannot help but ask the minister certain things that I have touched today. One of them is – the law provides for a solution that the minister determines the maximum price of textbooks, manuals and teaching materials. I think that's very good. That's a good solution. However, the question arises – what about other teaching means, since the content of the law uses the expression of another component of the textbook set? What about their price? Can those other components raise the price of the textbook set? I say this based on practice when we promoted a project of free textbooks in the lower classes in the first cycle of primary education. Then we said that the training kit is a textbook and a workbook. Immediately the next day the price of the workbook rose because the publishers, of course, saw that when the textbook was valid for three years and when the second and third years would not be printed, part of the revenue planned was lost and immediately increased the price of the workbook. The other thing we expect the minister to say is the license issue. Right, it was 79 licenses. The criteria for obtaining a licence may not have been of high quality, but these criteria still established and knew exactly who might be involved in publishing. Here, all those who work in publishing textbooks, here all those who do publishing work can be publishers. Here, I'm free to share with you one thought, imagine tomorrow's newspaper publishing houses, the big ones that deal with publishing textbooks. Why? There is a very logical possibility that I can find the right author and participate in this whole, to say the cycle, to approve the textbook, because a competent, quality author will be the assumption that this textbook will pass all the procedures. For them is a small amount of funds to get one author or give him a fee with the fact that that textbook is next four years, a textbook to be bought. Around the monopoly, is there any danger of establishing a monopoly of large publishers? Why? It is logical to assume that the greatest great publishers will have the highest number of manuscripts. It is logical to assume that the largest number of manuscripts will be selected. You have the opportunity to present these textbooks through the catalog, that they will be selected from those schools that they did not, I say, choose. Look, the rule of law I agree with is that we have seven selected textbooks. There's a theoretical assumption that some schools haven't been chosen, none of those six, but some seven or eight. So they have to be defined for some of these textbooks. The fact is that it cannot be ignored that the first year's textbook selection gives the publisher, brings him into a comfortable situation that he doesn't have to worry about the textbook for the next three years. I'm saying this for reasons I can assume what kind of situation the minister is in, because I was also a minister in a similar situation when I promoted a free textbook project, when we said the textbooks were valid for three years, that is, to say by some publishers, welcome to the knife, because for two years they won't make any income. And, maybe, here we are asking this question publicly, think about it, you don't have to answer me, but think about it, whether or not the publishers of each, I'm not making a difference between them, consciously, publicly advertising about some solutions, that they are problematic, and this solution that is ideal for them no one mentions at all. Admit it, for four years, three years that they have guaranteed income, so who wouldn't want to. In which I think this solution, with the variant of free textbooks, is really the best solution for me, and I see this as a transitional period towards the coming years. A few colleagues mentioned appraisers, whether it really takes a condition of two years of working experience sufficient conditions for someone who needs to evaluate the quality of textbooks. I think maybe you should take one step here and give some other solution to the proposed amendments, because still, it's about the person on the reviewer list who needs to evaluate the quality of one textbook. Then, regarding Article 33, I think attitude 7 in it is said - the same textbook uses for the same teaching period according to the spelling. As a rule, the same textbook is used, wouldn't it be logical to use the same textbook because it is taughtly larger on the proposal of professional councils to choose between the offered and one textbook. I'm saying this for a reason because we had a situation in schools, I don't know if you know about it, Mr. Minister, when the application of this law began, we had a situation that in the lower classes of selecting one publisher from the mother tongue or mathematics automatically meant choosing that publisher and for all other subjects. We eliminated it with a free textbook project. We asked for a classmate to meet and choose those who are the best-quality textbook, but not to have a situation in the same class, in three departments, three different sets of textbooks. And I think here's the word for this, by the rule that maybe it is a surplus. I also think maybe there should be a better balance in the obligations between you, the NPS and the institute. Because both the National Educational Council and the Institute for Promotion, Education and Education are the link between the education system, and you will be responsible for everything. It's not fair, it's not order, but both the NPS and the Institute may have found in this law to say for themselves a more active place. A few words about free textbooks. Free textbooks are a project that we promoted in 2009, 2010 and which was applied up to the level of the fourth grade for six years because there were no funds for the fifth grade of about a million and 300,000 students received these free textbook sets, with the set being a textbook and a workbook. They could have been used both for the second generation and for the third generation, but I must say that this is one project that I am deeply convinced that in the years to come, I understand you, I understand the lack of financial resources, but since you yourself have promoted the goal of the ministry of free textbooks for all students and that the Constitution prescribes mandatory basic education and free elementary education. In my view, the best option for future time would be free textbooks with four years of validity of this textbook, and that would be a solution that would be good for students, which would be good for parents, which would be good for teachers and only publishers would disagree with that for those abovementioned reasons. Let me give you a few minutes to give that other law, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. My first job in 2008 when I became a minister was to amend the Law on Higher Education and then establish 48 points as the basis for enrollment of the year. It's 2015, 2014/15. Now 2015/16 and 48 points remain the condition necessary for the condition. It also allows higher education institutions to determine the number of deadlines tested. I understand the reasons you stated, I accept them, we'll vote for them, but I'll give you one, if I can tell you the college council. When you make a new Law on Higher Education, the new Law on Higher Education should explicitly say that a generation of, say, 2018/19. enters the next school year with 60 points leaving high school institutions with a number of deadlines. And then state what practice is in other countries, whether in these countries and whether we have two, three or more or less deadlines, because once we have to answer that famous question, how much is really done and whether we want quality higher education. This is what I'm saying in 2008 that I took part in the change of that law, that law has been changed several times. In 2010, together with students, the National Council for Higher Education, an agreement was reached to reach a solution that will then determine 48 points and to increase the number of points and to simultaneously reduce the number of deadlines. The condition for this was to give high school institutions the answer to the following question – whether the study programmes are quality, as taught, whether the textbooks are quality, whether they are quality from the point of view whether they enable understanding of the matter, how classes are performed, what forms of student knowledge checks are, whether they are satisfied or not satisfied. Why? We have paradoxical situations in certain qualities, and it's not up to you and me to handle it, but it has to be said, we had some colleges, where an example works out a number of students to pass, with a suitable professor, and to say college authorities don't respond to that. I'm mentioning this for the reason we have practice that colleges go on a low-resist course. They answer objectively to the ministry's agreement and education, but it also suits them that there are as many students on the budget as possible. I don't know if the public knows, but in practice, colleges get more money than students who are on the budget than self-financed. And as long as this condition is 48, of course there will always be an adequate number of students and the funds will be large. I want to share with you the view that colleges need even more money, if we want to raise quality, but this solution will have to or should at least in the years that we come to change, although if we want to be part of the European space of higher education, and we want those assessments that we get at international conferences on higher education, we need to take an analytical look. So those areas where we get good grades to promote, and the ones where we're weak, and we're partly weak for economic reasons, say honestly what that's all about. Because higher education is one of the areas and I'm going to end it, seeing time leaks, higher education is one of the areas that we can, to say the least, boast in the world. It should not be forgotten that in recent years our students have won first places in the world in various international competitions, not to mention Europe and that the Belgrade University is among the 500 and 400 best in the world compared to the Shanghai List. So, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, we members of the SPS Group will vote for these three laws, including this third one for the possibility of retirement under more favourable conditions, but I want to tell you, when we changed that law when we made that decision, it was then made in agreement with the trade unions. Why am I saying this? Unions, students, are trying to make their opinion known to the minister as the only possible. The ministry must have the strength to take a step further and to look at what it is to the education system and Serbia and to make such solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33547	Thank you, Dr. Obradovic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33548	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will at the very beginning highlight everyone's support for the SNS laws that are now in force, and firstly explain this support for the laws currently in force. So, strictly in the shortest, since we have a lot of stories ahead of us on the subject of this great law, that is, a new law that is also before us. When it comes to the Law that deals with the amendments to the law on the foundations of the education and education system, I think we are very precise and clear, acceptable to anyone who wanted to hear it, heard the argument at the very beginning of today's debate, the explanation given by the minister. So, this change refers to all those cases where there was a possibility that one of the two conditions that stood in logical discussion was met, there is a possibility that certain damages could occur for one condition, and which is reflected in the loss of a certain percentage, namely 0.34% of possible earnings for each month, which is missing for the fulfillment of that other condition. So there's a situation more than clear. The basis found in the Labour Act also, more than clear and certainly no reason not to accept such a thing. Finding any example of something that, by reason, was not even the subject of thinking, was not intended to, possibly, change, advance and correct in any way by this amendment of the law, and this would refer to the possibility of working some month longer. So let's compare that, put it on the scale with the possibility that it's going to work for many months longer, sometimes and years longer, and add to all of that this income difference, and we'll see that the proposed solution is more than justifiable. Second amendment relating to the Law on Higher Education. And here we heard a list of words of understanding and of support. I'm also joining them on my side. We've already talked about all these laws, and about this on the committee responsible. I really think it's more than meaningful that a higher education institution defines the number of deadlines in accordance with the specific own needs that it certainly is able to define itself in the best possible way. We have heard two comments on the subject of possible grudges for this legal solution, that is, this proposal. The first one refers to exactly what I just said. We have heard as a possible argument that there are various partial needs for different areas, that it is not the same in social and natural sciences, that each of them may have different needs for the number of test deadlines, is it not, ladies and gentlemen, just more reason to support this solution? We are now providing an opportunity for every higher education facility to define these partial needs to be set up in accordance with them. The other thing is, this is how a mess is being introduced. I think we even heard the term "haos" in this debate on the assembly committee. Fortunately, we haven't heard from her today, at least not yet, I hope we won't, I sincerely hope we won't, it certainly isn't. So, as we have told each other at the time, neither can the higher education institutions nor their right to decide on their own needs and to define the way these needs will be met and synonym for chaos, please, nor is the subject of these changes not something else, and what the topic of today's debate is not something else, has to do with higher education, is absolutely no reason not to support this solution. A few words, although frankly, are so many good details about the proposed law on textbooks, that even this time that we have before us defined the Rules of Procedure will not be enough in the sense that every detail is given as much attention as it deserves without a man being wronged, or that he does not fail to say anything else. This is no doubt an extraordinary bill. Outstanding. And whoever paid attention was able to hear that such an impression was really going on today, and not only during this debate into the prey, we could, ladies and gentlemen, conclude at the debate we had on the board today, and once again, not just today. First of all, I would like to thank all those who have expressed their support for this legal solution, first of all, and then thank those who have expressed their reservations and shown some criticism, and even mention that they will not support the law. He thanked them, too, for the arguments, or for what they were supposed to be, to support the words that there was no support or that criticism should be highlighted today, as they were. That's why, from the point of view of someone who supports the law, I can only thank you, and we'll talk about it a little bit more detail. In case it may not have been clear to someone, what we're doing today on this law, if I've been wrong, I'll apologize, and you know that it was never a problem, but it seems to me that I've heard well enough that some of us still haven't been able to figure out what we're doing today on this law, not ladies and gentlemen, we're not pointing fingers, and we're not saying that it's someone's fault that's disastrously bad in a sector, we're talking about a remarkable solution that's going to make things better. We're talking about things we weren't happy about, and we don't want to say these things or them, they're like that, we want to talk about solutions that are such that, I'm sure, will provide a seven-mile step in relation to the situation in practice. Which way? Well, for example, by saying another sentence on the subject of the situation in practice, so, the situation that we're going to improve when, I'm sure, we adopt this law. In this regard, I would refer to some of the thoughts published in a letter of the daily newspaper “News”, 22 May 2015, which did not want to show things more beautiful than they are, and yet you will hear, with the assessments it contains, it does not come out of the frame of good taste or cross this line of finger resistance, which we certainly do not need to cross today. Otherwise, whoever looks for this text will see that the author is more than famous to write about this topic. The situation shown, perhaps, is best viewed in the words used by counterpart Obradovic, that some solutions unfortunately did not withstand the challenges of practice. Under one – it is noted that there is a problem in the unregulated textbook market, that with more than 70 publishers standing even an estimate, I quote it now, "the school has somehow been converted into a market". It is a finding of a general impression, and I think it fully agrees with what we also heard today from distinguished colleagues who performed as authorised representatives of their parliamentary groups, so Bicanin, who underlined that students are not customers and that it is also important to keep in mind when we talk about this issue, as well as co-worker Djeric, that we should not base our logic on rebate, but quality. Secondly, it is noted that there was aggressive pressure from the publisher. Again, no finger-pointing findings. We talked about behavior that may even be logical, for market behaviour, but we need to be aware here we can't be guided by that logic. This area is not something that can be left to any verse, even if it is the law of the free market. Call in any way, we're talking about an area of special importance, we've heard areas of general national interest today. Third, that the disciples were unprotected. And we talked about it today and in terms of a defined textbook program and in terms of the number of pages, that is, the amount of material that they had to wear on their shoulders, and which, unfortunately, was shown, was once defined solely by what was meant to come back into contact with some material benefit. That the parents paid for it, and that's the fact, and the textbooks couldn't inherit it and what the parents indicated during the preparation of this bill, during those public hearings we discussed during the full debate. That the price is also something that they pointed to as problematic, that there were more reasons to ask ourselves -- is what fell on the burden of the budget really and had to be realized that way? In particular, commissions that assessed certain quality are subject to commissions. At the very end, when it comes to quality, the conclusion of this letter was whether complete liberalisation of quality was improved or did not remain at issue and that it was a topic for a deeper and wider discussion, that after such solutions, when the practice did its work, we were unable to say whether or not that goal was met. Now what? What about the proposed new law we want to change? You heard what the situation looked like by now. We'll talk, I'm sure today and these days when we discuss further in detail whether we're satisfied with this situation. I don't think I'll hear we're from anyone. What did the ministry point out as a legislator of the new law? What sets as a goal to be fulfilled? One, to ensure available, quality textbook. Two, to solve the problem of transparency and the problem of possible corruption. Under three to protect the family budget. We'll talk about all of this in more detail, but in the shortest way, why don't we just give it one more time – what do we get by this bill? Very precise procedures are defined, precise and quality. These procedures have to do with both the first and second objectives set by the ministry. So, with the formation of a quality textbook and the issue of transparency. It's very precise how they compete, how the grades are given, who does it, how the list is formed, how do they post-determination in individual schools, how do they form a catalogue, and what happens in individual cases that can be found in practice? In a way that what we all need to be, number one, and the main goal of thinking about this law, this solution, but generally about this area, is to make it clear that the students are in the focus of this issue and, under two, to make sure that once again, once again, and it is never sufficiently underlined, it is an area of unquestionable social importance and of particular interest. Secondly, because of the good solutions when it comes to the free textbook program, and I believe we'll agree on that as well. Thirdly, to really introduce order, a certain order in relation to the situation that we have had in practice so far, when it comes to textbooks that will be used. We're talking about that percentage that needs to be satisfied in terms of declared students from a particular generation for certain textbooks. This solution is good. What, we'll agree, I'm sure, is a certain balance again. We often talk about this balance, about looking for a good balance between some different extremes, where we can find different reasons to support both of these and other options, and what would be in the sphere between them, and the absolutely open market, from one, and the possibility that maybe the state is strictly concerned about this problem, given that, once again, it is of particular importance to society. There's both for and against, and when we talk about some balance between, it could be found right in the proposed solution. Thus, at the required percentage of 5% of students declared, i.e. schools covering that number of students within a generation. Why? There is one contribution in the accompanying material that shows one study. Therefore, the proposal to make this look if it would now apply to the current situation of textbooks currently offered on the market and publishers. If someone takes and counts, I'm hoping that I've done it precisely enough, you can see a drastic difference in the number of titles, and yet in the number of publishers, although we should understand each other at the very beginning is not the intensity of this law to reduce any number of publishers. The intensity is what we've been talking about all day, to introduce order, to put that unnecessary colourfulness in an ad act, and that something that needs to be solved systemically really looks like. In that sense, and the proposed solution to introduce a certain limited number of textbooks per class for one subject, to allow the textbooks to last four years, which is again a response to the needs of parents, remember, we talked about it today. So it's not something that someone introduced with the goal of punishing anyone or the publisher. It's something that's really a practical need, which has its own logic and its own justification. When it comes to following details, we talked about both language and letter. I would also take advantage of the opportunity to commend that both the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter were evaluated in the bill. When we talk about the needs of national minorities, let me underline that all those political actors whose main focus is political action to protect this kind of right and these needs have praised these solutions. That's what I think he's saying louder than anything I'm going to say on that subject, for example. I can tell. That's what he's saying to himself. Solutions that mean really ensuring that textbooks in these languages exist, that they are prepared in time, that we do not come into a situation where we ask ourselves why they are gone and when they will be, that adequate solutions are introduced, that textbooks relating to students with disabilities and to students with developmental disorders not included in an inclusive education programme are also prepared in time. Equally on time and equally with the goal of eliminating the danger of meeting us in a situation that needs to be done, and there isn't. The electronic supplement we talked about is more than an adequate response to the time we are in, and it is something that will only come to praise. So the introduction of information and communication technologies in this segment is something that deserves to be supported by us here. Publishers are not in any way limited to participating in a fair competition. No one is favored by proposed measures and solutions. On the contrary, everyone is free to go out with such a high-quality textbook that it is accepted, not in five percent, in 65% of any generation. There's no legal obstacle to a quality job doing it that way. There's no one. Furthermore, that an obligation was imposed to allocate two percent of the net income, which should provide all the needs I spoke about earlier, I am convinced that the thing that everyone will support is. Mechanical guarantee as a new means of security that needs to ensure that this is actually realised in practice in the way it is intended. The quality monitoring obligation that we will surely support, etc. In a minute and a half, what have we heard as reserves, comments and regrets today, so far? That autonomy is put aside, that teachers do not ask themselves when choosing textbooks, in Article 33, writes nicely, clearly, and legibly what the role of teachers is, or who actually makes this teaching council that makes decisions. I don't want to waste any time on that. Were or were not representatives of the ruling coalition contrary to all others during the debate on this law? No, because we talked, parents supported it. It's not a little bit. Furthermore, did they have any effect on the process of passing this law? Factors, like the rapporteur of the European Parliament. Please, there's a colleague from the board of directors here, so we don't talk about it. Everyone here will testify that this letter has arrived several days after the previous text was withdrawn by the proposings, and everyone will also, as I'm sure, confirm exactly that all those who were wondering what happened today at the Committee's session said – this solution is really better and better than the one we could discuss in June. Whoever answered the word, to be precise enough. Next, Article 33, does the Director make any decisions? I call upon everyone to open and read the text of that member. There's no mention of the directors. Is the way of choice such that it favors large environments, i.e. to prevent small environments with a small number of students from pleading, to participate, and whether this is a kind of metropolisation, just as much as any democratic principle is the same. So, I'm sure we'll understand each other about this, too, it's not something we should spend our time on in the debate, not another word. Well, if those were the grounds for conditional support, I'm convinced that the support will be in the voter's day by those distinguished colleagues who put this kind of grudge out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33549	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33550	Who translates textbooks in the languages of national minorities? It is also responsible in Article 33. At least this is simple. And why did we support approval for four years? Also, we've said it many times today, and I think this is more than clear. Finally, if these words are contributing to the topic of defending the law, then it seems that the grudges were actually only a contribution to the topic of how to attack what is proposed by the ministry, whether for that space or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33551	Thank you, Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33552	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am sure that, however this debate continues, we will not hear a single word on the subject – what is better in the present state, and we have heard what it is. By doing the only thing we can, which is to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33553	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Time's up, please. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33554	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members, I think we have a very constructive discussion, regardless of whether authorised representatives of parliamentary groups announce that they will vote or will not vote in favour of the proposal for a law on textbooks, and that is why I would like to clarify some of the elements in the proposed law that may lead to confusion or are not sufficiently understood by MPs. One of those moments is why are we choosing textbooks for four years? So we've heard thesis, which I think is very thin, that the choice of textbooks at the age of four is not suitable for the 21st century, but we've also heard that we pay too much attention to reproductive learning. Those two things are collapsing. Imagine that every year we print new textbooks that are significantly different from that of the previous year, that they are fundamentally different. Then what would that mean? That would mean that only the factography is changing, and that's exactly what we don't want. We want textbooks that will teach students how to learn and how to think and those textbooks that make it possible do not become obsolete. So they'll be more equal if they're two years old and 102 years old. They'll make it possible. So, the reason why we're introducing textbooks for four years isn't because knowledge gets old. The reasons for this are technical. We have limited capacities, we can't find enough authors, we can't find enough browsers to meet all the conditions, we can't even find enough quality translators. We need to be aware of the situation. Even much larger countries than Serbia is population, they cannot afford to keep making new editions. So the reasons are technical and economical. Why does he choose for four years and where innovation is? That was also asked as a question. Where's the creativity in making new textbooks? Well, innovation should be seen, first of all, in what teachers themselves can do. This bill actually invites teachers themselves to become more involved in making, both textbooks and additional teaching materials. And the right place for that is the electronic supplement. So if that electronic supplement grows into something that is an open textbook, which all teachers change, adapt, which develops as open textbooks on Wikipedia, none of us will mind. If we can make quality material at that rate, we'll all be more than satisfied. After all, our goal is to use technology to adapt textbooks and teaching materials to each individual student as much as possible. What the teacher can't, what the written printed textbook can't, the electronic media can, and that's why we want to open that possibility. So, an electronic supplement is an opportunity to be innovative and creative. I hope that we will take this opportunity as much as possible and that the dynamics of changing this material will certainly not be seen much more in an electronic supplement than in what is printed, and yet I note the reasons why textbooks are chosen at four years are certainly not because we have nothing new to write in four years, but mostly technical and economical, and we think that four years is the right measure and that this is also the measure that allows those small publishers, who may not be able to choose on the market for more than one year or two, that they now have stability in four years, even those who are innovative and who many would not recognise as a quality textbook or many would not be able to adjust their way of working to that textbook, however, have opportunities if they choose more than 5% of schools to plan on a longer period. For four years, it allows stability even for small publishers, and we have to think about small publishers because very often they are more innovative than those that cover a large part of the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33555	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk MP Gordana Topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33556	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, in today's debate on the set of law from education, I will talk in my presentation about the proposal for a law on textbooks. As is the authorised representative of the SPS Professor Zarko Obradovic said, our MP group and I will personally support both the draft law on textbooks and the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education, amendments to the granting of autonomy to the colleges related to the number and time of the deadlines under examination, as well as the draft law amending the Law on the basic system of education and education, amendments relating to the regulation of the termination of the teaching staff's employment relationship and their equalisation with the general rules on labour and pension insurance. We live in the time of the information era when information spreads at unprecedented speeds are available to everyone at all times. It is therefore difficult to move forward with time, so the new bill tries to find a legal solution that provides for the harmonisation of legal frameworks in the area of the publishing of textbooks. The emphasis is placed on improving the quality of textbooks that we all benefit from, primarily children, teachers, and thus education as the most important segment of the development of society because it is an investment in the future, and we should not save on education. We Socialists have always advocated free education because only then will education be equally accessible to everyone. We started a completely free education in elementary school by introducing a free textbook project in the first cycle of primary education while the minister of education was a professor. Obradovic. The new textbooks will emerge from new curricula and programmes and new standards, all with the aim of monitoring the development of society and modernising education, which is an indicator of the introduction into a defined set of textbooks and an electronic supplement that should, as a rule, be contained in all the textbooks that would be used for independent work, check acquired knowledge, as well as the expansion of knowledge. The proposal for this law is more responsible for the publishers themselves, especially because of the withdrawal of licences, because now textbook publishers can be all those registered for publishing. An important role in the professional evaluation of textbooks is given by textbooks, as well as by the National Educational Council, which sets quality standards and brings a textbook plan on the proposal of the Institute for the Promotion of Education. My regret is that one of the conditions for applying for a list of graders is two years of training in the profession, because, as far as the primary school is concerned, it should be, in my opinion, four years, as long as one educational cycle takes, so teachers and classrooms and classes in question should have a complete overview of the material by classes and their integration and upgrades, and also through the work gained experience, if all is appropriate to the age and understanding of the child, because only basic education is divided into two cycles. Healthy competition always turned out to be good. This was the case in the previous period, when we had 79 licensed publishers, of which nine were crystallized in the Project free textbooks, one of which was represented by as many as 35%, which means that the percentage of 5% of the least selected textbook by the same generation was not determined in terms of quality, and the fulfilment of the conditions for entry into the catalogue among the first six, especially when the choice of students is not affected by the price guaranteed by this bill and each type of corruption is sanctioned by criminal provisions. It should be pointed out that, when it comes to low budget textbooks, the obligation of the publisher to apply the note and consent as a condition for entering the catalogue to print textbooks in the languages of the national minority and for the needs of schools for students with developmental and disability disorders. So far, the current has not been binding on publishers, so there has been a major problem in practice, especially in secondary schools and schools dealing with education and raising children with developmental disorders. As for the textbook to be printed in Bray’s letter, the advantage is that there is a program and special printers that directly transfer and print the textbooks in Bray’s letter. Transparency and the public of all the results of this law, from members from the list of graders, their biographies, professional evaluations of textbooks and the availability of teaching staff in the selection of students from the list of selected textbooks, as well as comparison of the quality of textbooks through a professional grade, which is the basis for meeting the standards, and the content of the textbooks itself is a great advantage of this bill to improve and improve the education system, especially when it comes to professional secondary schools that are in the same problem, as I have already said, as well as schools that deal with education of children with special needs, so that we have a problem that our children are not adequately trained and in line with modern technological development, which can only be made up by their professional pawnage and expertise partially compensate the teacher. It is also positive that for the gradual improvement of textbooks, it does not have to wait four years. By monitoring the quality of the institutions and publishers, up to 5% of publishers will be able to change and thus improve the textbook, which is not subject to new approval. At the same time, the previous version that can be inherited remains in use. The bill sets out exactly every step and deadline of the textbook's plan, which brings the National Educational Council, on a proposal from the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, through a public call for applications for the approval of textbooks, manuals and teaching materials, the adoption of requests to the Ministry, until the very arrival of textbooks for sale. Because of its accuracy and because of the possibility of making mistakes, it is also envisaged that the full entry into force of this bill, with the new curriculum and programme, should start from school 2019/20. A year. What's new is changing the free textbook project. Only children from socially-materially endangered families will now be covered by this project. This year, for school 2015/2016 One year, the competition was conducted on the basis of an application form, with students applying for textbook funds, and the level of funding depends on the class that the student attends and the material status of the family, thus achieving equal availability of students and equal burden on family budgets. I sincerely hope that until the full application of this law, which is planned, as I have already mentioned, from school 2019/20. For years, the state and the Ministry of Education, in the right sense of the word free education, can provide free textbooks for all levels of education, and especially basic education that is mandatory and free under the Constitution, and for which we socialists stand by our programme and idea, because it is only the same and accessible to everyone. At present we are not in a position to implement this in this period, but in the light of the law it is said – the strategic goal of the Ministry is to provide free textbooks for all, which is also the content of the Education Strategy brought in 2012, and this is also a reason more to support this law as a starter of the Free textbooks Project in Voting Day. The most important task of the Ministry and other competent authorities and institutions, in order for the textbook to be of quality, is to make up a good teaching programme, a textbook plan and standards as the basis for a contentable, applicable textbook that leads to the desired goal, which is the applicable knowledge, learning for life. Irreversible and also significant throughout the process of education is also a teacher, i.e. A teacher without whom, as a good educator and a methodist, there is no improvement in education. I point out that it must be accounted for and not turn educational workers into administrative workers, but as we promote the quality of textbooks, so we must also take care of the professional improvement of teaching staff, which is directly linked to the textbook as a knowledge transferr and links between textbooks and students, as well as respect and respect for their personality and professional status, because they are bearers of the greatest burden, both in the process of education and in the construction of socially responsible people who are bearers of the future and social order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33557	Thank you, Mrs. Topic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33558	We have three laws from the Ministry of Education, a law on textbooks, a law dealing with the layoff of educational workers or their retirement, and a third law deals with exams, that is, the definition of how many test deadlines should be in colleges. We've got a new book code. It's been, I mean, two months since that failed attempt with the previous text, and no doubt this text differs. My question is why is it different? Why is that great law, how you defended it in public and how it was defended by the congregation majority when there were more than 16, how many of them are here now, why is that law withdrawn? Why did we get a new law? Who won that? Is that where he beat the quality of the new law, or is that where he beat some pressure? That's where all the ugly things happened. Mrs. Luzanin said she had threats. Mr. Shuvakov got his ass kicked. Does that have anything to do with the new text of the law? Who is this text of the law written for students or publishers? What is the objective of this proposal for a law on textbooks, quality or profit division? That's all the questions we didn't get answers to. In this bill of law, you gave in an explanation and that part behind the scheme of corruption, how publishers can corrupt educational workers. Are you saying it's happening or are you just doubting it? If you're saying, let's see who's in jail for being corrupt and give us arguments as to why this is now impossible under the new law. The anti-corruption agency claims the law is a good basis for spreading corruption. You gave the scheme how to corrupt teachers, how to corrupt ministers. Is there a pattern? That would be interesting to see. The law that deals with the termination of the working relationship of educators is, as far as I understand it, the same law that, as far as I've seen, has one member, or so, and that article reads, "It is deleted," as I understand it. There, and from the Ministry of Education come such legal proposals where they write – it is deleted, so that colleagues who react in a strange way to our amendments when we write are deleted, here, have another proof that it is civilized, polite. On the subject, I can only tell you that it's a sad country, that it's a sad society, that it's a sad state where education workers are extra, and in which the police have fewer employees. I'm sure most of them know there's always a thousand, two thousand cops missing from the police. There have been thousands of officers missing in Belgrade for decades. I repeat, there's a sad state where there's no need for educators, and there's a need for extra cops. Finally, we have that part about the exam. I think that's a bad solution. It's not democracy, it's not the market, it's running away from responsibility. So the state prescribes how many test deadlines should be. In our amendment, we have been defined as five deadlines, and you will have in mind our arguments why. That every college can have exam deadlines as long as you want, so we'll have an incredibly big interest in studying, especially in the third age, especially in political parties, especially in high-level candidates. You'll have colleges where you learn and colleges where you lay every other day. I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33559	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33560	Give me an answer why we don't have the National Educational Council for four months, and everyone sent their candidates?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33561	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, Dr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33562	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, obviously we have objections from colleagues from the past years who led such a safe country where we have a shortage of police officers and a surplus of educational workers. But that shows something else, that we're really conceptually different. In a state where there is no repression, it is normal that there is no need to hire a large number of police officers. A state when it's democratic, then there's no need for police, because police are the service of citizens. What is the point of employment in the field of education and research institutions is, in fact, the story that irresponsible policy has been conducted for the last 15 years in this portfolio because young teachers and produced, simply, profiles that did not correspond to the economy. It shows the level of general leadership of the country that then ruled. What happened today is that, in certain small steps, the Ministry of Education and Science is today trying with such legal solutions, these small steps to slowly but surely correct the big problems that have arisen in recent years in this sector, especially as we know that, as well as education, as well as culture, sectors in the country that are very sensitive. Especially that they are a reflection of the overall situation in society, when we are talking especially about the economic and social situation in the country and the state, in the end, and in the budget. What we have today, and we have the Law on the basic system of education, with which you have come out very bravely to bring justice and justice to people who have not so far had a chance to retire, or to be respected by their right to do so, is that you cannot at the end of a certain school year retire, but that the possibility for teachers and staff who work in education, in primary and secondary schools, to choose, that is to take advantage of their right so far, which has not been given to them as a possibility. What is important to say is that it should not be forgotten that there are young educators who may be on contracts today for several years, which says, the mandate, with such working status, but that they too must not be forgotten that they exist in the educational system and that this law on work in the future will also apply to them, what many have been denied. The proposal for a law on higher education, which is also from colleagues who spoke today, is true that it shows the transfer of the possibility of a decision to implement the timetables and that the decision and those decision-makers are located at universities, not in the hands of the state. What does that mean? That still means a higher degree of autonomy, in terms of decision-making, when it comes to universities. Again, the state shows great democracy, which clearly has not existed until now, but also shows the possibility that this Bologna system and this model that has so far worked in the country should be adaptable to Serbia and universities that exist, both for Belgrade's university, for both both the New Sad and the Kragujevaci. Thus, by listing all these universities, we show that even the professions and actions that exist at these universities simply cannot be put under the same archeological system, under the same possibility of getting students out on certain test deadlines. That is why it is best for the decision to be in agreement with their professors, with their scientific workers with whom they have daily contact. Such a solution should indeed be supported, especially by the fact that the Bologna model, as we have so far had in many higher education institutions, has given certain results that have caused a large number of years to be applied to show that it will give really adequate results, especially when we talk about completing studies, about obtaining certain diplomas, when you get certain educational profiles, both high school and college. The goal of obtaining these diplomas is the essence of dating, in fact, young and educated people on the labour market. The moment the labour market doesn't need such profiles, it shows an alarming state where the state has to react. Serbia is more than alarming about the education system in general, and this is the legacy of the previous certainly 15 years. Now it's up to you, that you, as the Ministry, have to make a kind of suggestion that needs to be changed. These changes, especially in education, can't go overnight. It's best seen in this textbook law. Why? Because today’s young people are simply all turned to information technologies, reading less and less, even when reading, books read in PDF. This paper form is somewhere, how can I say, one big sunflower because we are increasingly facing electronic media and today's students in higher classes and in lower classes of primary school and high school show that they are simply not interested in such a system of education. Today's teachers who, for example, educate their subjects on special websites, Facebook pages, have direct communication with their students, have much better results in their work than those who stick to those classic schools where they use certain textbooks, and in textbooks themselves you see that the easy access of writers and publishers themselves is not the same. Kids just always go somewhere with less resistance, if they can read as little as possible, and the better they can and get the best grades, that's their approach, using textbooks at all. Of course, the approach of teachers should always be to use classical methods, but also to introduce certain innovations. This law on textbooks today, however, has shown that despite the fact that you will be in a position to define by this law that there is no need for four years to publish a new textbook. You, in your very explanation, have opened up the possibility for teachers to have this additional, practical opportunity to make a better contact between themselves and students and therefore to go towards certain innovations in the education system itself, so, by doing the curriculum itself, they get. What's important is that opening up the market when they're even talking about suppliers today is a picture and an opportunity, even when we're talking about a question of competition about the representation of a different number and a growing number of publishers. This is what should be welcomed somewhere precisely because with the expansion of the number of publishers, i.e. an increase in competition prices should logically go down. That is why you need to satisfy that social category that is very important, and here you have practically covered this legal solution through certain prices and certain social categories when we are talking about the purchase of textbooks at all. Modernization of textbooks today is actually a big question. The reason is that we are in an era of modernization, not only of knowledge, but of access to these knowledge. When we're even in the era of major change, both political and economic. I'm going to give you an example, here, right now I'm telling my colleagues, let's say, in the sixth grade geography, there's a description of Serbia and the socio-economic general order when it comes to the state of the economy in Serbia at all and certain strategic projects, and let's say, in the book, that one of the major strategic projects waiting for Serbia is the project "South Stream". I want to tell you that when you come into a situation that part of the material that's been processed in textbooks, and it's not in a certain way classically processed, but we want to go into a certain kind of innovation, then we can come up with a situation that these textbooks really aren't just getting old, but you're getting into a situation that what happened three years ago might not be actual anymore. That's how you get into a situation where kids need to learn some of the unnecessarily, have unnecessary information they don't know how to deal with. This is why it is not bad that you now want to introduce one system of four years of basic information when we talk about a textbook on a particular area and what then the possibility and upgrade should go from the field of electronic media, i.e. that electronic editions that are already going along with each textbook should be an integral part of the mandatory contact of the teaching tool for work and students themselves. In the end, I would say that what we said about obtaining educational profiles at all is very important, and it's important at all for not only the economy, but also for the development of the whole country at all, it's a fundamental contact with the labour market. There is one project that the German GIZ Development Agency has been working on, which is with 500 secondary schools, which says how acceptable education profiles are in the past 10 years when we are talking in general about the interests that are current on the labour market in Serbia. Believe me, there are devastating results where it turns out that the education system has just not progressed much, and it has not progressed precisely because it has not built a new system of forming new educational profiles. So it's in the jobless service, so you don't have the educational profiles that the economy is simply looking for. This is what needs to be done as much as possible, which is actually the Law on textbooks that you are now trying to introduce into one order and in a certain way that this system of values that has experienced a complete trade, which is why everything that was current and attractive ten years ago in terms of educational profiles has proved to be a large number of unemployed and require a large system before training and training to simply find and accept everything that the labour market demands and new professions have. We are also facing a certain inflow of foreign direct investment today. So we have an opening of a factory where they are foreign, practically owners and they need a workforce from Serbia. These profiles just show what level of education Serbia should be at. If we start from the fact that the percentage of high education personnel in Serbia, Mr Obradovic, says that what applies to, and I have often listened to your presentations where they say that if we take the total percentage of those private and state universities is around 15%, and if we take the EU average as 30%, then it shows that indeed this Law on textbooks will be a great need for us because the percentage of illiterate people in Serbia is very high compared to, say, developed EU countries. If we start with that in one Japan, only 0.7% of the reason is, in fact, basic and secondary education is mandatory in Japan. Although this is likely to happen at some point in Serbia, that the state will also oblige that secondary education be the obligation of all young people, then we are in a situation that the textbooks will indeed be the whole range that will be created with a large number of publishers. Be the need in fact to have one big mile, how can I say the choice of these young people who want to enroll in high school and later go to colleges. First of all, I would also like to mention something that may have something to do with the Law on textbooks, but I think that in the future, the Bookshop and all the other publishers will go to meet it. It is that Serbia will be increasingly in need of this informal education. That's exactly what I was talking about. So, the retraining and some kind of training that will take after a certain kind of education that anyone who wants to do a certain job and be on the labour market forever is going to need a nonstop to learn. So that's what you essentially step by step with these legal proposals and voting days as well as all SNS MPs will accept these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33563	The word is Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33564	Dear Mrs. Gojkovic, guest from the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, you have probably seen from my discussions that I have no problem nor criticising legal solutions, projects, and also to commend what I think is good, a team before, which is this area of education, of course, and the area of science above politics, and that we should all be in the function of developing this area. That's why I'm surprised by some colleagues who have to take every opportunity to criticize me, of course by a moderate tone, without mentioning the name, in order to give a confession after a few months or a year, let's say what I was in the discussion of the Law on Higher Education Against, very much against that professional master degree. But what's there? There's a colleague with the same grill and the same arguments defending 15% and not even blinking, defending 5% today, and I've suggested 10% by looking for some compromise between what publishers are looking for and what the ministry is proposing. But what's there? These are the circumstances. I'll take the opportunity to underline a few things and supplement them, compared to my previous discussion. When it comes to the law, about going to retirement, I mean it's not the law, but the solution to going to the retirement of professors, teachers, teachers, it would be by erasing this member, I stress, in addition to what I said and lost that end of the school year, namely, the Labour Act doesn't recognize, so it's my suggestion that if the Ministry adopts it, some instruction to schools that, by the end of the school year, teachers, it's mostly because of the students. When it comes to the Law on Higher Education, I did not mention this transition and the insolvency internship in the previous presentation, and I have analysed the situation in the EU, in a number of countries this number of 48 points is valid and if we let students in the next year by 48 points, so it is illogical that the last year ends with 60 points and those 12 lags. So, I think it is absolutely justified, as in most EU countries, to allow them a year of that insolvency internship. My regret in this Law, with all due respect to the following circumstances, I think it was the turn with all the good news that colleagues from the ruling coalition mention, pointed out, I think it was the main order to consult the National Council for Higher Education on this Law, not officially consulted, discussed with the president, no official opinion and CONUS. That's my opinion, and that's how it's supposed to be. Now let's go back to this law. I'm sorry there's no minister here. I am pleased that the minister is pleased that I have highlighted two components of transparency and the availability of textbooks and he said that is quite enough. He probably didn't get the point of my discussion, of course it's a big step, but he didn't realize when I was talking about the conceptual definition of good law. There were several components, which I made very clear, high quality textbooks, different models, real support for the teaching process, constant training processes of textbooks, permanent processes of editorial and authorial teams, but also reviewers from the Commission for Assessment, Partnership, some say all interest groups, I wrote here those who produce books and those who evaluate and use them. Now there is transparency and accessibility, which is absolutely to the extent that this law has been achieved. Now let's get these key members, the choice of textbooks, absolutely says that as an individual, as a creative personality teacher, a teacher, I'll repeat that word, it's over. First, one bigger and the other bigger decides, and eventually the director and it all depends on the poll again. Of course, there'll be favored schools, choice of schools from big cities, big cities, we can't deny it, no matter how hard we get in. Furthermore, the catalogue of textbooks, I think it is clearly said, around these percentages, and one and the other solution is not great, and the Croatian model, we here mention and use the arguments laptop top, summering in Greece, and it was at least on the Committee, corruption of teachers, and believe it or not, in Croatia, I talked to my colleagues, and it seems that there is a higher standard, there with 10% is even a choice of textbooks and car, school directors. So, things are like that, but by various measures, it can all be brought to some acceptable number, as it is in the world. So we basically have a teacher's vote. What does the principle of a majority statement mean? Is that a guarantee they're going through the best textbooks? We do not believe that this principle can prevent corrupt school pressures until the end of the corrupt pressures, but what worries us is that this principle prevents the entry of new different books, so it is in some way related to the four-year deadline, every fourth year, does not mean, and the minister says, that now there would be chaos, if every year and does not mean that all textbooks would be done, if it were called out, some new and modern textbooks could be involved and the pressure would be dramatically reduced and that was the key comment of the publisher. We have proposed an amendment here, that every year, but judging by your comments, it's probably not acceptable for the Ministry. Now, when it comes to lists and professional quality assessments, if we've all agreed on something or it just seems to me, that's the problem of people who will participate, as I have said, should be commended and intended to choose a list of reviewers publicly, but in the bill, there is a discrepancy between the categories of quality standards and the qualifications of those who can be found on the list. That's Article 21 of Section 7 and many have mentioned it, and two years of experience on these jobs is absolutely insufficient, and today a colleague on the Committee said that she was much more rigorous than we suggested, which is to at least be one cycle of four years and that should absolutely change. Something I have not said for a moment, in the procedure of approving the textbook, there is not one instance that would check the opinion of the Commission on the evaluation of manuscripts, which was formerly the National Educational Council. So, there is no such thing as control, and maybe it would be good to go back, because it means practically that the minister is apologising the Commission's decision, because the ministry doesn't even have professional personnel capacity, that it does this job, and that's real. Finally, as regards the funding of textbooks, Article 9 is true and we praised the availability and all solutions for all groups of students, both in minority languages and with special needs, as well as for students from socially materially endangered families. However, the provisions of the proposal contain some lack of risk and corruption, which raises the question of the realisation of the stated objectives. It would not be good if, as previous years, and this action of free textbooks were used as political marketing, not only by the previous government, many previous governments were absolutely using it as political marketing and in this sense, one commendation again, we welcome the announcement that free textbooks will only be given to poor students, instead of what was before, that all students get it, regardless of their social and material status, but we regret that the bill does not deal with this topic at all, and we believe that this is a major failure. So this policy should be a systematic, predictable and well-developed measure whose mechanisms are clear, stable, all known and transparent. We understand that this is not easy, but without it, there are certain risks. In the end, we have arrived today material from the Anti-Corruption Agency where there are objections, significant objections, to many legal solutions, but we are simply aware that it is not possible to install everything, that it is not possible to standardize everything by law, but therefore you can regulate a lot of things by sublaw, which I consider to be deadlines, let's say, inadmissiblely long and that some things should be shortened, and deadlines relating to the choice of textbooks and other things related to the preparation and production of textbooks, and perhaps even reviews could be partially extended. Thank you for your attention and, I say, if our amendments to essential nature are adopted, and there are several of them, we will vote in favour of this law on textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33565	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33566	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Honored Ministers, Associates of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have three laws on the agenda in the field of education: amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the Law on textbooks and amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. So these laws are always from this area, I think, because I'm from this area and I've worked for a long time and I've dealt with these issues, very complex matter, very complex. I don't think we should make a lightly negative assessment of any attempt to improve the law through amendments and additions and the proposed new law. It's the easiest thing to criticise and find faults with the proposed solutions, but I think there's always a responsibility, and that she's here today when the minister of education, science and technological development comes out with these proposals and that in any case she assumes one improvement in these areas, in this matter. Of course, on the other hand, there is no need to easily diversify all the solutions offered, and I say for the reasons that this is a complex, complex matter and certain solutions may be under question and perhaps through practice we should check it all out, and then when the time comes and when certain shortcomings are confirmed through new changes and complements again take a step forward and propose solutions that we will consider to be better at some point. In light of what I've mentioned, I'm also going to declare that we from the SPS Group will support all three laws. So, the proposed law on textbooks certainly represents a new solution and a new improvement in relation to the previous law and, of course, what is said to be more accessible to the textbooks, which means education of students and students. Through this law we have the insistence to improve the quality of textbooks, which is very important. It is a good intention to define the volume of content and to distribute certain contents of textbooks. Of course, it should be taken into account that textbooks, content and the way matter is exposed not only assumes reproductive learning, but that these contents should provoke the finding and way of thinking of students, which is so-called. active learning. Of course, when we talk about reducing and defining the volume, we had in the past that a lot of facts, which is also a feature in elementary school, that there are a lot of facts that are too high, from the great density of the forest, you can't see trees. That's not the point. It is necessary to strive for students to understand the essence. To praise and to have an electronic addendum with textbooks, but provided that it does not now condition something else, which is to purchase laptops, computers and other devices, so that it can turn into a business again. It's good that publishers pay the cost of quality assessment. These are some moments that deserve praise and offer a new quality in this area. Our strategic goal is to ensure that textbooks are free of charge, which fits into the constitutional provision that basic education, in addition to being mandatory and free, as well as the transport of students above four kilometers is free of charge. Of course, with this project, free textbooks in the past have moved, of course, to the satisfaction of a large number of citizens, users, but of course we must be objective at the moment that the state is not able to make it through to the end in such a way as it was an attempt in the past, which is for every praise, but we hope that in some future time we will come back to the moment when we can fully realize such a project. Today, the project free textbooks are adapted to the ability of the state, so that on the basis of the application sheets, the level of participation for students of a given class and certain status, social, material, etc., in terms of threat, but if it is done through certain quotas, through certain participations, I think we will soon come into one situation to see that there really is a layer of population that is not able to obtain textbooks and other curricula only through this country's participation and that there is a way to find a mechanism for full assistance that the state should provide or with the help of local self-government, etc. When it comes to quality assessment in Article 22, paragraph 14, which reads – the way and procedure of giving an expert assessment is prescribed by the minister. So, we believe that perhaps we should specify what principles and principles a professional assessment is taking place. This member deals only with procedures on how to choose certain commissions, how to handle an expert assessment, and that the overall content and method of evaluation is left to the minister to process, manner and content of the expert assessment. I think this deserves a different approach. Perhaps we should consider whether it is possible now or in some next step to define what it is that should contain essentially one professional assessment. That's very important for what the contents of the textbooks are. Finally, when it comes to this law, I would suggest on behalf of the SPS something else that doesn't have to be introduced here into the law through some amendment, or through a member. It is possible to do so through a sublegal act, and first to standardize textbook formats, i.e. to be the same format, e.g. A4, which fucks up the press. Secondly, the textbooks are printed on equally high - quality offset paper, not on a very difficult container. Workbooks, or what the components of the textbook can also be printed on cheaper paper. In addition to making such a textbook easier and cheaper, it is easier and easier to fill out textbooks, that is, these work materials and the component is on an offset paper that is much easier than on a corrugated paper. This way, the children would be relieved of the burden. I watched with my children, but also with others that when they load ranches with books, with work notebooks, with other teaching means, then they almost associate me with Marines or pedestrians who load themselves with such a great burden that it is indeed a great sin and a great burden for those children. So besides this, we certainly have this to advocate saving at all levels. Perhaps with cheaper textbooks, more children could be included through a free subsidisation program if they are printed on this cheaper paper that is easier. Of course, it can be through a sublegal act, but also through a tender to terms, but let this be our thinking subject for thinking when making these decisions when printing textbooks. When it comes to the Law on Higher Education, it was, to remind, adopted in 2005 whose application began in 2006. This law assumed the introduction of the Bologna system of teaching, the creation of new study programmes, the change in the way of teaching, new textbooks, the more frequent examination of students' knowledge, the more active role of teachers and students, the clearly defined process of accreditation of higher education institutions, etc. However, in 2008, KONUS, the University Conference and the National Council for Higher Education estimated that the number of students who scored 60 points in the September test period at universities in RS was on average 20-30%, which questioned the survival of the higher education system at that time. Therefore, both the KONUS and the National Council for Higher Education, with the support of student organisations, have proposed amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which made the Ministry of Education propose these amendments at that time, which prescribes a smaller number of points for enrolment in the coming school year as a condition for maintaining and obtaining the status of students in the budget. However, the problems of this species have not stopped, so this continued in 2010, in 2012. Of course, I would not now be dealing with details of what was changed then, but in order to achieve competition one moment to obtain student status on the budget, a solution has been adopted to rank students by the number of points and the average rating within the quota of higher education institutions. The number of deadlines was increased, but in the same style and the same way continued in 2012. Then we had changes and additions in 2013, so in 2014 and of course it wasn't just these things on the agenda, but we still have to be realistic and say that there is still one tendency to keep the status quo, the situation when it comes to the number of points and number of test deadlines. So we need to be in our policy further, especially us from the ruling coalition more consistent in order to change things somehow through a more consistent policy that will make our higher education part of the European space of higher education. It must be imperative, and if we want to be a respectable part of the European space for higher education, we have to follow one such policy and we have to have such an imperative that we assume and come to a greater number of points and be a smaller number of test deadlines and simply create one mile, one such way of thinking and building up such awareness that through one more persistent, consistent work we get to the result. I don't think that, of course, when we talk about this, if we were simply watching, we could criticise all governments in the past, and we also had Minister of Education Zarko Obradovic, we could criticise other ministers who led education and now Verbic with this proposal, etc., but it's not the point. We know universities have their own autonomy. On the other hand, they can't go in a line of less resistance and an academic community, which means both teachers and students, etc. They must put themselves in a position to be part of what needs to be a wider community and that it is imperative that we be respectable in that European high school space. Therefore, frequent amendments to the law have shown the need for the academic community to be more responsible in this regard and we should go in that direction. However, through this we do not need, there is another angle again, it is not one general assessment that our higher education and our universities are going through this line of less resistance and avoiding obligations, avoiding what the principles of the Bologna Process are, etc. On the other hand, we have bright examples of good results shown at universities, and here our MP, Zarko Obradovic, stated that in 2012, Belgrade University is among the 500 best universities on the Shanghai list. In 2013, we were among the 400 best. In 2011, students of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade took first place in the robotics contest in Istanbul. In 2011, FON students were the first in Europe, and the third in the world to solve the problem by method – case studies. Faculty of Law students were also winners in the field of media law at Oxford, etc. So these changes and additions should be, I think, limited duration. We already need to think about how we should go about finding certain mechanisms and implementing a policy that will bring us closer to what is appropriate in the European area of higher education. If we do not do so, then we will work for the benefit of our damage both as a state and as a society and, of course, great harm will be suffered by representatives of the young generation. Anyway, what I've been saying is one thought that hopefully will contribute, if not at this point, then in the next steps that will make us all come to a better solution together. I also said at the beginning, every outing in front of this National Assembly with a proposal for a new law or amendments and additions to assumptions is a better one and we always support it. Of course we'll support all three laws this time. So the SPS parliamentary group will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33567	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic, and let Ljubisa Stojmirovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Mr. Verbic, Mr. Shuvakov, welcome to you too, have long since been here in the Assembly. Today, gentlemen, we are discussing education, all the education system subsystems in our Republic. We National MPs of the New Party and in the Assembly advocate one position that the education system is one of the most important segments of the state. Dear gentlemen, we have also written this in one program, which we have called - a reform program of the education system, which I once again recommend for reading and Minister Verbić and his assistant Mr. Shuvakov. Gentlemen, more ancient writers have announced one beautiful thought, one appropriate thought, that of all the things a young man has faced since childhood education is one of the most important. That's why I think special attention, first of all, is for us MPs to focus on discussing the educational proposals of the law. For our government, respected gentlemen Members of Parliament, and for Minister Verbic, the minister in charge of the field of education, education is, as far as I am aware from their actions, considered a side issue. Our minister of education, as far as I understand his actions in the Assembly and otherwise, he views education as a budgetary burden and unnecessary cost, respected gentlemen, and the progressive majority in this National Assembly, today Mr Orlic, but I also see Professor Stojmirović, followed by the minister in such, in my court, by inappropriate action, and here is evidence of this position, respected gentlemen and Mr Verbić. So, the Ministry wants to discuss the preparation and issue of textbooks and we are witnessing it today, because it contains this Law on textbooks, but the minister, as far as I am aware, does not want to discuss the most important issues of the textbook, Mr Verbić, about the quality of textbooks, about the teaching and tactical standards of textbooks, respected gentlemen. The bill is being prepared, ready to prepare and issue, and for the most important issues for textbooks for elementary and high school, for which parents are most interested, the minister does not show interest here. It's another piece of evidence. Instead of giving the minister the most serious attention to the most important issues in the field of education, the proposal for a textbook law has served as a cause for certain scandals, gentlemen. First, two months ago, a bill was withdrawn, the day ahead of the assembly's scheduled session on the bill. Afterwards, intriguing stories were launched, gentlemen, about the physical attack on Mr. Shuvakov in connection with the withdrawal of the bill. Minister Verbić, here, Mr. Shuvakov is here, answer us finally whether these things are related, who physically attacked Mr. Shuvakov and by whose order, Minister Verbić? I think it's your duty, when you came to the National Assembly today, to answer that question. Third proof, gentlemen. We have a bill on amendments to the Law on Higher Education, and in a year and three months it is the second proposal to amend the Law on Higher Education. The first concerned technical issues, primarily accreditation, respected gentlemen, and this concerns the possibility of the number of deadlines, defining the number of test deadlines being transferred from the level of content of the Law on Higher Education and leaving it to universities. It's, gentlemen, giving up responsibility. It's giving up the idea that in our country's higher education system, we have one order. We in the New Party propose five deadlines, January, February, June, July, September, to define the calendar of exam deadlines at the beginning of the year, so that every student knows that. Minister Verbić, I beg you, when you are in the Assembly, it is not appropriate for you to defend yourself, members and members of your team, or for this progressive majority in the National Assembly by your silence, Minister Verbic. Well, Mr. Zivkovic has asked you a few questions, and you haven't answered any of them, except for Mr. Orlic's question on behalf of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33569	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33570	Thank you, Madam President. Just in case we didn't understand each other, it's probably not, because it's usually not. Usually it turns out that someone doesn't understand something just when they don't purposely. Of course, today we haven't talked about any cost to budget and education in this regard. In case someone didn't understand, we were talking today about bill proposals that at least one of them deserved to be properly and properly analyzed here today by anyone who answers the word. If for nothing else, then because of the abundance of good things he carried with him and what he could witness today anyone who followed this debate and said it was even indirectly, if we count those who wanted to criticize, what's good about it, anyone who answered for the word today. As for the mention of the advanced majority, I don't know exactly what we've had in mind. As far as I was able to get out, the only thing that was true in the previous address was that something was said by ancient writers. As far as the scandal is concerned, we're not dealing with them today. Take another look at what the topic of the debate is, distinguished colleagues, and if possible say a word on the subject of what is on the agenda today. As far as intriguing stories are concerned, absolutely no one mentioned them today, nor does there need to spoil this debate in any way by wanting to turn this into any kind of duel or series of replicas right now. But as far as responsibility is concerned, there is one thing I can say, the Serbian Progressive Party has taken responsibility for years before it was able to organise most. Unfortunately, some others continue to learn responsibilities, although they have had decades to overcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33571	Thank you. The word is Dr Ljubisa Stojmirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33572	I'm looking for the same replica, I've been called.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33573	Personally? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33574	I'm surprised by the performance of my colleague Pavicevic. I understand, we can oppose attitudes and discuss them. Zivkovic would not surprise me, he proved to be rude by calling him a colleague of the cattle, but his colleague Pavicevic threatened the minister and us here, most of this progressive one, really surprised me. I'm willing to face our views, so if something's wrong with what I'm saying, there's no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33575	The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Verbić, who continues to defend your silence, are three things now that I want to announce in the replica to Professor Stojmirovic and one part to Mr Orlic. I am glad that this ancient thought, written in his famous "Laws" Plato, remains remembered here among some MPs. Plato said that education is the most important thing of all the things we've been seeing since we were little feet. But I wanted to say here, dear gentlemen, that this thought in its action is not followed by a minister in charge of education in our Republic, nor by a forwarding majority who, in this kind of action, supports such a minister, respected gentlemen. Mr Stojmirovic, I didn't threaten anyone. I may have entered a barbecue because education issues are always of particular interest to me, dear gentlemen, and especially when we come to higher education and I, I think for a reason, resent the minister and the progressive majority who follow him, when the minister in the year of three months finds time to change a law on higher education on the issues of accreditation, for the second time on the number of deadlines examined, but in an inappropriate way, I think, and there is no time to react to the flood of plagiarisms that we are facing, here, for a year and a half. Well, we suggested that there be a bill here to supplement the law that adopts academic congratulation, gentlemen. We have submitted 31 amendments to the proposal for a textbook law. Two amendments to the Amendment to the Law on Higher Education and I look forward to, gentlemen, an amendment debate, Mr. Orlic, to explain each of these 33 amendments in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33577	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33578	Very interesting that some science can explain why what happened earlier and why my colleague Stojmirovic mentioned me. I never mentioned him in my speech, nor did I ever mention him for this year and a half, nor did I say anything about him, good or bad. So, his comparison that it's weird how Pavicevic behaves, and it wouldn't surprise him that I said something like that because I'm proven rude because I called my colleague cattle a very difficult structure. I didn't call any of my colleagues cattle. The livestock was an expression for a value court that was concerned with the atmosphere at the time in parliament and a man who was in parliament and was not an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33579	Zivkovic, I beg you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33580	I want to explain to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33581	You don't have to explain it that way. I ask you to contribute that this debate does not go the wrong way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33582	That's why it's still completely unclear what a respected professor should have said. Is it a staunch hypocrite who isn't the only one who tends to go around and pat on the side of the opposition MPs when they say something that he thinks about his colleagues or has something to do with the state of business of a higher school where he teaches, or maybe it has something to do with a number of employees in that school who have something to do with a fellow Member professor? I'm sorry that the man I was sure was a mistake in SNS confirmed that he wasn't an SNS error.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33583	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33584	As far as this remarks from fellow Zivkovic are concerned, I don't see what Belgrade Business School has to do with this. I work at the Belgrade Business School. There are my colleagues who are mostly people in place, and the business of Belgrade Business School is subject to all checks, and whoever is in charge of this should check. I don't see that there's anything wrong with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33585	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33586	Just because of that repeated remark about what it was like for the advanced majority. I suppose it was the SNS MPs, if that's what the one who said it wanted to say, that she was following. To be exact, she agrees with the minister's position, the truth, several times, and regarding some of the laws that came here by the one who re-provoked the replica, probably decided to deal with it. So, we agree. Why? We've said it more than once. If we really have to say it again, we'll repeat it, it's not controversial, but let's think about it together, how much it suits us, how much we contribute to having repeated discussions about something that really doesn't deserve some extra time. We exchanged words about this enough times, yes. I think we've even understood whether or not it's necessary, or whether or not there are already mechanisms in our law that should serve the purpose of what is proposed by God to these proposals, and these proposals are, and we've said that enough times already, simply bad. Bad. If we were to ignore what they're bad, we'd face the fact that they're superfluous, and it's all very well understood, but, unfortunately, it seems like it's a chance to resist the opportunity to be in the big shot anyway. For the information that 31 amendments have been submitted, thank you, received, as it is said, noted. To say we can't wait for a debate, maybe even share that impression.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33587	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33588	One more sentence, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33589	Excuse me, Mr. Orlic, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33590	One more sentence. It's got nothing to do with this right now, but it has to do with the fact that some grades here used to be, and we all know what they were, they were spoken at the expense of someone who found themselves in this room, and it's not...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33591	Thank you, Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33592	Is that a higher education? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33593	Mr. Grandmother, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33594	It was hypocritical, Mr. Chairman, when, in a five-minute presentation, it was as an argument against the government of the Republic of Serbia, against Mr. Verbic said that the Law on Higher Education, imagine, had been in the assembly procedure two or three times a year. Then it is said in the same five minutes—and why did you withdraw the law on textbooks and that it was a scandal? Well, you know, law-proposing is also a job of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the withdrawal of the law from the assembly procedure is part of congregation practice. It's happening and it's going to happen in the future and it's not about any scandals. But it is a scandal when a lack of argument slips into the field of private, when it comes to private what Mr Stojmirovic is doing, who has more academic internships than how many times your colleague has passed a higher education institution, more students than you have and what you will ever have in support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, more exams than you can imagine how many exams you can have. It is hypocritical to ask for the subject matter to be discussed in this room to be contained in the textbook. I think what needs to bring us together, like a joint action and a joint task, is why 94% of the education budget goes to pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33595	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33596	That's right for years. And with the budget, the way it is, 94% goes into consumption, and where's the development?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33597	Thank you, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33598	It's something that has to bring us together, not mentioning the private life of a man who's one of the best in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33599	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Pavicevic, I listened carefully, no one mentioned your name and last name, and you all had the right to reply and to say what you think you should say. I think it should be over here now, so we can get back to the debate, so I'd like to give my word to the MP, Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go, Mrs. Jerkov. Mr Stojmirovic, you had no exposure? I'm sorry, the president chaired, I thought you had a prior exposure, so I'm sorry. Here, you have a word. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33600	At first, I would take the opportunity to say that the committee in charge voted at its meetings on these draft laws on amendments to the law and that it decided after the vote that these proposals would be accepted and that they would propose it to the National Assembly. It is perfectly normal for us to have different attitudes and to be able to discuss these views, that is, conflicting opinions. I am very happy, and I believe that the minister shares my opinion, which is what this law and other laws will not be voted on unanimously because something would not be right if everyone thought the same thing. Even on the board, we've made a decision like this most of the time. As far as these laws are concerned, I can tell you, there was a lot we didn't agree on, say, about the number of deadlines tested. There were even talks and proposals for the test deadlines to be almost every month, there was also a proposal for the deadline to be set by one limit setting minimum deadlines, there was a proposal to be five and more deadlines. So it's normal for us to have different visions and have different suggestions. Someone's gonna love it, somebody's not gonna like it. Most likely students won't be satisfied with either four or five, or maybe even 10 deadlines. It is a pleasure of this struggle here in parliament, a conflict of positions and opposition, especially when it comes to education, our views should not be opposed in a way that the opposition is trying to undo everything that the position suggests. I think education is very important, and that we should try to find the best model, the model that will be in the interest of generations that come and all citizens of Serbia. Someone just said it at the beginning, says – the economy is an alpha and an omega of everything, and everything else comes as an upgrade. I'm aware that everyone today appreciates this material value more than spiritual values, but still, I can't agree with this, education is still the foundation of everything. We must pay attention to the education system and try to create such an educated system that will bring our younger generations into one state with which they will be satisfied, where we too will be satisfied. It's not just enough to have knowledge, but to know that knowledge must be both responsible and moral. All of us working in the education system must also be responsible and moral. Regarding the Law on textbooks, I would like to remind you that by 2003 in Serbia the topic of textbooks was never becoming a question, schools were working normally, textbooks were provided every 1 September for all children without difference and prices were appropriated to parents' paying powers. Since 2003, the Institute for textbooks is no longer the only publisher of textbooks, under a parallel of better quality, lower price, the state introduces practice to publish textbooks and every natural person registering the company in the APR. Afterwards, he had a situation where a monopoly position on the market instead of the Institute took over the firm "Clet", perhaps because their management was much more adaptive, compared to the management of the school for publishing textbooks, but now there are some problems. In the field, the model of achieving financial results looks like this. It went into an unfavourable struggle to conquer teachers who have otherwise been given the opportunity to choose a textbook that the parent or state will pay for according to their intent and personal procedure. For that choice, the privateer and the teacher are agreed in four eyes, and then formally called so-called. A teacher's activity. Parents and states in this kind of business between privates are not involved in any way, and if only they pay for it. Private publishers have chosen which subject they will print their textbooks for, since profit is the private goal only, they have opted for the items that have the largest circulations. They don't care about low circulation textbooks because they're a direct financial loss. This job is entrusted to a public publisher. Those were the problems we've been facing so far. The ministry has decided that through this new proposal for a textbook law, it will try to solve some of these problems. Is all this going to work out? Probably not. Do we need to applaud the new bill at this point and guarantee that this proposal will be much, much better than it has been so far? He needs to be moderate, but he doesn't need to be criticized. Time will show whether the promises of this law were real, and those in charge of it will assess whether we did well or not. I hope that this law will live in practice and that it will provide much better solutions than it has been in the past. One of the bigger problems is corruption. How do you solve corruption? We're probably not going to solve it this way that we're trying to get out of this problem. The moment we realize the possibility of employees in education having incomes that they can normally live on, there will be far less corruption than there is now. In the realization of textbooks, it should be kept in mind that this textbook must preserve both tradition and history, language and letter. We must not forget that, and we must not let textbooks be made to those whose sole goal is profit. I know that the principle of most theorists today is that profit is one of the most important goals, but there are other goals that we need to respect. We can't let profit be the main motive of those who do this job. I hope that in the debate on amendments it will be much easier to answer concrete things and believes that we will find the best solutions that will satisfy both appetites, so that in the end we will have a law that will be in the interest of students, because they are the most important segment in this business, as well as parents and society in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33601	Thank you, Dr Stoimirovich. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As Mrs Comic has already said, neither I nor she nor the other DS MPs will be able to support the proposed laws, today there are three, two, as Mr Verbic said on the Committee last week, very small with minimal changes, and here we can agree that it may be physically about small laws, i.e. laws that only have two or three members who are changing. But it's essentially very important changes, and we can't say at all that these changes are small, even though these two laws are very small. When it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, it does seem to us to be one of your transfers of responsibility from the Ministry to independent higher education institutions, or universities. When we spoke on the Committee, so someone mentioned that it could be a source of various abuses, it was said that it was understood that people working in education, especially in higher education institutions, were some extremely moral people and there was no speech to try to abuse it. However, I do not really have any ideals that people in any profession are more moral and honest than others and that these people who run higher education institutions are very inclined to abuse everything that can be done to them, convenient for abuse, and we ourselves have had the opportunity to adopt in this assembly an authentic interpretation of the law that was very clear, that one person cannot be a dean more than twice in the same higher education facility. There's a crystal clear provision that we've still found ways for some people to abuse. Now I'm asking you, Mr. Verbic, and I'm really asking you to get involved in the debate so this would be a debate, because it probably seems like we're sitting here, to give this building some content and fill in some form in this-- how many independent higher education institutions, say, to attract students to say that they have exam deadlines every month. Well, then it will be noted that out of these test deadlines four of the test deadlines are regular, and for these other eight test deadlines are paid many more prices for passing exams and that the costs of students will be much higher. How will this allow the mobility of our students within Serbia, not only to talk about other colleges? What does it mean now that someone from a university where he had one trial period, because according to this, as a university is proposed, can be defined as having one test deadline, from one transition to a university that has 17 exam deadlines? Do you even see the possibility that universities abuse this incredible freedom that you gave them which by nature things must be the ministry's jurisdiction? We propose our amendments several ways. There may also be five test deadlines, there may be some range of test deadlines, there may be four test deadlines, just don't transfer responsibility to universities from yourself. I believe that you are sick every year of students coming and asking for test deadlines that you always want more, but it is simply not the way to solve this problem, as you will say – we are no longer in charge. The ministry must be responsible for these things and they must be regulated by law. When it comes to the second of these small laws, or the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, we do not trust you when you say that it is not in any way related to the announced reduction in the number of public administration employees. I don't know how many times we have to say that they're not the problem of state administration and they're not the problem of public sector teachers, nor are they the problem of receiving them, nor is it their number, the public sector's problem is public enterprises, the public sector's problem is public agencies, there's the problem and the pay, there's the problem and the number of employees, and these are the topics that we're discussing at the same session, absolutely not treated. How will this apply to people who will obtain both pension conditions in March or April? Does this mean that some professor will retire in April and a new teacher will come in May to evaluate the children, complete their grades and finish their school year with them? Where does it say that these people will stay for the rest of the school year? We were on the board talking, so someone said, "It's understood." That would be very nice if through the laws something were to be understood. Unfortunately, nothing can be understood. Especially when it comes to education. So we suggest that just as you suggest that the provisions of the old law be deleted, we suggest that the provisions of this law that you are proposing today be deleted, that we keep those solutions that are already in force, that teachers who meet the conditions for retirement, that they be kept until the end of the school year, because it is indeed an extremely unfortunate solution in March or April, or may change teachers in schools. You are not convincing when you say that it has nothing to do with the announced layoffs because you were talking about 1,000 extra educators, at the time of the strike, you were talking about 10,000 educational workers a few months ago, I think the relationship between the duration of the strike and the number of persons employed by educational workers who are excess, and the Democratic Party remains in that they are not the problem of the public sector educational workers, but they know the problem of the public sector, and the law on the dismissal of educational workers and not those from public enterprises is also one of the points of the agenda at this session. Now to come to the greatest law, the most extensive law within this set, the Bookbooks Act. We will not support him as Mrs. Comic said. There are two things when we talk about textbooks. These are the availability of textbooks and the quality of textbooks. We believe that this bill, as you have suggested, treats the textbook's availability in a very bad way, and does not treat at all the quality of the textbook, which is a check and more important topic than the availability of textbooks. Before I say anything, I think it would be convenient for you to hear about whether you have now given us this bill of law of your own free will or under someone's pressure? I'm asking that because, in your own words, you pulled the previous bill under pressure. What happened now in the meantime? Have you reached an agreement with those pressurers or have they stopped putting pressures on them, and now they no longer have any problems with the bill you're sending, but it really is necessary for you to answer what happened to those pressures in the meantime? Just so we can see if we're talking to you the way we need to talk or say some of the things that pressurers expect of you? So, when it comes to the availability of textbooks, we cannot support this bill. Article 9 that deals most with this says that the government can, in accordance with the resources available to the Republic of Serbia's budget, make a decision on financing purchases and allocations to students who are unable to purchase them, and then the government can decide on funding or co-financing of the preparation or acquisition of the NRA textbooks and the government can decide on funding textbooks for students with developmental interference. It can do anything, actually means it doesn't have to. Available resources, I think that anyone who has monitored the adoption of any budget in the Republic of Serbia in the past few years, usually are not the means that are defined for education and education, and I don't think that we can be satisfied that the government can do anything, and it can't be done in particular because this current government has shown very strange choices where it will save, so probably, we will have reason to believe that it will be textbooks for poor children, for national minorities, or for children with disabilities in development, and if we have no reason to believe we don't have any guarantee that there will be. So, as far as availability is concerned, we feel that this goal is not met. When it comes to the quality of the textbook, it is especially important to talk about it, because the procedure by which the quality of the textbook is measured, according to which the textbook is determined, is very detailed, but we here in this law have no description of it, no criteria as to how this quality of the textbook is determined. I don't think there's a People's MP who spoke, and I apologize if some of them did, who didn't agree that in that list of reviewers, there would obviously be people who don't have enough experience, since you predict that these people have two years' experience in the profession. You know, someone who's going to approve the textbook would still have to have a little more than two years of experience in the profession is this textbook, it's a little important teaching tool from being approved by someone with two years of experience in the profession. So we're going to have textbooks that are going to be approved by some people most MPs here agree to aren't very professional. We have no standard in which these textbooks will be evaluated. We don't have a procedure for how they'll be followed after their quality. That's something, otherwise what the Anti-Corruption Agency warns about. Generally, the problem is the lack of criteria, not only when it comes to measuring the quality of textbooks, but also all other things. We have no criteria when it comes to determining the maximum price of textbooks. We have no criteria when it comes to the way schools rank textbooks. We have no criteria when the ministry in the absence of professional staff in the office hires people on the list of graders. We don't have criteria for such important things and procedures, that we simply can't talk about a quality proposal because of a lack of it. We have a rather strange relationship between publishers and authors. The author, I think, is dissuasive to the extent that publishers are given the opportunity to change the text of the author without his permission. All those things that the publisher must deliver when applying for the textbook could be prevented by, say, delivering some written consent to the author, that, in the event of a need, its text should be changed, etc. We've also given amendments that support it. The deadlines are too short. The fact that the appraisers do not know who the author of the text they are reviewing does not mean anything because they know who the publisher who submitted the text to the reviewer is, and I think that the famous corruption you're all talking about is not even coming to the relationship author – the reviewer, but the editor – the reviewer, because the author often has very little or at least not as much as there is a publisher in case his textbook is selected. I think they're really humiliating these illustrations of buying teachers. Several MPs have already talked about it, because I have not seen a bill that would thus humiliate those to whom it applies, except this bill. What is ultimately equally immeasurable is the fact that the coordination body of national councils has given a large number of objections, believing that this law does not comply with the law on national councils of national minorities, i.e. that many of their powers are being ignored. I think we should work on the quality of the textbook, work on the availability of textbooks. We must have guarantees that these textbooks will indeed be printed, because this way, that the Republic of Serbia can and does not have to do it really does not mean much and we cannot talk about some great availability. It seems that many MPs, including you, Mr Minister, when you publicly praised the previous bill a few months ago, you have to find ways to explain to us how now completely different solutions can be as best, just as they were a few months ago, but that would be possible only if you get involved in the debate, because this really doesn't seem to be called a debate. We talk more, and you listen, or at least we hope that the debate on amendments will be different.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33603	I thank you, Miss Jerkov. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33604	Thank you, Mr. Becic. This topic of university autonomy is somehow always convenient to draw a line like this where it should be, what it should be, and what it shouldn't be. In my opinion, what programs are supposed to be part of autonomy, what finance is not supposed to be part of autonomy, unless, of course, it's a private university. The question of the number of deadlines in question does not seem to me to be a question that should be in the jurisdiction of the administration. It's part of every university's programme and every university that holds on to itself will see it endure as much as possible, to bring its principles into line with what are international principles, how universities should function. I'll remind you what the limit between autonomy and whose job it is, and what nobody's job is, in case of something we had at the beginning of last, just finished, school year, and when a college in Belgrade was blocked for eight weeks. For eight weeks, students asked to change the number of deadlines examined and as far as I can remember, they didn't change. The students also asked that the tuition be more transparent and not charge them taxes that were not foreseen and I think they succeeded because the request was completely legitimate. But what's more important in that college story, which has been blocked for eight weeks, is what members of the academic community have been doing for the eight weeks. So how much they tried to solve the problem, how many different model proposals they made, how much they interacted with students themselves, right in that college where non-violent communication was taught most, where others were just teaching themselves how to solve problems in an unviolent way. There was no proposal at the time, and everyone expected the ministry to solve the problem. And the problem was finally solved by Mr. Milovan Šuvaković and Mrs. Zorana Lužanin, by talking to both the university administration and the students, and once again, and once again, until the problem was solved. So, the Ministry of Education has not denied any moment of responsibility for what's going on at that university. And in the end, we solved the problem. We're not happy that we had to solve it, because we think that someone else should do it and that's exactly what university autonomy is about. However, we accept responsibility and solve problems. Just because we accept responsibility, we do the law just like we did the Bookbooks Act. The law on higher education that we now have and that changes to a piece is a law that has existed for many years and that has changed many times before us. We're not saying that we're perfectly satisfied with this law, and that's why we're starting to make a new law. So, that law has been going on for two months now, and if it's been working on for a year, like we did on textbooks, and if the result is about the same quality, as in this case, we'll be so pleased. So we have here in front of MPs a bill that has unusually great support for all stakeholders, and parents, and teachers and publishers, and states and numerous agencies and other ministries. Everyone gave a positive opinion, and this is the consequence of one approach to have as broad a consensus as possible and that all the controversial details are eventually exorcised. So we're not running away from the discussion. I'm sure we didn't shut up. In this year we haven't kept quiet many times, because if we had kept quiet, we wouldn't have gotten to this result that we have today, and this result I think is one qualitative shift compared to the previous law, and it's not just us, it's all those who participated in this process. It's been a year, but I think it was worth it. We are now discussing a new Law on Higher Education with both students and employees of higher education institutions. We're talking to other ministries. We also talk to scientific institutes that are sometimes part of the university, sometimes they're not, but we think they're important, too. So we are thinking about how much science and higher education should be integrated into. In the end, I am convinced, the result is to be as similar as here. We won't be silent many times again. Many will be angry again, but we will fight in the same way as we fought here and in the end I think we will be satisfied with the result and that is the only way to reach the new law on higher education. It is not possible to change the Law on Higher Education to a piece, it cannot be changed only from the ministry. We just need the consent of everyone. I think we're on our way. It's just this part that seems very interesting to me, and that's one replacement thesis that the previous law has been withdrawn under pressure. The law is not withdrawn under pressure, nor have I ever said it. The previous law was withdrawn because I asked for it. I suggested that the government withdraw the law just to ensure that the result was applicable. I can say that I was personally concerned about whether that bill could be converted, whether it would be applicable and whether it would have all the sublaws, whether we would provide a fund for all the textbooks we need. Now I can only be pleased to realize that the withdrawal and that it made sense, that now the agreement on this law is greater and that we have everything we wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33605	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. Excuse me, please, Mr. Pocurica... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica) Mr Pavicevic, in the presentation of Mr. Minister, not that I did not recognize you, but he did not mention you close enough to get a replica. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I recognized myself. If you recognize yourself, it's not enough. The point is, I didn't recognize you. Here you go, Dr. Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33606	Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're already moving away long into work and not taking any chances and not repeating what we've really said, I'm going to start in my story, commenting on the law from something or the way I haven't done it before, reading the explanation. However, I've also read the arguments, but this explanation for this law and the reasons for its adoption are the most said in fact in favor of why it was necessary to do so, why even by an emergency procedure, although it's not an emergency procedure, it's 2014 because when you realize that you have, how many 80 publishers, that sometimes publishers have one employee, and some houses have close to 300 employees, that they've all had in something, some proportional cake on the market, that children have come, and parents tell them that, yes, we have, you bought me English from this author, but I need another English, I need other mathematics, I need another workbook, etc. and these are the times the information that we have all heard and as MPs have been getting questions with our shoulders, because personally these times have passed us, most of us here or at least I have had problems here, with this Bologna process, what children do to us during their studies and what they do to those tens of thousands of doctors for which they no longer have a theme, they can't imagine how hyper production is, and a little, I condemn myself, we've alienated ourselves from this reality, even though we had information that the situation on the textbook market is not good. In order to be good, if the publisher could hire a reviewer, if the author had a name on the work material, and who was watching, if he could go to school and influence that in one classroom teacher or in one school, English teachers had two or three textbooks, to use each one, and how logical it was that children and parents would not object, when they came to a series of tests from a small graduation, when they no longer knew which textbooks would be asked which question, especially from those, if they were textbooks so-called. the general culture. What we are now getting through the bill, this kind of transparency, is starting with the fact that it will end up publicly putting an ad when it will be offered to publishers that on their own, they will take action to collect material from the authors, that some textbook will be issued, that it will be on the site of the names of people who will be declared by the commission as persons who will be reviewers and assessors of the work, but that the commission will not be on the site for each particular work, a certain degree of security is already there and there is a moment on which to eliminate possible influence and a corrupt moment, if it is known that a quality textbook with an electronic add-on remains, although I am being asked here in the towers to discuss with my colleagues, what this electronic supplement will mean more precisely. What I'm dealing with about the electronic supplement is a CD electronic medium in which the CD is inside the textbook you have now add some diagnostic methods, image techniques. As such, the written material cannot. Is he going to be the rank of some blog, "Wikipedia" or something that will enable a student or student to imitate a chemical reaction, to raise his interest in understanding the Pythagorean theorem better, so that every teacher or student will innovate it, or I don't understand every possible student, but I can see that it's developing, and it's likely that the acts of sublaw will be resolved. It is an innovation of good, but if this were to be created in the future as some basis for grading students' knowledge with the possible heterogeneity of access to different teachers' ambition – whether in assessing the tests that follow them in a small graduation might be in an unfair position for some who would get the very skills of teachers to force students, to understand more and better, that this creative knowledge would be better, that general reproductive knowledge would be better for them, etc. Just one curiosity, not that I'm against this idea, but I'm just curious about how it is imagined and which rank, which is the electronic supplement that is the newspaper and which is one of the quality guarantees of this approach. Of course, a direct guarantee of quality is an interview of an institution that is simply included in all segments of the authorisation of textbooks, quality monitoring, evaluation. Of course, the seat of the National Educational Council should be potentiated. He's a key mechanism that should trigger and that maybe itself, and if we don't have him now, he's coming out of some kind of relative conceit and relative inertity because we're still doing a serious task. This is a reform of one important segment of the educational process, and therefore all those who should be involved should be involved in order to reach the final goal. I've had some other rather unfortunate questions that may not be clear to me on my own. I don't know if it deserves whether, say, the interaction of publishers now, what will be the interaction of publishers and, say, potential people who are on the list of appraisers, can be expected because publishers will have a list of all those on the list because it's publicly published on the site, whether there's going to be a possibility of making such communication to get into something that we've had under the current law where he's engaged so-called. Resents and to be in some kind of hearing, which I have recorded to myself, these future authors or authors who are passing authors. It's always known when you do textbooks that are the authors that are usually passing. And now have the opportunity to simply be captivated by potentially expected quality publishing houses because the spacer narrows down. The fight for 5% of the market, when I saw what it was before, the effects of the previous law, I would support that previous law, the previous model, and that it was not withdrawn and returned to 5% or 11 members of the commission, etc. So this was really something to get to. This way I think we are, but it's living matter and it's going to change. If you can see it, we'll change it. We're gonna have to change the laws because we really don't have any other way. I want to go to higher education right now, and we're changing that thing all the time. Personally, I can't speak for the party, I am someone who advocates the review, let me say, Bologna. I was talking about abolishing Bologna so it might have seemed unserious, who am I to talk about, but the revision of Bologna, the revision of what our children are waiting for, the revision of the individuality of autonomy that bears the seal of individual and collective organs and commissions that colleges are going to make. It's something I'm a witness, and that's something you'll probably be writing the law, if you're talking to CONUS, if you really have free-minded students who aren't scared, who are allowed to speak and heterogeneous groups from Serbia, you'll hear how far that can lead, that within a week you can have three exams scheduled, and the change of terms and terms. If you give it to an autonomy college, will it provide students with at least seven days until exams or not. Will, it's his autonomy again. There is no prejudge here and the need for such a segment to be put in order. So I think autonomy is too much, that it's something that the state is very funding, that the state should ask itself and the outcome of the study is very important to the state. The state is worth it, its system is valued on the basis of the outcome of the study and we agree for ten years not to achieve the Bologna Process but to have 48 points because what it is different from what it is through the law established that nothing is right for the old education system and that students are lagging at two, three, five or how many exams and that they are two or three years late. What is this? How late is this, and then another concession, and who knows how much more? I expect the revision, the amendment to the new law, will not be cosmetic. Keep something ibolonjski, whether it's points or this or that, but give the point that children have time to learn. Don't give individuality to making points, colloquium, bus force, blocks, who knows what they call it. Before the oral exam they have five, six test obligations and an automatic failure on one deadline means two estimates less. Well, that Constitutional Court has to bring it down. Why is that? Because the statutes don't read the Ministry, they read the university. There's no such thing as academic congratulation. They absolutely don't know about it, and they don't care about it, because some of them who were more than once dean will now become rectors, etc., although they were unfounded three times consecutively, say, deans. So, what I'm saying is that the revision, that the changes, until we get to the right extent of things, are necessary and should never be considered pessimistic, but should be designed as much as possible if in one act, so that we can change more, so that we don't always, in October of the month, before the expected student rebellion, bring change. Otherwise, this is logical, what the colleges were looking for, that's what they got. Now here are the students on their necks, so let them give them the number of deadlines they need, when they've made their study system catastrophic, that children really can't get to pass exams, or they'll have to give all exams, three or four exams in ten days, which is impossible, and that's why children are looking for deadlines. Of course, I have no comment about this part about getting a pension basis, it's one rational decision. Of course, I, like other party members, will support these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33607	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33608	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Verbic, a member of one of the most inefficient governments in the world, certainly you are the key or the screw and contribute to that ineffectiveness. Mr. Pokurica just said one important thing, one great truth, you sent students to the door of the professors. Instead of your window to protest the deadlines, they will now protest in front of the deans and the rectorate. The only thing I don't understand is why my colleague Poscurica is voting for this law. You, Mr. Verbich, are afraid of students and students. That's why you're changing the law that makes students drive under the window of the dean and the rector. You don't want to take responsibility, you want to give autonomy. It's not this, Mr. Verbich, autonomy. You don't understand university autonomy. So it's not the university's autonomy that students ask college for something they consider to be their right. The state needs to set the frames, Mr. Verbich. What happens if one college decides to have, say, eight deadlines tested? Of course, students from other universities will ask their deans, sold, students sold, that their college has eight deadlines. Of course there will be those who will ask for nine deadlines and so unlimited. Lectures and exams will come up, Mr. Verbich. You know that well. You used to understand that question well, however, you are now in the state, but you do not understand, Mr. Verbic, the state in the right way. It's not the state that you're fighting teachers and students. This law does just that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33609	Mr. Veselinovic, I'd just like to ask you to insult the minister a little less.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33610	When it comes to the Law on textbooks, Mr Verbic, the Turnover Movement, but I think a significant number of people in Serbia who do not have to pay for their children's education, advocates the availability of education. You, by the Law on textbooks, as it is, make it impossible for people of a weaker material condition, and those are two thirds in Serbia, to educate their children, because you say – they may be able to participate in the co-financing of textbooks. What is the guarantee of people with small or small assets that they will be able to buy textbooks and that they will be able to teach children at all? What is the guarantee of students' parents that they will be able to pay ten exam deadlines, which in some colleges will probably exist because they will all try not to protest? The success of the dean in yours will be which dean can give more test deadlines. Mr Verbić, we expected from you and from dual education that students would learn that after completed studies they could be involved in the production process, to be useful to society, to be, as they have been so far, wanted experts in the country and abroad. You are going to lower the criteria that were high, but not from you, but long ago in the Republic of Serbia. In the former SFRY we had good students, i.e. good engineers, doctors, lawyers, and in this way you create conditions to lose, too, Mr. Verbic, by giving demagogue laws to universities, and in fact by pushing students to college leadership, to their conflict, you actually did that... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33611	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has the People's MP Dr. Milet Poscurica, replica, two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33612	Mr. Chairman, I was obviously not well understood. I did say how it was quoted, but as part of the fact that the degree of autonomy that we have assigned and given the right to in-coherent and collective management bodies to bring their internal acts, which are statutes, as well as the curricula and programmes that regulate them, and also the number of test deadlines, and especially those in which they can crush three or four exams in one month in five days or six. It's their own fault and the students have nothing to look for at the Ministry's door to sort it out. In principle, the ministry has given four examinations, as it was given, and when it was in practice, it is autonomy for which it is very longing, except for financial, current managers and in-coherent management bodies and their support bodies, the auxiliary bodies, often of the chosen like people, etc. So it has nothing to do with politicizing anymore, it's something else entirely. They make such decisions and it happens on the ground, so they ask the Ministry for an opinion to add a deadline more, a deadline less. Let them deal with it on their own, because they have introduced it themselves and finally meet the need and sense of real and essential autonomy even in that part. Who's going to stand up? After all, that law was passed at the time when you brought it. I was against it back then, and now I am for fundamental changes to this approach to the Law on Higher Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33613	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. For clarification, you got a replica because you mentioned a name and a last name. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33614	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would first like to mention amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. There are minimal changes in the fulfillment of the agreement that existed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and students on the number of test deadlines. I do not think that the number of test deadlines should be in the law itself, as is not in the laws of most European countries, but rather colleges themselves should make a decision on this. It represents the autonomy of the university. I heard that the previous speaker mentioned on several occasions that now it would go to harm as students, deans and all sorts of things. However, none of them complained, it seems that the only man who has had objections to these changes is counterpart Janko Veselinovic. I think the Deans should also take responsibility for making a decision on the number of deadlines examined at the colleges themselves, especially considering that each university has its specifics. Of course, it's not the same whether it's a social, natural or artistic college. When I was in college, I graduated from the Faculty of Philology in Belgrade, we had five exam deadlines -- January, April, June and September, and I think it's an optimal number of deadlines for the university. Of course, that does not mean that for some other colleges it would be appropriate. I don't think there should be an exaggeration in the number of test deadlines, since there are always students who in some irresponsible way approach their obligations, so they learn, say, 20% of the material and go on the test deadlines constantly in the hope of getting the desired questions, without wanting to learn the other 80%. So I think that there should be a measure in the decisions on how many test deadlines there will be, of course, colleges are the ones who need to decide on that. We faced college strikes every year because of the number of deadlines tested. I think it's supposed to be the subject of a deal between students and college dean. It's a good thing there's been these amendments to the law, because I think it's a good thing it's only one step in further changes in higher education. We heard from the minister and the announcement that he is preparing a new law and I fully welcome it. On the other hand, there is also a whole new law on textbooks, which has been fundamentally working for more than a year, the law has been the subject of public debate. All the interested factors in society have participated with their suggestions, there have been a number of changes in the law itself, so I think today's proposal that is certainly the best of all the proposals that have been so far. I think it's good, and we could hear also insinuations from some representatives of the opposition whether this bill today might be the result of some pressure. I think it's a good thing the minister was about two months ago I said there was an attempt at pressure. The fact that he spoke publicly about it is that we have today a law that actually puts the centre of interest of students, and not of any others, nor of publishers, nor of anyone else, shows that no one can influence the government of the Republic of Serbia, nor of the country or abroad. No one can influence this, in terms of law-making, and the very interest of students in such an important law is most important. I think this is a question of the Law on textbooks and a question of national interest, since our children learn from these textbooks and these are generations that are yet to come and take responsibility in this society. More transparency in the choice of textbooks is very good, since we could also hear from the Anti-Corruption Agency that during the very process of approving textbooks it was possible then to announce more corruption, that now the more transparent way of the whole process made it impossible. What I would like to point out in this law, which is very important, most importantly for parents and students, is the concern of the home budget of the family, because certainly there is a maximum price for textbooks, as well as the fact that the textbook set can be even smaller, just because we all met up with situations that there are some textbooks in the textbook set that were not used, which were not necessary. Also, the scope of textbooks themselves is important to be clearly precise. It's not just that it affects the price of the textbook itself, I think we should keep in mind that all these textbooks are in ranches that are on our children's backs, which are really heavy. We should welcome these decisions and what has been implemented in the draft of this law. Also, I think it's good that the choice of textbooks is done every four years, not only because students can definitely inherit each other and in such a way as to save in the home budget, but I think it's good and because there are really no such innovations that require that new textbooks with new content be issued every year. I think a four-year period is an optimal period that you suggested. Also, the electronic supplements that are to be found in the textbooks are hopefully the way to electronic textbooks. I think, if you were to include the students themselves in making this law, it would be them who would insist on it because they take their responsibilities much easier when they get in electronic format. For them, it is more acceptable because for them everything is now inevitable to work on computers and to use the modern means that exist with us. Also, textbooks need to meet students' needs in the 21st century. I think the textbooks represent one component. There are certainly important teachers and students and their motivation to acquire new knowledge. In the end, I would like to mention one subject, which I personally think should undergo fundamental changes, the way it is studied in our schools, which is learning foreign languages. I've spent one lifetime in Sweden and I can say that their system of learning foreign languages, and not only in Sweden, otherwise in Scandinavian countries, is far better than with us. If you approach a newsstand and contact an elderly lady in front of a pension or a gentleman, they all speak a good English language. Our students have been studying in elementary school for eight years, four more in high school, and at the end of that young generation they leave school without yet completely mastering their language. I think in this regard, in terms of education reform, I certainly know that next year there will be a year in which the government of the Republic of Serbia will pay attention to education, and I think that the system of learning foreign languages should suffer fundamental changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33615	Thank you, Mrs. Djurovic. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go, Dr. Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33616	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is quite detailed here on all these laws, so I will certainly be in some elements and repeat myself. But before I go, I think he deserves an answer or a comment from one of the MPs who commented on this debate as the minister and MPs of the parliamentary majority believe that education is a secondary moment in our society. I don't think so. Looking at the stenographic notes and listening to the discussions of MPs of the ruling majority, the law, reading about textbooks as bigger, and these two, as "small laws", the opening statement of the minister and his answers in fact indicate that both the minister and the ruling majority consider education to be one of the most important pillars of the state, so it should be clearly said as one commentary on that insinuation. There's a lot of discussion here about these test deadlines, and even one previous colleague is, well, that number of deadlines, all that number of deadlines represents something that ruins education. I'm glad the minister said that there is a new law on education that needs to be done in quality, and I hope that we will discuss it too. I don't see any problem with the number of deadlines tested. I would remind myself, somewhere here there are MPs from the previous calling, that then in that law proposed on the number of deadlines tested that were within the law that there were four, it was considered because Bologna had been introduced, as a new way of studying, and through working in small groups, through the verification of knowledge, through working in small groups, through appropriate tests, that the four test deadlines would be sufficient. However, it has proved not enough. We have witnessed that every September students, besides others, have that number of deadlines examined, as one of the requirements. The comment is right away – why didn't the Ministry determine it administratively? This is actually the most honest and realistic solution to be given to colleges and college statutes. Why? Well, all the colleges did their accreditation, and according to that accreditation, they did the curricula and the programs by which these students were studying. Each of those colleges, if he did it, had to predict according to that, they did not ask for consent for teaching programs from the Ministry, they received it from the National Educational Council. Therefore, it is normal for these students to come and talk to deans and prodecans in search of a larger number of deadlines. None of us mentioned the number of deadlines here. It is necessary to do, I hope that in the creation of a new law, they will do an analysis of whether in an adequate way the Bologna process has been implemented, whether the teachers who participate have accepted, to be honest, a lot of teachers have not accepted the Bologna process as such, has resistance, whether the textbooks these students are learning according to the teaching process, according to what they are doing. So there are many elements, and what I followed, and I think most MPs, mostly profiles of the same colleges were on strike in September and October looking for a condition. I didn't see that there were medical, dental, pharmaceuticals, and I apologize because it's mine, so I'm saying, but I'm not going to mention the other ones. So, there must be an analysis of how adequate their teaching programs are in the teaching process, and that therefore the right and the view of the forward solution is, not to transfer the ball as a flight of the ministry's responsibility to colleges, but to see why there are problems and the need for a larger number of deadlines, is something of what I mentioned. On the other hand, it's not the same number of deadlines. If you hold the test criteria, the number of deadlines will not bring down your percentages, so whoever knows should pass, who knows not, will not pass. So for me, I think keeping the test criteria is a necessary minimum to pass the most important thing, not whether that student is going to get out eight, ten times, well, get out eight and ten times, but if he hasn't learned he can't pass. So I don't think that number of deadlines is of any importance for these reasons. The same opposition MP mentioned that he did not believe in the dean's dignity, produced, that there were some abuses. Well, individuals don't need to generalize things. From, I don't know, how many higher education institutions and universities, if there have been abuses on two or three, let's not generalize. First of all, the number of deadlines doesn't bring the dean, prodigal. By law, the statute of change must go through the scientific teaching council. So I guess we have to respect those teachers and teachers. And the teacher of this scientific teaching council who will agree to his nature of work, is already mentioned, are one of the natural sciences, the other are humanistic, social and third artists. So there's a fundamental nature that makes a difference, where there's logically some changes. So I'm obviously a little bit more of a stickler around this because I thought that some of the opposition who commented on this part of the law, as if they weren't teachers somewhere, as if they weren't doctors, as if we were reading some other law, and this specifically refers to reading and interpreting the law on textbooks. Listening to some of these comments on the law, by opposition MPs, I respect them, I can put them in two groups. One group of MPs were properly discussed and generally said that the law is an improvement, that quality is forward, but that there are appropriate parts that they want to change with their amendments. Now, they condition it, if you adopt my amendments, then we'll vote. And, that other group, like we haven't read the same law, which doesn't see anything, that doesn't see any improvement, like we're going back, and that's for the sake of the public absolutely false. This law in general, although I am an MP of the ruling majority, I again have some basic interest, there are many, and in general, we need to watch as a whole, whether one law is a step forward and an improvement, and not to find small things. This is a big step. A qualitative new step. So, said counterpart Orlic, not to repeat availability, problem resolution, expert schools on the elements of transparency management, the removal and reduction of the possibility of corruption, the availability of the student's financial budget. Well, that's what's most important, what it leads to, not getting into the details. In that part of the procedure for approving textbooks and that part of the procedure is very well done with procedures that will result in improving the quality of these textbooks. Now, there are appropriate remarks, and I have to mention, and that's what one MP said, the Corruption Agency has adopted a lot of objections, but these are not big problems, it's going to be the Minister and the Ministry can through the sublegal act, that part to dress up and to arrange and to make some possible technical things, but also if they were to enter into the debate professionally to look at those eyes, but also to look at each other's eyes. So it also requires a hearing as it was at a public hearing. The same thing defends one way, the other by another, and the opposition demeans and denies anything. One fact is, to end up in the end, since my colleagues from the Parliament club spoke in detail about all aspects of the Law on textbooks, taxing in all segments where this is an improvement, I will not repeat myself. For the sake of the public, the Law on textbooks that the ministry has done is one quality for the better, but as normal as any education is evolution and I like to repeat, education shows itself in practice in certain parts that need to be prepared, and therefore I like to often be amended by the Law on Education, because as soon as there is a lack of grooming, because there is also said, I forgot which of the MPs, education does not come from this law, basic and middle comes from 150 years ago. The practical experience of generations according to new conditions, maturation, the economic strength of society, enlightenment is arranged. So the Law on textbooks will certainly, if there are shortcomings, hopefully through some changes, be tailored. The quality is better, it's a fact and these two laws are not dating and courting students, these are objective things that should have been done as well as with this retirement where the minister in the opening part has said nicely that in fact now it is possible for those in that year and the exact figure of 0.34%, that something they were forced to do earlier, and maybe I don't want to do that part by the end of the school year. So this segment is also the right way and the best way to solve that segment of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33617	I thank Dr. Princeevich. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33618	Mr. Chairman, Rules of Procedure, Article 107(1). In my humble opinion, dialogue is the basis of democracy, of having talks, of bickering, of finding the best solution. After all, several times today have been MPs and MPs and called on the minister for dialogue, and I ask you, Mr. Chairman, who should we have dialogue with? With whom Mr Verbic to conduct the dialogue, look at these empty benches here and whether the benches are conducted dialogue or if there is a dialogue with MPs and MPs? We are accused today that our education is secondary, that it doesn't matter to us, so why don't they show that it's important for them to be present in the O.R. The honor of one exception, probably if he had drowsy, would have taken him to cafes and cafes in Belgrade where they show the importance of education. It is hilarious when "academist" Zivkovic accuses that he is not education and education, that they are not the primary professor of Knezevic, Professor Poskurica, Professor Stojmirovic, Professor Tomic, Professor Darka Laketic. I will not list all the teachers in the SNS parliamentary group, but with this presence, patiently, waiting for order, we show respect for both the National Assembly and the topic on the agenda today. These empty halls show neglect towards education, neglect towards young people and young generations in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33619	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure because I have no way to keep the MPs of the opposition in the O.R., but I would also notice that Mr. Pavicevic listens very carefully to today's debate, so I thank Mr. Pavicevic, who is patiently sitting in the O.R. and listens to a debate that is on the agenda. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and the chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Verbic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, have now injured the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bečić, a member of the 103rd, who defines the right of a National MP, and is such as here 250, to react to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Babic, Mr. Becic, called earlier to point out that you injured article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which addresses the question of the dignity of the People's MPs and the dignity of the National Assembly and, instead, to Mr Babic explain how you violated the Rules of Procedure in article 107, Mr Babic used those two minutes to replicate, to inform other MPs from other MPs' clubs and parties represented in this House on certain matters, and your obligation was, Mr Becic, to immediately interrupt Mr Babic, when we all noticed that he abused the right of Article 103. Rules of Procedure, to warn Mr Babic that what he is doing is just a violation of the 107th member he has called on, which is a question of the dignity of the National Assembly and if Mr Babic, Mr Becic, would continue to violate the dignity of the National Assembly, that on the basis of Articles 109, 110, 111, 112 and 113, Mr Becic, once again in this conference, you would give notice to MP Zoran Babic. Since you didn't do it, I invite you to do it now, Mr. Becic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33621	I thank you, Mr Pavicevic, I am obliged to give you an explanation and ask you if the assembly will come forward in the voting day. Mr Babic, like any other MP, has the right to point out through the breach of the Rules of Procedure and to express dissatisfaction with the presence of MPs in the hall, and he also believes that I, as chairman, must take care of the order in the large hall of the National Assembly and thinks that I should ensure that the opposition is present on such an important subject as these three laws that are on the agenda and that is his right as MPs and he had the right to point it out to me, but as I said, I do not have the opportunity to discipline an opposition that should sit in the large hall of the National Assembly for the sake of Serbian citizens and listen to this debate until the end. I thank you once again for being an MP to the opposition, the only MP in this room remained patiently until the end and listening to the debate and respecting both the MPs and the minister and the citizens of Serbia and listening to the debate until the end. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33622	Very short, Mr. Becic, Article 108(1). This is where we saw an obvious example of the system of values. A system of values that supports ignoring dialogues, ignoring the topic, supporting these empty benches, and I would really ask these responsible and wonderful people from RTS who are much more patient, although they are much less paid, than their fellow opposition counterparts and colleagues, but stay until the end and do their job, unlike colleagues and colleagues from the opposition with whom there is no and with whom it is impossible to keep the dialogue. On the other hand, a colleague of Pavicevic asks you, Mr. Becic, that I be punished, because today I spent almost all my time in these benches. Is that the system of values by which work is being punished? Attendance punishes? And the absence from the National Assembly or the presence in some cafes, cafes, or who knows what kind of events is good? Everywhere, just not in the National Assembly. That's scandalous, Mr. Chairman. It's scandalous to throw dust in your eyes. Maybe somebody's gonna believe me or not, but they're gonna believe the pictures, they're gonna take pictures of empty benches. Where are your colleagues and colleagues? Why didn't they stay and keep us in dialogue? Why didn't they stay and have sex with Mr Verbic? Did Mr. Verbic come out of the O.R.? Have any colleagues and colleagues from the SNS left the O.R.? Instead of standing up and saying, well done, you're standing here disciplined because you care about the subject, because you care about young people, because you care about higher education, because you care about the basics of education, because you care about textbooks? Someone in this room supports wanting to move that dialogue to the cafes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33623	Time, Mr. Granny. Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Babić, I assume the opposition's representatives believe they do not have the arguments they would use in these discussions, to challenge these laws that are on the agenda, and therefore, I suppose, they had to leave the great National Assembly Hall. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: They can praise if they do not dispute. ( b) Do you want the congregation to declare itself? No, I don't. Mr. Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Verbic, Ms. Lužanin and the Honorable Mr. Shuvakov, were injured, Mr. Becic, the next members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, shortly before Mr. Zoran Babic, members of 283, 284, 285, 286, 287, and member of the 288th Honored Gentlemen. These are members who define the rights and responsibilities of the People's Parliaments, and your obligation to Mr Becic was to tell Mr Babic that there are these members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that he is not a National MP who should be arbitration here about how other MPs exercise their duties or use their rights in the National Assembly. If you, Mr. Becic, still think of it as being Mr. Babic, to suggest that he should ask himself the question – and where are 115 SNS MPs, the respected Mr. Becic, who are not here today, that Mr. Babic, when speaking to the directors, the RTS, asked that the little focus of the camera be directed by the SNS benches, so there are no 17, 18 at this time, respected Mr. Becic, and there are 136. I'm sitting here. I've been looking for dialogue with Mr. Verbic all day. He hasn't answered any of my questions. It is a matter of dignity of the National Assembly and the relations of the executive authority to the legislative authority. And instead of reacting to that by Mr. Babic, he does other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33625	Mr. Pavicevic, since you pointed me out to these members, I will only read the first position in Article 283. The Messenger of the people is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly. I don't have any more comments. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. I thank you. Mr. Babic, you're calling again for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33626	Article 107, of course, dignity, Mr. Becic. I'm gonna go ahead with what you started a little while ago. What Pavicevic called on earlier was not to be called upon and to refer you to those members in 283 and 274, but to his colleagues: Mr Zivkovic, Mr Stefanovic, Mr Janko Veseinović, Mr Senic, Mr Djurisic, Mrs Comic. They were to be told that the MP was required to participate in the work of the National Assembly. Does Mr. Zivkovic participate in the work of the National Assembly? I don't know, maybe it's a stealth, maybe it's some invisible MPs, I don't know, flying, invisible. The MP cannot be denied entry and stay in the building of the National Assembly. That's what he called himself earlier when he replicated to me, and he wanted to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is it possible that someone has been denied entry into the National Assembly or should we deny leaving the National Assembly just to do their job? The MP is obliged to report his leave at the session to the president of the National Assembly who informs the National Assembly. Did they notify you? Did they notify you, and you say that I broke Rules of Procedure, Rule 284? Those who did not attend did not break their presence, nor did they inform them. They haven't informed. We're in the debate. It's a matter of strategy how many people will be present, it's a matter of strategy, and the rest are the people who debate, who discuss these laws, which are the most professional, who are not academics Zivkovic. Who stayed on your side, Mr. Pavicevic? Nobody. Two hundred and eighty-five people's messengers shall have the right to pay, and shall these people's messengers, who are not present, go to the register and raise their wages for what? Because they are not present in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33627	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Pavicevic, are you answering again? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Pavicevic, you will now, as chairman, have to refer me to it for a half hour or an hour, because this doesn't lead to anything. People's MPs who want to discuss the subject simply do not have the opportunity, and the use of a violation of the Rules of Procedure is not right because of the MPs who are patiently waiting to talk about this subject. So to ask you, you will have opportunities (Vladimir Pavićevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. I'll have to take a break, Mr. Pavicevic. So I'm taking a break. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Take a break.]] We're going back to work. [[After a break.]] The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33628	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, of course, are for SNS MPs and how important this is. Of course we know our duties, that we are responsible and that we continue this debate. We have very important education laws ahead of us. When this topic is on the agenda, it's really a special pleasure for me to talk about these laws today. I will apply my time primarily to the Law on textbooks, but I will make my positive comment on amendments to the Law on Higher Education, Amendments to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I have to say at the beginning that the Ministry did do a good proposal for a textbook law, did a good job for all interested parties. Of course, the result is not lacking if serious and thorough work has been done, and this work has been going on for a year since May of last year, and the public debate began on 21 November 2014. Then this law, as a draft law, was published in the Educational Review, is my favorite newspaper, where I find out everything that's going on in our educational-experienced system. We had numerous stands, round tables, and for the MPs we also had public listening. What I have to point out is that it takes three important factors for a smooth, quality work in the educational process to be fulfilled. Staff, working conditions and certainly adequate teaching resources are needed. Today we are talking about teaching tools, and this is about textbooks, as basic doactically shaped teaching means. In a public debate that lasted a long time, I have to say that this bill had a really big support for all interested parties. We MPs, first of all from the Education Committee, but also at the address of the Ministry of Education, have received many letters of support and this opportunity I have to support it with three, I will not read them, because for that we do not have enough time, but I must say that all participants in the education system have shown their unquestionable support. I will start with the Association of Parents, by Dr Dragana Ćorić, president of the Association of Citizens of the “Friends” Novi Sad and Vice-President of the Council of Parental Schools of the City of Novi Sad, who actively participated in the preparation of this law and certainly contributed to a good solution. There are also a letter from 48 schools for students with developmental disorders in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the Association of Defectologists of Serbia, the Faculty of Special Education and Rehabilitation of Parents with Disabilities, with Disabilities, as well as students with Disabilities in Development and Disabilities, as well as a letter from the Community of Electrical Schools of Serbia which support these changes and say that undivided support from colleagues is given in introducing manuals for professional courses, which is welcome news, especially that publishers in this area can be a community school. This only supports the fact that the law has great support and that it will eliminate many of the problems that exist today. This law aims at seducing order, seducing order on the market in this area to make a colourful picture of selecting textbooks much better. The Law on textbooks focuses on preparing, selecting, selecting, issuing, but also on applying and eventually withdrawing appropriate textbooks if they do not meet the relevant criteria. I must also commend the mere explanation of this bill, because indeed all the changes in this law are both supported by tables, illustrations and numerous examples of practice. This is all about the ministry's seriousness that we really have a good proposal today for a textbook law. We've come out many times, almost most MPs, which is the purpose of this law. Of course, the quality of textbooks and the availability of textbooks to everyone. When I say "all" these are primarily students with developmental disorders, disability, secondary school students, national minorities, but I would say they are also students of socially endangered categories. Of course, the goal is to reduce corruption in the choice and choice of textbooks. We said more than once, I will not repeat myself and explain to get out of this law, first of all have students, because they are the center of law, this law is being changed because of students, who are subjects of educational work, but, of course, all other interested parties, we must not forget neither parents nor teachers, of course, nor economics, nor the ministry, nor the state itself. To understand what changes we have today in the proposal for a textbook law, of course, we need to know what the situation is today. We all know that in the Republic of Serbia for many years there was a monopoly of a certain publisher in the choice of textbooks and this led to us not having creativity and the development of textbooks, as a teaching tool. This led to a hyper production in one of the textbooks, which primarily referred to elementary school as compulsory teaching subjects. And I have to say in the 2014 catalog. In 2015, we have as many as 2,000 titles, that we have 85 titles for first grade math and Serbian language, and that is a completely different state, a completely different picture, let's say, in high school, where these textbooks are very outdated, where the last one was published, say, 25 or 26 years ago. The problem is expensive textbooks. The problem is too many textbooks. For example, in the fifth grade of elementary school for the subject of mathematics only the textbook and the collection of tasks have as many as 400 pages, and when we list all other subjects, it is really too much content. This ministry has also found a free textbook project. A basic complaint - as someone who worked 27 years in education as an educational worker and I was able to choose textbooks for my students, in my opinion, the basic weakness of this project of free textbooks that existed artificially divided textbooks into work and non-work textbooks. Those who were declared unemployed had to come back. And what an unworkable textbook, how can students be taught from such a textbook, teach that something is important, because we know that our ultimate goal is to teach students how to learn and how to use appropriate information in the right way. What is the weakness of so far's textbooks, what we've noticed, multiple MPs, is a large number of material errors. That's just inadmissible. Then, inappropriate illustrations, especially in younger classes, because, I would point out that the textbooks besides course, primary educational functions have, and in no way should we forget the educational function. It's just as important. And what I've been pointing out on my own on the Education Committee, and what I think is important, and I think that the minister and he accepted it, and he referred that request to the Serbian Academy of Sciences is language, Cyrillic letter and letters of Cyrillic. The first and most important book in our schooling is the Bucharest, and when we open a barrel of different publishers we can find a completely diverse picture, that the same letters of our alphabets are written in a completely different way. I have to recommend that, say, the Union of Teachers of the Republic of Serbia has a good proposal so that the Cyrillic could be standardised and that from that initial Bucharest and most importantly, I would say, the books that we all remember, and today when we are here, how important it is and I think we could spend our efforts to do so. We've talked a lot about the newspapers that will solve these problems, and we'll talk about it in detail. I'll just be taxing some of them out, and we'll have a chance to talk about all 50 members in detail. This Law on textbooks redefines the textbook set. We have a new concept of an additional teaching tool. We have already pointed out several times that it is very important to have an electronic supplement that will deepen the student’s independent work, but also to check their knowledge and encourage their creativity. What is important in order to solve the problem of low-priced textbooks, now the opportunity to issue manuals also has secondary professional schools, but also individual associations that can absolutely contribute in this regard. My view is that this proposal in the law that textbooks are chosen for four years is extremely good. He also brings proper peace among students, parents, and teachers, but I think he is good and because exactly the school program in our schools is being brought to four years, so that the selection of books is not only for material and technical reasons but also for these qualitative and very good solutions. A good solution is that we will have a limited price of textbooks, limited volume of our textbooks. There are many changes, but here I am not going any further, we have heard it from many MPs, as far as the amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act are concerned, and with that, this is not a small change. It's a good thing we had good communication with the students, that now we'll let the number of deadlines determine the universities by respecting their autonomy. What is extremely important is that it is a new law on higher education where we will talk about very important issues of higher education. It's, like, frames, funding and all the other questions. As regards the amendment of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, rationalisation is also involved in some way, and that fellow educators will be able to retire in a better way since 1 September, but the public debate on the new law on the foundations of the education and education system has already been completed. So we hope, in the near future, that we will have this bill here before us. There'd be a lot more to talk about, and I might have done a lot of things in that story. In the end, I would like to tell the educators to believe, and that is the promise of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic that they will have the first of the first of these austerity measures, that they will first reflect in principle educational workers, and I think that's good. In Voting Day, of course, along with SNS MPs, I will be happy to cast my vote and support all three proposals of these laws, and I wish the members of the ministry success in the work. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33629	Thank you, Mrs. Milosevic. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic. Here you go, Mrs. Alexic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Goodbye, gentlemen. Goodbye, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33630	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, today we are discussing the draft law on textbooks and, among other things, we are discussing the amendment of the Law on Higher Education and Amendments to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System. In particular, when it comes to amending these laws, changes are very small, but they are very significant, and when it comes to amendments to the Law on Higher Education, it is about giving much greater autonomy to higher education institutions, which I think is fine. This proposal allows higher education institutions to set the number of test deadlines themselves, as well as their terms. Of course, the Committee itself was concerned and, of course, different views were made when it came to the number of deadlines under examination, as well as whether the State should provide a framework or should not be given a framework. In particular, when it comes to the number of test deadlines, different attitudes have been made, ranging from extremely rigid to extremely flexible, in which minority students would have the right to go out when they wanted to take the exam. Of course it's true, as always, always somewhere in the middle. I believe that both higher education institutions will be able to make their own decision, in accordance with their specificities, which is an optimal number of test deadlines for them. So I don't doubt their ability to make the right decision about it. When it comes to amending the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, it is primarily about the exercise of the right to retire to teachers, educators and professional associates. Under these changes, the future will be able to exercise the right to retire if they meet one of the two conditions. The first condition is either that they have 40 years of employment, or that they meet the second condition, that they have completed 65 years of life, and that they have a minimum of 15 years of employment. When it comes to the proposal for a law on textbooks, which was certainly the most said today, it is simply difficult and almost impossible not to repeat itself after the whole day’s discussion. I'll try to be brief in my presentation. This bill insists, above all, on the quality and availability of textbooks, but also on curbing corruption and transparency. What has particularly attracted my attention and what I would like to draw attention to, and for extremely practical reasons, is that this bill has taken the utmost care of the home budget, which I think is really something to highlight and what should be commended for anyway. What goes in favor of it is what is limited, both the price and the volume of the textbooks. Also, what's best of all is that textbooks will now be selected every four years, and not every year, as was the case so far, and it will certainly be something for our parents that is more than valuable. Teachers will no longer be allowed to insist on additional teaching material, adding that teaching in this case does not have to endure at all. So the quality of teaching doesn't have to suffer at all. There are, of course, different other means based on which to improve the quality of teaching, there are libraries, at the very end of the line that is the creativity of teachers themselves. So there are ways, there are means, and parents don't have to pay for it. What I would also point out, and what's good, is that there are no restrictions on the number of publishers, and the ultimate objective of this bill and what it insists on most is the quality of textbooks and their availability. In particular, it is covered by Articles 15 and 9. When it comes to Article 9, it makes it very clear that the government can make a decision to finance or co-finance textbooks for students coming from materially endangered families, also for students with disabilities or with certain disturbances in development. I think that this proves in the best possible way, so if nothing else, one humanity, one good start for something that I think is, I'm sure, the dream of every educator, and these are free textbooks of our students, which, of course, is now impossible to provide because of the economic situation that is what it is, but we hope that the economic situation will at least once in the future allow it to happen. Definitely, what is most important in this whole thing in this bill is the quality of the textbook. It's really the only thing in which we have to be extremely rigid and quality when it comes to compromises. In this way we are practically taking on and taking on a huge responsibility, because it is up to us to literally depend on what textbooks our children will learn from, from which textbooks our students will be educated. Of course, the quality of the textbook is not crucial when it comes to the quality of teaching, at least not judging, but also how we can't say it's irrelevant. What I would particularly point out if the quality of teaching is at stake, and what one of my esteemed colleagues pointed out before me in my presentation, is one big problem, or phenomenon that we are facing today, which is the problem of giving an increasing number of private classes. Perhaps that question raises one more serious question with it, and that is the problem of teaching quality in our schools. The objective question is what is this quality of teaching in our schools, when there is so much need for private classes? When I went to school, private classes were some lonely occurrences, and today it is something that has become practice and must be rooted out. I believe that the obligation of all our educators is to teach children how to learn first. This is our basic task, and when we do, there will indeed be a reduced need for private lessons. I sincerely believe and hope that this bill will help, and I am also sure that something else in it and how it can help and can practically use this opportunity to appeal to you, dear Minister, because I am sure that it will change, more specifically, I am convinced that everything can change if a certain effort is made. I think there's one phenomenon, one particular problem in our schools, which is that unfortunately, our educators are overloaded by paperwork. They're overloaded by something that they're practically not used to working on. They now, in practice, have two jobs – the job of teachers, teachers, professors, but at the same time they do the work of an administrative official, which they are definitely not used to, because educators are primarily creators and do not fit them with such jobs. I believe, more precisely, I am convinced that doing all these jobs significantly reduces their efficiency and efficiency in class. I am convinced that if there is a change in this regard, that it will certainly lead to the most positive consequences of course, so that finally the educators will be able to do what is really their job, that in doing so they will be able to give their maximum, that they will be able to be much more creative by being relieved, that they will be able to pay much more attention to their students and therefore, as a result, the need for private lessons will be reduced. I think you'll see this as an extremely constructive desire to really improve our education in the best possible way. At the very end of my presentation, I would like to point out that I consider this to be a very high-quality law. What got me the most attention and what I would especially like to point out, and what's new, is that the interest of students is put, for a change, in the first place. I think it's really a good start, and that's why this bill, as well as the other two amendments laws, will, of course, be fully supported by the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33631	Thank you, Mrs. Alexic. The word has a folk MP, Velinka Tosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33632	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, the honourable fellow MPs, no law is perfect and is therefore subject to change. The reasons for the adoption of the new Law on textbooks are numerous, and I will only list a couple. The 2009 Law is not in line with the amendments and additions to the 2013 Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, as regards the competence of the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, to propose the approval of textbooks to the Minister. The applicable law has enabled the licensing of a large number of textbook publishers and the approval of a large number of textbooks, which has not resulted in better availability of textbooks, as well as improvements in the quality of the textbooks, especially for professional schools. School 2014/2015 In the Republic of Serbia, students enrolled 132 educational profiles in 15 areas in professional schools for four years and 105 educational profiles in three years, making up a total of 75% of the student population in secondary schools. The opening of the private publishing textbook market has brought more textbooks for the primary school, but the offer for professional subjects in professional and artistic schools remains unchanged, so that many of these textbooks date back to the 1990s. The majority of textbooks, due to their limitations, are virtually unusable, have been overcome due to discrepancies with scientific, technical and social changes over the last 20 years. Such a situation has led to teaching in professional schools without textbooks mostly for a large number of subjects, which is worrying. I work in high school, and in certain professions we have 17 cases. Imagine the quality of work in such departments when students do not have a textbook. Of course, he's not a student capable of following the class, following the teacher's words, so that's why a large number of teachers are forced to dictate to their students. And of course, that's something that we have to overcome in the next period and therefore we're here to work on improving and amending this existing law. It is also worrying that even the curricula for certain secondary schools for all these years has not been particularly modified, so it is no wonder that this is the situation with textbooks. It is important to highlight Article 34 of the proposed law, which discusses the ban on the publisher to do, and to the school, the preschool institution, the employee, to receive every donation. For the past five, six years, there has been real chaos in the purchase of textbooks. Publishers raced how to get to the customers, so they offered everything and everything to both employees and schools. A lot of things were donated, they organized seminars for educational workers, and in the end, someone had to pay for it, and who else would, rather than pay for it, a parent. I must point out that the schools in terms of material equipment are in a really difficult situation, that they need a lot of things, but they still need to be dealt with differently, by seizing out certain means other than that publishers buy laptops, smart tablets, tablets and other, copy machines. I don't think that's appropriate, and that's how school's worth is reduced, as well as the education workers themselves. By passing this law, I believe that order will be introduced in the publishing and procurement of textbooks and that it will therefore also lower the prices of textbooks than it has been so far. I can only give one example, that a reader, regardless of the publisher, costs from 600 to 900 dinars. Imagine how much money it takes parents to buy 17 high school textbooks, so our students often copy these textbooks because of high book prices, so it's no longer a textbook, it's some miniature, those letters are very small. That photocopied book costs 130-140 dinars. He can't read, he can't follow, he can't work in class, he's not active, he can't study at home, he can't learn from that book, and of course there's a quality of teaching that's not at what level he's supposed to be at. It's hard for a student to master material. We, the educators, have a hard time making this material available to our students, so we're in trouble, both of us and them. We must in some other way focus on the very quality of the textbook, their price, because it is the only way that the teaching process can run in some right direction. Publishers should also pay attention to both the quality in the thematic sense of textbooks and in technical terms. But I'm just going to point out the technical meaning, that's my personal opinion, all these textbooks are nice when you open them for the first ten days, and then these sheets fall off, and these books are no longer for use, so they become, as we say, the jargons. Students lose some pages of these books and believe that this must be paid attention, so, with the printers themselves, that they better bind these pages into books. I'd have that much. I call on all fellow Members of the People's Parliament to support all proposals of the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33633	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic, you have no right to a replica. The word is Mr Milos Tosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33634	Dear Chairman, thank you for your word. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this joint principled review of these three laws, means, the Law on textbooks, the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Higher Education and the Proposal for a Law on the Amendment of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, I would like to refer most to that part of the story and the controversy of the law which is essentially the most relevant in this debate, which is this proposal for the Law on textbooks. In this law, normally, great advantages are mentioned, such as the family budget, the quality of textbooks and the quality of teaching, but I think in a few words I should say some things that are very important, which makes this law better and better, anyway. In the proposal for this law, the accent was laid down to comply with the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, as well as the harmonisation of legal solutions in the area of the publishing of textbooks, as regards jurisdiction and procedures. This law enforcement is very important for a number of reasons. First of all, the possibility of conflicting with the Law on the Fundamentals of the Educational and Educational System and the Law on textbooks is eliminated, which is first and foremost important. This means that there can no longer be a situation in which, under the provisions of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, there is a prohibition or approval of a procedure, which is incompatible with other laws directly affecting the areas of education. This also avoids the case when some procedures are carried out according to the will of one who conducts the procedure, or at his will to choose which law he will do so. Also, it means eliminating potential malversions, because this bill clearly defines the rules, so it removes every space, which our people say -- holes in the law, which was undefined or insufficiently precise, which also means that someone can no longer call on how they misread the law or used one rather than the other, which was happening so that the possibilities for error are really minimal. The second advantage of harmonising the law is that the work of those who use it is advertised. those who have to implement it in certain procedures. So far, the practice is such that when certain provisions of the law are in place, we ask the Minister of Education for help to solve the problem. This again creates the need to use various resources, i.e. spending them, which is contrary to one of the objectives of this government, which is to reduce unnecessary costs regardless of whether they are viewed in money, time and the like. As with any amendment, that is, the bill and this proposal aim to improve the existing system of education and benefit from it will be truly multiple. For example, this bill increases the efficiency itself in the work of the education system by making it possible for clearly defined members and provisions to carry out procedures to be handled more easily, faster and simpler, which is a major improvement compared to the current period. The next important part that regulates this proposal for a textbook law is the alignment of procedures and methods of working in the field of publishing textbooks with regard to the jurisdiction of proceedings. The law so far has allowed the opening of the textbooks' market for private publishers, which was very useful, but within the framework of the basic school textbooks, but this does not apply to high school where there are no expert textbooks, which is also determined by this law. The current law, therefore, did not give the expected results with regard to increasing the availability of all textbooks and their quality, which is not in relation to the vision of our prime minister and government, so it needs to be adjusted to make the results better, and this law does so entirely. One of the positive things, this law that we are discussing, is that by opening the private publishing market, a monopoly that is present has inevitably led to a decline in the prices of the textbooks themselves, as well as a slight increase in their quality. It also worked to a healthy competition, and those because of the improvement in the quality of textbooks that are re-translated to the quality of teaching, continue not only to the knowledge of students, but also to the comprehensive knowledge of our entire society. Also, one of the things that this draft law on textbooks significantly improves the regulation of the area of publishing textbooks that are missing for certain educational profiles or those that are obsolete, or which the publisher does not want to issue, and which has a license for the publisher which creates problems with the lack of one of the basic means of successful teaching. This problem has so far been the most cut out in secondary schools where no textbooks for professional subjects are missing or existing inadequacy or out of date. The very fact that the draft Law on textbooks lasted about a year and that the agreement of the largest number of interested parties was reached I am confident and convinced that the adoption of this law, as well as its application itself, will be multiple. Minister Verbic, the resolute ministry that runs, I want a lot of success, as well as the Government in further work and a lot of progress as it has been so far, and I thank everyone else for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-28-0.u33635	I thank you, Mr. Tosanic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you.. I hereby conclude a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda. Continuation is tomorrow at 1200 hours, so noon. I thank you, Mr. Verbic, for your quality participation in today's session.
