ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21042	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 112 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Natasa Vukkovic and Aleksandar Senic. We continue to work and move on to a search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending Law and Adjunctions to the Law on Defence pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by: Defence Minister Bratislav Gasic, Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, Zoran Djordjevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Biljana Babic, Secretary of Defence, General Major General Bojan Zrnić, Head of Defence Technology at the Ministry of Defence, Brigadier General Dragoslav Lacković, Chief of Staff of the Department of Staff at the Ministry of Defence, Colonel Sasa Trandafilović, Head of the Office for Budget at the Ministry of Defence, Colonel Slaven Boskovic, Head of the Department for Training of the General Staff of the Army of Serbia, Colonel Vjekoslav Boginović, Head of the Legal Affairs Group at the Defence Inspectorate and Slavica Jerkovic, Senior Advisor, Head of Legal Administration at the Ministry of Defence. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected members and representatives of the Serbian Army, respected Minister Selakovic, I see that you have come to help Minister Gasic a little today, the esteemed ministers of the National Assembly, I think, gentlemen, that members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated in 110 to 283 and 284. How's the broken Rules of Procedure? By not allowing MP Zoran Zivkovic to enter the large National Assembly hall this morning to participate in the amendment debate on these two draft laws, respected Members of Parliament. I remind the MPs, as well as our guests in the National Assembly today, that the decision by the chairman of the 11th session of the Second Regular Session Mr. Zivkovic was exposed to one of the difficult wills of the National Assembly, that one thing that must not be allowed in the National Assembly was done at that session of the National Assembly. An illegal restriction on freedom of expression has been made to a national MP, and this restriction of freedom, respected by the presidents of the National Assembly, was illegal. The measures given to MP Zoran Zivkovic were also disproportionate to what he did, gentlemen. That is why I propose, the president of the National Assembly, to delay the implementation of the distance measure from the National Assembly session, until the Constitutional Court is declared to the Constitutional Court by Zoran Zivkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21044	Time. Thank you. You've been invited, like all these days, to an injury. 107, 108, 283 and 284. The President of Parliament has not hurt any of these members of the Rules of Procedure. You know that the measure set out in Article 108 was given to MP Zoran Zivkovic because, in accordance with Article 107(1), he threatened or failed to show dignity and respect for the National Assembly, because he addressed the chairman with the words "stoko", or with two words: "stoko one", I cannot determine and, accordingly, the chairman gave him several measures of caution, as well as the confiscation of words and measures away from the session. The Management Board confirmed and imposed a fine. The Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the execution of the sentence. You have informed us that you have filed an appeal to the Constitutional Court and asked for a provisional measure, a delay in the measure that has been imposed. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are not in a position to apply that decision to the Constitutional Court. So that's not our jurisdiction, that we decide first on the Constitutional Court's decision, so we wait for the Constitutional Court's decision. If you want, shall we vote? (No) Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of Ruzica Stefanovic, Goran Radic, Titomir Dakovic and Novic Antic, representatives of Serbia's military union, who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Velika Hall gallery. Here you go. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21045	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, Honored Guests, I advertise Article 103, Article 107, Article 113. We have been listening for days to a colleague, Pavicevic, asking us to make a decision on the facts of Article 113 instead of the Constitutional Court. The Rules of Procedure, brought by the MPs on whose list he was elected. In doing so, he honours us to violate freedom of expression, and the punishment received by Mr. Zivkovic is Draconski, I am against it, but it was prescribed by MPs and convened by the list on which Mr. Pavicevic himself was elected. So they complain about the Rules of Procedure who chose their colleagues, those colleagues they went to the polls with. He expects us here to take the role of the Constitutional Court and make a decision and violate the act they have taken. No matter what this council has not brought it, I believe that this Rules of Procedure must be respected. In this connection, Article 103 also states that when a certain MP from a particular parliamentary group abuses the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that in such situations a group of MPs, or MPs, who have advertised such a breach of the Rules of Procedure, is to be taken away. With that in mind, I respect that the chairman does not want to say it, but just so it is known that the opposition is favored here and I will always support the chairman who holds the presidency of this parliament in order to carry out certain discounts on the opposition, as is the case in this case. I'm not asking to vote on this, but it's just for the public to know that we're not breaking the Rules of Procedure, they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21046	You've applied to Articles 103, 107 and 113. Article 103 refers to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, 107 was, therefore, we have already responded to the first MP and 113 are the measures that have been made. So the President of Parliament didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure with anything. You just figured out what he had to do with these provisions. I must say, the opposition has no privileged status, as you suggested in your presentation, neither with the president nor with the deputy, or vice president of parliament. We can only say that, I hope you won't ask us to vote. Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21047	Thank you, Your Honor. Gentlemen Ministers, guests from the Ministry, members of the Army, fellow MPs, we have taken advantage of the possibility that, in addition to the proposed amendments to Article 2 proposed by the Government, by proposing amendments and supplementing this law, we should also amend Article 4. The law, which spoke of the defence of the Republic of Serbia being conducted on its own and could also be implemented in co-operation with other countries within the framework of the institutions of the national, regional and global security system. We put in, and it's good that the government has accepted it, that it expands so that the defence can also be conducted in cooperation with other countries and international security organisations. We are witnesses and we all know that at this point more than 500 members of the Serbian Army, perhaps, seem to me to be more than 20 missions, which are mainly organised by the UN, or the EU, outside our country's borders, and thus contributes to the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, but also to the defence of the Republic of Serbia, because in this way the Republic of Serbia is becoming an active factor in collective security. We think that this is good and that this change that we have proposed is an appropriate moment and the way the Army of the Republic of Serbia is accomplishing its mission today, its engagement and contribution to the security of the Republic of Serbia, and it is good that the government understood the essence of our amendment and accepted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21048	Thank you. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21049	I thank the president. Dear Ministers, members of the Ministry of Defence, we wanted to contribute a little precision in this article and to the practical point of point 3 that you have placed in the military part of the defence of the Republic of Serbia, which includes a set of actions aimed at preparing for the defence and defence of the Republic of Serbia, with the use of the Serbian Army, that is the point. We add – and other entities of defense. We believe that military defenses in a situation of immediate war danger, or a situation of war, are not only carried out by the military, and we are witnessing that there has been no such thing in the past, and we see no reason why this amendment has been rejected. I think if we go back just a little bit in the past, what happened in 1999, or earlier years, you'll see that you're simply holding back those who fall into military defense in a situation of immediate war danger, or in a situation of war, to participate. Also, we have defined a slightly different strategy for the national security of the Republic of Serbia and the defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that our definition, to say, of modernization, of what existed, of what was proposed, is that there is no reason to really reject this amendment. It's up to you, of course, to assess, but I'm saying we have time to vote. I think this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21050	Thank you. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21051	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, respected guests from the Ministry, the amendment I have submitted is, above all, a legal-technical character and I do not understand why the government has not accepted this amendment. First of all, the amendment is a alignment with the proposed legal definition of defence entities, as well as other provisions of laws in which, apart from companies and other legal entities, entrepreneurs are designated as defence entities. The explanation given here on the refusal of amendments, I have to be honest, I don't understand, because I will read Article 2(3) what is meant by defence entities, which are – citizens, state authorities, AP bodies, local self-government bodies, companies, other legal societies, entrepreneurs and the Serbian Army. I don't see why this legal-technical amendment of mine wasn't accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21052	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Dr. Blaže Bradic. He's got a word for it. Blagoje Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21053	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that we have submitted to Article 2 concerns Article 4 of the Law, it deals with the basic concepts used in this law. There we have the appearance of military defence, civil defence and, under point 5 of the Serbian Army, which says that the Serbian Army is an organized armed force that defends the Republic of Serbia against the armed threat outside and carries out other missions and tasks in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the principles of international law governing the use of force. We were of the opinion that this should be explained a little more precisely, so we proposed that this point 5 reads – Serbia's military is an organised armed force that defends the Republic of Serbia against armed endangerment outside, executes other missions and tasks in accordance with the Constitution, the law and generally recognised principles and rules of international law that regulate the use of force. You have rejected our amendment with an explanation that the amendment is not accepted because the definition in the Defence Act is in line with the provision of Article 139. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and respected colleagues, I will remind you of article 139, says – The Serbian Army defends the country against armed endangerment outside and executes other missions and tasks in accordance with the Constitution, law and principles of international law that regulate the use of force. We think our argument is more comprehensive, clearer, and I hope that in the voting day you will support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21054	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21055	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will add something to what my colleague Bradic said, as well as to this morning's session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, on which, above all, this amendment has been declared unconstitutional on the basis of the government's position. I didn't have the opportunity to take a look at the constitutional provision at that time. Now I can safely say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has been deceived. The government may not accept this amendment, but it is absolutely not contrary to the Constitution or to the legal system. We have defined Serbia's Army more precisely here and we have said that it is an organized armed force. The Constitution in Article 139 says that the Serbian Army is defending the country against the armed threat on the outside, etc. In that part, our amendment goes from word to word to word to constitutional definition. We only added to the provision that it was an organized force, and what the Serbian Army would be but an organized armed force. So we didn't go against it, nor did we oppose our definition of constitutional definition of what the army was doing. So here in the Constitution we say what the army does, and we just define that the army is an organized armed force. In that sense, I want to repeat once again that we are deceived by the Ministry of Defense, that the definition is contrary to the Constitution. It is not contrary to the Constitution and I believe that the Ministry could accept such an explanation and such an amendment. In the end, I say, it is the government's decision, but I would just like to point out once again that this amendment is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21056	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21057	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a lot of noise about nothing. Mr. Vesenovicu, your amendment is not in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Therefore, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives shall consider whether the amendments are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. You are persistently avoiding using this syntagma – and the legal system. You brought Mr. Veselinović while you were in power in the Republic of Serbia and while you had a majority in the National Assembly of the so-called “Republic of Serbia”. the unique methodological rules for the making of rules. In these unique methodological rules for the making of rules, it says that when you take over definitions from higher legal acts, specifically here from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then you take over the definition as it was given in a higher legal act, that is, in this case in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You didn't respect that. You said the Army was Serbia, or you added the word "organised armed forces". So on the one hand, you didn't respect what it says in the unique methodological rules that you made. These are the rules for making, new technical rules for making regulations, and on the side that my personal opinion as a MP and as a lawyer is that this prefix is "organised" here is extremely unnecessary and illogical because when the military is said, it means by itself an organization, and it means a high degree of organisation. I've never heard of an army representing an unorganized armed force, so your amendment on one side is contrary to the Constitution and to the legal system, and part of the legal system is unique methodological rules, and I personally think that it's highly illogical, linguistically ill-assembled and absolutely does not correspond to the concept of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21058	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21059	Give me the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21060	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21061	Thank you. Dear fellow Martinovic said two things that do not stand. Namely, in Article 139. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not define what the Army of the Republic of Serbia is, but states in article 139 what it is doing. Says the Serbian Army defends the country, etc. The Law amending and supplementing the Defence Act defines what the Army of the Republic of Serbia is, and therefore we have added that part of the words, sentences, that it is an organized armed force, and in this regard we have not violated the uniform rules concerning the adoption of legal acts and it is not the opposite of Serbia's legal system or the opposite of the Constitution. Why did we add to the definition that the army is a single organized armed force? Just because it wasn't always like that in Serbia. There were also informal paramilitary formations that represented themselves as an army. They performed as an army, and in this sense we have some disputes that have arisen on this occasion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21062	Thank you. This wasn't a replica, we're going to take a minute and 20 seconds away from the total time, because you kept talking to the Minister and the Ministry and explained the amendment, so I can't count on it to be a replica. Marijan Risticevic is now reporting, so Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was willing to vote for this amendment and I'm just surprised, and the doctors are no longer what they used to be. Starting from the fact that the Doctor of Law has proposed this amendment, I can hardly believe that this amendment is in conflict with the Constitution. So, if someone teaches law, and I'm a layman about legal science, but I've yet to submit an amendment that doesn't conform to the Constitution. Here in this amendment, it is not only added that the Serbian Army is organised, etc., but is added to generally recognised principles. It writes -- it performs other missions and tasks in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the principles and rules of international law and the rules of international law of acceptance. What does it mean – generally recognised principles? What are the principles? How does an army act in accordance with generally recognised principles, I don't understand? It is generally clear that one doctor of legal science, one professor and one lecturer has submitted an amendment that does not comply with the Constitution and with the legal order of this country, so I do not know what students can learn if professors and doctors of law submit such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21064	The word is Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21065	What do you mean, this amendment is absolutely not to be accepted? He explained his colleague Martinovic very well why both the legal and the very word "organised" and then we get this explanation through a replica, in fact, let's go through the debate. What do paramilitary formations have to do with some civil wars or in some wars where the Serbian Army did not participate, and these paramilitary formations were not part of the military, these were some volunteer units in some other territory of the Serbian state, outside the Serbian state? So we are in the state of Serbia, we have the Army of Serbia, we have excellent laws on defence and the military with these changes, which clearly and precisely speak both the role of the army and the structure of the army and everything it does and it is clear what the army is. To put on a "organized armed force" or a military force now, it's completely pointless compared to everything that the military really is. I would ask my colleagues this time to take the debate seriously, not to use such terms because the military is the most respected institution by the people of Serbia, next to the Serbian Orthodox Church. She's more respected than the rest of us sitting here. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: Even the hunting organization. ) It is our fault, and even for a hunting organisation, there is no need to say "organised group", because it is very well known when my colleague Risticevic is suggesting what to add, it is known what is both the alliance and the organisation and how it is done and it is specified by the laws and this is all specified by the laws. Now we've got an expert to explain to us how some new definition of an army that doesn't exist anywhere in the United States, neither in China, nor in Russia, is going to be brought to the press, we're going to explain to people what the army is, and the people know very well, the citizens of Serbia, and more importantly, this law says it very precisely. So, please, just for the sake of the institution not to disturb, we have enough irresponsible individuals these days in Serbia who are violating the military's reputation and using the position where they are found to violate the military's reputation, and therefore the Serbian defence system that I said two days ago. If we had a judicial, health, education at that level at which it is defended and at which the Serbian Army is, we would have long been an EU member and a developed EU country, but unfortunately they are not on these other systems we should be working to bring them to that level, and this one we should look at to bring down and to not defile the reputation of the same army in the public of Serbia with irresponsible words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21066	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21067	I do not want to discuss with those who have said themselves that their right is not a stronger party, but because of the general public and because of the MPs who are closely following what is happening and who know the Constitution may not remember, until the end, but they know the basic principles, I will just say the following. In Article 16. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia under the heading International Relations, says - the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia rests on generally recognised principles and rules of international law. This is exactly the member of the Constitution we wanted to install into this definition, so we added "generally recognised" to the principles of international law. It's no wonder the Department of Defense hasn't read all the provisions of the Constitution and the law. So this is not contrary to the Constitution and the legal system. This is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. You may not accept this our closer definition, but in any case this is in accordance with the Constitution and legal systems. I said the political background and the reason why we suggested that this be specified, because it is necessary for our army to have a reputation, honor, etc. Of course, that reputation and honor are not achieved by cutting their wages, eliminating the possibility of getting apartments, etc. Some, of course, are spreading demagogue here, and have voted to cut salaries for the people serving in the Serbian Army and to reduce their pension by military pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21068	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21069	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I highly respect and respect the legal knowledge of my colleague, Dr Janko Veselinovic, but international relations, especially the constitutional definition of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia and the jurisdiction of the Serbian Army, are not the same. If we refer to the Constitution, then take it well and read Article 139. The constitution, which literally states in the Military Act, clearly states: "The army of Serbia defends the country from the armed threat outside and executes other missions and tasks in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the principles of international law governing the use of force." What's this about? After all, gentlemen, when was this law passed that's changing today? Well, when it was brought in, why didn't you bring in this particular narrative formula that you insist on entering this law today? So the law here is consistent with the Constitution and can't be anything else and clearly prescribes what makes the Serbian Army work. I respect your desire to improve the law, but you're simply wrong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21070	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21071	Thank you. Well, since there was one part of the earlier presentation at the expense of what I said and it was called demagogy, there is no demagogy in the fact that it is the reputation of the military as an institution and I regret that the National Assembly has no such reputation, and that is why we who are sitting here are guilty and, among other things, of this kind of behavior, because if I should now be on the basis of this reaction, and I have explained well that the political reasons for which someone is called to be specific, have nothing to do with the Army of Serbia, it has happened in some other places and in some other situations, in which the Serbian Army has not participated. And the militia isn't military and it wasn't military, and if someone doesn't understand it, I can explain it to him. If we're going to the demagogue to cut wages, I can say that the Army is probably in trouble because someone who was the minister of defense, and now he's the president of that party, I'm sorry I can't remember the name, because it changes every three months, but I know who the president is, and I know he was the defence minister, throwing extra weapons into the Adriatic instead of selling it. Some other ministers sold it, which was not members of the SNS, and did well by the military. Is that demagogy? Ten percent reduction, because the military is part of our society, is the result of the austerity measures we have to carry out because of the irresponsible authority of the previous regime, the same Mr Tadic, who I tasked the state as much as he owed, so today we have to implement these austerity measures. The military is part of the state, they know it and, as it is reduced in health care, it is also being enlightened by soldiers, not because they are soldiers, not because they are officers, but because someone has brought the state to the brink of bankruptcy while it was executive power, so now all this has to be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21072	Thank you. I can allow a wider discussion, but, just so you know, it takes everyone's time away from the group. If you don't want to discuss the amendments, I don't mind. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21073	I think I have the right to reply, because the president of my party has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21074	You're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21075	Thank you. We talked all the time about an amendment that wasn't in principle political and we felt that it certainly couldn't be said that it wasn't in accordance with the Constitution, and then here we got all kinds of accusations and stories about who was in charge, who was the minister of military throwing weapons, who was selling weapons. The fact is that the current prime minister of the government as defence minister in that first term, when power was changed in the Republic of Serbia, said the Army is the most orderly system in the country. I don't know how it was the most ordered system if all that was done in 2003 and 2004 and all the years until 2012. We can also talk about who's in charge of the land. You know, you can see, she has a table, that all the presidents of our country, from Tito to Mr Tadic, have been in charge of all those years of the country for half of what this government has done in two and a half years' time. So 14 billion was a debt in 2012, and now it's 23 billion euros in debt. It's a clear math. But let me just say a few more words about this amendment. I would call on MPs to read the current Article 4(5) of the current Law, which is valid, which says: "Serbian Army is an organised armed force that defends the Republic of Serbia." So, how are those words a problem now? Is this law that's in force now or isn't it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21076	Thank you. Minister Selakovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21077	Exactly. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed very often in the Assembly, and I am monitoring assembly sessions on television, and I do not understand what it takes more to happen here so that we know who put the most in charge of the state of Serbia, so to speak, howling in black and left us literally trying to rebuild, build and return everything that previous authorities have put us in charge of over a number of years. Let's be correct once, so tell me how much interest you've been taking in the loans we need today. Not today, but for decades ahead of the generations in Serbia, it will be under the burden of these debts and those almost interest rates that Serbia has agreed to and accepted. Let's be correct once and say, say nice - we did it because we couldn't provide cheaper loans, we did it because we didn't have a way out, we did it because it was a global economic crisis, we did it because we went to elections, so it was necessary, demagogue, who someone just said, to increase both wages and pensions. From where? Of what new production value? From what? You're in charge of commercial banks to pay raises on pensions. Look, no one's done that in Europe. For such things, in some orderly systems, an individual is deprived of his ability to operate his own property, let alone the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21078	Thank you. I'll give my word to Dr. Vladimir Orlic, after the amendment, and please return to the definition of military defense and civil defense, so let's not spread the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21079	Thank you, Madam President. Therefore, it will definitely be subject to the amendment and in line with the invitation of a colleague of one of the proposings of this amendment to look at the current content of point 5. That's right, when we do that, we can't do anything else to remember the words of a colleague of Martinovic – noise about nothing. So when you look at point 5, the current text, when you look at the other side of what is proposed by the amendment, the only difference that exists in relation to what is already contained in the text, is the part that applies to the principles of international law that exist as an obligation when performing the tasks, the only difference. The fact that another amendment promoter incorrectly cited the whole debate on whether or not the army should be organized is another matter. Let's get back to the point and just deal with it. There is already an obligation to respect the principles of international law. It already exists, not introduced by this amendment. It literally changes the language by adding coins – the general recognition, which in no way affects our quality, content, consequences, therefore, only noise and nothing. And all of this had absolutely nothing to do with the paramilitary structures, which also existed as the idea of running for the debate, not even receiving heights, absolutely nothing. If, in response, the Government has already come up with an explanation that the current choice of words is one of the same to the one used in Article 139. The Constitution, come on, please, let's show good faith, so let's respect that if it stands and stands black on white, in Article 139. The constitution will be found from word to word, to the last point of the same formulation as is found in the proposal for the text of the law. Whoever doesn't believe has absolutely the right to see. I keep the text in front of me. Article 139. The Constitution, a small help, is found on page 71 of this book we use during our work. I don't think there's any need to waste any more time on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21080	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just one correction. Article 139 speaks of the Yugoslav Army, and Article 16 speaks of foreign policy, or international relations. When a doctor mixes a member of the 139th Army and makes a combined amendment with international relations and foreign policy, he questions that the military is used exclusively to defend against military and outside threats. What does the army have to do with the country's foreign policy and international relations, it's not clear to me, I'm not a doctor of law, but it's clear that when someone submits an anti-constitutional amendment against the constitution, it's a member of 139, and then tries to take it out on Article 16 to international relations and foreign policy, and while the doctor is a law professor and lecturer at the university, I'm right, as a farmer, as a layman, concerned about the students who attend that university and I don't know what else needs to happen, this country finally makes some new rules that teachers at least prove their knowledge by taking at least an entrance exam at the university where they teach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21082	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21083	Dear President, I ask you to allow me to talk about the amendment that Minister Selakovic spoke or, say, colleague Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21084	No, they're replicating. That's the difference. You go ahead, I'll take your time from authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21085	Mr. Selakovic, I'm sorry that you're not looking a little deeper through time and that time has started for you since 2012, since Serbia with 14 billion debt came to 23 comas something. You forget that you left Serbia devastated by more than 12 unpaid pensions in 2000, that you left Serbia in which the fuel was poured out of plastic bottles, that you left Serbia with foreign reserves of about 230 million, that you left Serbia in which the health care was completely devastated, that you left Serbia with 75,000 members of the then-Yugoslavia Army, in which the army had no boots to buy, that you found 11 billion foreign reserves, with 200 and something at 11, that you found 380 euros in average salary, and you left 50 marks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21086	Ambassador, that has nothing to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21087	Well, what he was saying has nothing to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21088	He's replicated it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21089	He's replicating who?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21090	Please, I'm having a very careful session. The minister's got a replica. You didn't get a replica because no one mentioned you. Go back to point 5. new point 4. add point 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21091	I'm moving on. So, I think the formulation Mr. Janko Veselinovic proposes can stand and does not have to, it will be the decision of the majority, certainly. I don't think this is the way to conduct a debate where Mr. Shormaz will wash his biography, talking about when the army is devastated. Right at the time, Mr. Shormaz, when you supported the government of the Republic of Serbia, with 75,000 soldiers we came down 35,000. It is the darkest time both the armies of Serbia-Montenegro and the Serbian Army. You were most of them back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21092	Thank you. I can't let you say anything about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21093	You didn't understand, but it's an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21094	I understood all of you, that you wanted to replicate, and no one mentioned you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21095	I called at the same time as Mr. Sutanovec. I raised the Rules of Procedure, however, you didn't notice. So, I've come to the presentation of Mr. Sutanovac's predecessor. A rough member of 107 has been injured, Mr. President. You hurt him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21096	Did you say "exposure of the Shutanover"?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21097	Mr. Risticevic. Article 107, last position – at the session of the National Assembly, is not allowed directly to address the other MP, to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. Dear Chairman, I really don't want to deal with the character and the part of the man who said those words. I think that would be unnecessary in this assembly. However, you and the rest of the chairmanship are persistently allowing this MP to destroy the dignity of the National Assembly. In a serious way, it violates the dignity of the National Assembly. While you were not here, there were other violations, which could even cause international complications for the Republic of Serbia. It's not just about me and my personality, and because I've earned everything I've done with my work and my hard work, and because I've got the calling of a university professor, and because I only get one salary and because of what I have, I'd say, and an envious reputation in the academic community. Mr Risticevic cannot assess my expertise and seriously question my expertise without you even warning him, and you are obliged to Article 107, because today there is no MP or opposition or position on the agenda, but it is the Law on the Army and the Defence Act that we need to discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21098	Thank you. I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. I think Ambassador Marijan Risticevic said that one of the applicants was a professor and a doctor and felt that he was not in line with the amendment that was filed. I must say that many MPs, regardless of what parliamentary group they belong to, are given the freedom to settle and ask questions about professional knowledge or professional qualifications of people, both MPs and members of the government. So if we adopt that criterion, I should warn many MPs, not just the MPs of a part here or a group of MPs, but all the MPs, so remember when... (Janko Vesenović, from the place: You can be the subject too. ) Absolutely, yes, absolutely. I agree with that. I'm a lot of things, but I don't react in my case at all. Yeah, I just graduated in 1986, regularly, at the Law School in Novi Sad, state, if that counts at all. Yes, thank you. Can you get back to me after the list is full? The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. (Dear Shormaz, from town: Replica. ) Vesna Rakonjac answered. Just a name, but you'll get word to discuss the amendment. Vesna Rakonjac has already received word. Let's not act like we're in school, get up, sit down. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21099	Thank you, Madam President, dear ministers, we have been discussing something that is not at all controversial for half an hour. The proposed amendment, explained by Mr Blagoja Bradic, clearly stands – Serbia's Army, an organised armed force. That's the same thing in point 5. Serbia's army, organized armed forces. The only difference is in the word they added to "generally recognised principles". The whole story is built on something that doesn't change at all. I ask you to get serious, not to make political marketings that are very expensive and cost our citizens, but to go back to laws that are on the agenda and amendments. We got off to a good start, and we've been discussing something for half an hour that's not at all controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21100	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21101	Of course. I will follow the amendment, not wanting to put you in doubt that the Rules of Procedure, Article 103(1), has been broken. I won't talk about it. I'll talk about the amendment. I want to say in a certain way what I was saying. So, from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have received the opinion that this amendment is unconstitutional. So I came to the conclusion that knowledge and calling are two different concepts. So, as a farmer, if I suggest an amendment and it doesn't comply with the Constitution, that's to be tolerated. If a professor, who is a doctor and teaches at the university, does so far greater consequences than when I do so as a farmer, because the consequences are nothing, no one looks at my title, no one looks at my calling and no one can be harmed. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: Is this an amendment? I'm speaking by amendment. Since the amendment, which was proposed, was unconstitutional, I wanted to clearly draw the line, the one the opposition is trying hard to underline, and that's the difference between calling and knowing. I have no doubt that someone became a doctor, I just suspected that because of an unconstitutional amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21102	Ambassador, please, about the amendment. We're not going to talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21103	I'm talking about the amendment. The explanation says, ma'am, that he's unconstitutional and that I've come to the conclusion that there's a big difference between calling and knowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21104	The word has been made by MP Dragan Shormaz, about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21105	President, I think I have the right to a replica because Mr. Sutanovac said that, at some point, I am speaking here to wash my political career. I don't know if you've heard, but it's literally said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21106	Yeah. You're entitled to a replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21107	Thank you. So I don't know what I'm supposed to wash my political career from. I think she's extremely clean. I'm proud, I'm going along the streets of Serbia, I don't have any problem with the citizens of Serbia. Why? Because I said that Vojislav Kostunica should go into political retirement in 2010 or that the DSS would not pass the censorship after two election cycles, which happened, and that's why they kicked me out of the party. I was right, but I was also saying how DS and Mr. Tadic would go and it turned out I was right. I don't know where I am, in what I was saying, I found Mr. Sutanovec, so that's how he reacts. I absolutely don't understand - why? If there's any reason to disqualify the speaking one, it's completely pointless. I volunteered to protect the Serbian Army institution, because it was said here that such a proposal must be adopted, because we had political situations with paramilitary units. You listen to a little bit of what he's saying. What paramilitary units and what army of Serbia? What kind of situation from that period? What are we doing to the state of Serbia that way when we talk like this here? What are we doing alone, the Serbian Army, who enjoys an extraordinary reputation in the world? It's a remarkable reputation in the world that enjoys it. Wherever the Serbian Army appears, it is the most positive thing spoken of. No wonder the citizens have so much faith in her, and then someone connects her to some paramilitary units, here, in the debate. And now I'm doing my biography, because I tried to protect the Army from such irresponsible statements.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21108	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. He mentioned the party and my name. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Sutanovac. You have no right. We're going back to the amendments. This has gone to some history of politics. You're bickering with each other. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. You have no right. I won't allow it. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21109	I will use my right to speak of the Serbian Army. I don't suppose you'll deny it to me, since you deny the right to the replica when the personal name and party are mentioned. I'm authorized to speak for the party. It is obvious that the free word in this House does not live...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21110	It's not true, but you have a second concept from session to session that you're only allowed whatever you want and that the chairman here is superfluous. So you can talk about the amendment because we're trying to get back to the bill that we've scheduled to argue about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21111	I'm sorry you didn't say that to Minister and Mr. Shormaz when they said...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21112	Yes, and you said something on his account, very persuasive, and I didn't give a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21113	Nothing's pessimistic. All members of the Serbian Army, who are sitting here today, know that the darkest period of the Serbian Army is just at a time when Kostunica...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21114	Thank you. You have no right. You can only answer if you want to talk about the amendment. We will not discuss Vojislav Kostunica because it is not a topic. (National MP Dragan Sutanovac throws out of place. ) Would you like to talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21115	Of course. I know you've come from the road, that you're tired, that you haven't followed the debate, but these are extremely important things, and I would ask you not to interrupt us. So, in the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21116	Ambassador, it is my right to answer that I am not tired at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21117	Okay, looks like it, but never mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21118	I can invite you to a duel, so let's see who's tired.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21119	I wouldn't accept that kind of duel with you. I think what you're saying is a violation of the Serbian parliament's reputation and dignity. I don't know why someone would accept a duel with you. Take care of that fight outside the assembly. Therefore, Article 3 discusses what is called “war challenges, ” and not military, or asymmetric threats are ignored. If we say that there are units in the Serbian Army who are preparing for anti-terrorist facts, why not in line with the strategic documents remain strategic-doctrinal documents in the field of not military challenges, and I mean documents concerning the Anti-Terrorism Strategy and the Anti-Crime Strategy. Both monsters threaten the defence of the Republic of Serbia. In the Army of the Republic of Serbia, there are units who are preparing to fight terrorist acts, and I am not clear, gentlemen, officers, above all, who are you experts, which is why you avoid being involved, to clearly define who is doing what and what is the job of the Serbian Army and in these situations? So, it is not enough that only the National Defence Strategy, the Defence Strategy, the Serbian Army doctrine, stand, we believe, should stand for strategic doctrinal documents in the field of non-war challenges. All the time you've been treating unsolicited challenges, and then when we're passing the law, you're going back to the military alone, and that's something you need to change, because the state of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, through the budget, are supporting units that are being prepared to fight terrorism. Who will edit the anti-terrorism strategy, if not the Ministry of Defence, or if these doctrinal documents are not clearly introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21120	The word has a minister named Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21121	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I ask you not to address the officers of the Serbian Army in this way and to say that they are hiding anything, but to take and to read the National Defence Strategy of the Republic of Serbia where you are clearly precise and combating terrorism. Not everything in this law has to be, but other laws and sublaws regulate this subject. Also, I will ask you to have defence plans in point 7 of the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Serbia, also defined in the fight against terrorism. But, please, one more thing, you mentioned in your replica a number of times before, in a previous session you mentioned certain material means and means of murder, even though as a former minister you had an obligation to keep certain secrets. I know you're having a hard time doing this, and since I have information that you've been looking for a security check to get a certificate, it says here that you've been serving a paramilitary form of JNA. That's why I'm asking you to keep certain information out of your hands, because it is binding on you by the Certificate that you had as Minister of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21122	Thank you. Dragan Sutanovac, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21123	Excuse me, Mr. Minister, how do you know what I wrote in my application, in which I'm certified for the right of access to information? How do you know that? Who gave you the right to make it public? If nothing else, it's personal information, and you're telling the truth. You lied. I served JNA 1987-1988 in Croatia, I was ten months on Velebit, two months in Samobor, I'm not ashamed of that time, it was natural for the military to serve, and what you're saying should be told by the minister of justice. Did you have the right to say it if it says it and it doesn't say it? Where did you get that document? Who delivered this to you? How is it possible for you to have my personal documents? Do you really make a complete mess in this country, like you don't give Lincoln documents, let them go on TV, and now you're reading from personal documents who's what when he's filled in. What's so funny? That's not funny. That's sad. Mr. Knight, the knights of the Charpania, that's right, you're very insecure for such a serious place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21124	Minister Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21125	You know, Mr. People's MP, the court of our or your seriousness is given by citizens of Serbia, not you. I only warned you about the release of certain military secrets that still exist in the Criminal Code, or what is already called the law that treats these military secrets, the Criminal Code. I'm just like you, who've been passing out the last few days of all the information you've heard, so you know you've got from the security citizens who love this country, who care about this country and who want it well, the information that it's written like that. I also served the Yugoslav People's Army, but it wasn't a paramilitary formation like some, so I'm asking you to keep this information public. Secondly, the objection to your amendment that you have submitted I have answered, and if you want to discuss only this, that you do not first read all the other accompanying documents that we have also provided, which everyone has in mind, then we can discuss in this assembly all day and tomorrow and the day after. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21126	The word has been made by MP Dragan Sutanovac after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21127	Mr. Minister, if you allow yourself to be a concerned citizen...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21128	You said after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21129	What did I fill out...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21130	It's not in the amendment. I really need to intervene. Here's your line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21131	It's quite clear, Madam Chairman, what the intensity is. You're not the first one to try it today, it was tried the other day that the opposition would shut up and take away their words. Then when you make a mistake, you swallow that reminder back, because the whole world smiles when you're reminded of something that has no basis. But if the minister here says what someone told him at the bar, he's worried about the safety of the Sutanovac serving a paramilitary formation. At the time I served, there were no paramilitary formations. It may be from the time you became a knight, when Duke Seselj wore that great medal, then the paramilitary formations existed. Mr. Atlagic will tell you best about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21132	Ambassador, you're the former Secretary of Defense. I ask for one seriousness and dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21133	What are you ashamed of?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21134	We're not ashamed of anything, I'm just warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21135	How is it possible, Mrs. Gojkovic? You've got a paramilitary medal at home.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21136	What do I got?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21137	Para-war medals. You're the one who took the piss.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21138	Here, I'll give you all my paramilitary medals.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21139	Don't give it to me, give it to the knight of the Charpania.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21140	I'm really gonna give you a present. You can go to my house. I can't let you deceive the public. I won't let anyone else talk about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21141	Mrs. Gojkovic, I'm right... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21142	Please use your right to remain silent then. We're going to work on the amendments. I cannot answer your honourable messenger to the order, but come take everything, seize everything you find, I give it to you as a spoil of war. National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21143	So the Serbian government adopts an assessment of military and non-military challenges, risks and threats to the country's security, on a proposal from the defence minister. We believe that it should be added – that it adopts a national strategy to fight organised crime, namely to adopt a national strategy to combat terrorism. For what? Because these documents are strategic, doctrinal, are not clearly defined who proposes documents, who makes drafts and who adopts them. I'm going back to the beginning. I'm sorry most people here are nervous and don't understand the things I'm talking about. So there are military and non-war threats. There are warless threats that are even more pronounced in the world today than in the military. Serbia's army is also preparing for non-war threats, possibly even the primary part of Serbia's defence precisely from these non-war threats. I do not see why you are again running away from the possibility of a clear definition of who adopts strategic documents, including a strategy to fight terrorism and a strategy to fight organised crime that threatens the entire system in Serbia as a monster, thus jeopardising Serbia's military. I don't know why it's an argument that doesn't have to. I think you're showing Mr. Minister, one arrogance not by accepting amendments that have been working on a highly qualified and legal team of members of the Serbian Army and former officers, extremely high rank. I think you're simply showing a complete lack of understanding what the job of Parliament is and what your job is. If you want to continue some of our dialogues, I'm willing to sit with you on any TV show, say at a public service, and face opinions and see who did what, how much he did, when he did, and make it clear to everyone, and not to have a debate here where you have unlimited time, and I'm taking away the word and when my name and my party are mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21144	The word has Minister Gasic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21145	What you're talking about, with all the respect and all the offices that participated, the armies of Serbia in making that amendment and helping you write it, you had to know that everything you mentioned now, and for the sake of the knowledge and knowledge of the people's MPs and the public of Serbia, everything is in the documents that the MIP is dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21146	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21147	In article 6, complete absurd. It is said that – the Ministry of Defence performs tasks relating to point 36) – education and organisation of financial services at the Ministry of Defence, Commands, Units, etc. This, in my knowledge, is the financial profession that has put pressure on it to just be singled out, and given that you have officers sitting next to you who are not from the financial service other than the gentleman who is on your right, but some other services, technically, possibly intelligent, informational, are asking the question - why is the primate given exclusively to the financial service? I understand the secretary of state, who you're smiling about, which is why you're a financier, so I guess that's a fascination, you should have gone to the finance ministry if you thought it could contribute to the defense system. The second thing, at point 38), is the organisation and improvement of the information system in the field of material and financial business. What about the information systems that exist? The information system that treats the personnel? The famous KAIS. The health information system, the VOJEVID information system, the obligation of defence, General Lackovic knows perfectly what it is. Why will these systems not be promoted but exclusively material financial business? So we think that in the first part we should delete, organize services, service to all who exist. In the second part, they should be added as it says here - information systems according to the adopted standards. What are all the information systems, I guess we can't even think about what an information system can be that will be interesting and necessary for the Army of Serbia. So it's also one of the amendments that was seen to be a mistake. Of course, I believe you'll have an explanation and I'm wondering which one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21148	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21149	Thank you, Madam President. I really can't understand. You're criticizing something you brought back in 2009. You keep going out with criticism on account of something you brought. So 34a. Education and organisation of financial services at the Ministry of Defence Commands of Units of the Serbian Army, military units and military institutions. It's in the law that you adopted in 2009. You're criticizing him today. You're not saying we could have improved, you're saying we're treating him again in the new law. Read the Law on the Budgetary System, which the Ministry of Defence must also stick to, Article 12, the direct beneficiary of the budgets educates the service that prepares the proposal for a financial plan and requests for the implementation of approved adoptrations, draws up a report etc. Here's why this is legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21150	By amendment, Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21151	Mr. Minister, at the very beginning of my conference, I said that it is good to approach the amendments and additions of both of these laws in 2009 because in 2011, there are things that need to be changed and I have no problem saying that the 2009 law is exceeded, but I have no problem accepting what is good you do, as well as saying what is not good to be accepted. What does the Budgetary System Act mean? How does he define the education and organisation of financial services, the Budgetary System Act that is adopted every year? This is a law that should not depend on the Budgetary System Act. You're refusing the amendment because I filed it. It's your honor. I say only to you: there will be no distraction in my life, but there will be a distraction for you and the people who work in other services, because they will not be able by law to receive what is coming to them as well as for the service. It's a fact and it was seen years ago. If you think you're criticizing me, I accept criticism. You criticized me when we went on peace missions, and today you boast that you have a tremendous reputation for the Army. Yes, this is where your former president, Mr. Nikolic, said it was a betrayal of the country. So then Mr. Prime Minister, when he was the defence minister, said he saw a mistake, that he didn't understand it and that he now supports peacekeeping missions. So you went to visit the peacemakers in Cyprus. You see how that changes from the attitude that you are against it, you support it, and then colleague Shormaz says the Serbian Army has never had a higher reputation. Thanks to that, but if we'd waited for you, we'd have stayed in that year 2000. So I urge you not to see this through me as a minister or through the parliament that adopted it in 2009. Today, changes and additions are being adopted to improve. If you are unable to accept, say – we do not want your amendments, that is not the problem. Don't give me arguments that are unsuspecting, that don't drink water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21152	Minister Gasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21153	Thank you, Madam Chairman. As a knight of the Kruševci, I'm very proud of the carpentry when someone gives me a gift, not at the expense of the Ministry of Defense, to do my character and my work on it. We all know that everything in the Serbian Army starts with you and from that moment on, but you must know one thing. Let us discuss today, improve the law and make quality solutions, primarily in the interest of members of the Serbian Army. Budgetary system law is not passed every year. Budget law is passed every year. This is where you mix. There's no problem with anyone sitting here with me today, any of the MPs proposing an amendment, if he can significantly improve a member of the law, to accept, either yours or anyone's. Don't ask us to tell political stories, but to discuss amendments both to the law and to a member of the law so that he will be better primarily because of the RS and members of the Serbian Army. Also, you're talking about how you sent members of the Serbian Army on peacekeeping missions, and from 2000 to 2012, all of the members of the Serbian Army who were on peacekeeping missions to add. In 2013 alone, a double number of members of the Serbian Army were on peacekeeping missions. It's the data that exists. You can't hide that. When you've taken such a stand so suddenly, and in 2015, we have an even 50% higher number of members of the Serbian Army in peacekeeping missions, it's accurate, the enormous reputation of the RS...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21154	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21155	... It is precisely the members of the Serbian Army who are in these peace missions and who, by their knowledge, have shown by their quality how good the country is and how well-trained soldiers live in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21156	Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejm Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Shaip Kamberi, Riza Halimi and Enis Imamovic. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21157	Thank you, Madam President. Our amendment sets out the required obligation of the Ministry of Defence to establish, in co-operation with other ministries and other state bodies, all facts relating to crimes against the civilian population committed by members of the permanent and reserve membership of the Yugoslav Army. It is this amendment that we encourage the rule of law, which is prescribed by the Constitution, that we encourage legal certainty and restore the trust of members of national minorities in state bodies. That is why it is necessary to shed light on and process all the crimes committed by members of the Yugoslav Army. One of these cases that has not been illuminated so far, nor has the appropriate court proceedings been initiated is the shelling of the village of Kukurovici in the municipality of Priboj when members of the Uži Corps of the Yugoslav Army carried out a foot-and-mouth attack on February 18, 1993. During the attack, three citizens of our country of Bosniak nationality were killed – Zemir Bulatovic, Fatima Sarac and Musan Husovic. Other residents from the village of Kukurovici have escaped, while the village of Kukurovic has almost completely burned out. We absolutely support efforts to raise citizens' confidence in the military, but let's talk about all citizens and what it takes to do to raise confidence in all citizens. The Ministry of Defence in this segment must take all the legal measures and activities that will lead to the lighting of the crimes committed, and then the launch of appropriate judicial proceedings against responsible members of the then Yugoslav Army. The adoption of this amendment confirms the fundamental objective of the rule of law and the objective of protecting each individual from the abuse of the holder of state authorities. I really don't see any reason why this amendment should not be accepted, because it foresees military co-operation with other ministries and other state bodies in solving these cases. I really don't want to believe that the ministry doesn't trust each other. Once again, I would like to stress that it is commendable that it is working to increase the confidence that citizens should have in the military, however, it is also necessary to appreciate the sufferings that these people have survived. If you had adopted this amendment, it would have meant your good will to build that trust with the Bosniaks as well. In this way we are still far from that trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21158	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21159	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly to answer, the ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as fellow ministers, have a very high trust in each other and we have institutional trust in the ministries with which each of us, as head of one ministry, is working together. I respect your desire to shed light on all crimes, regardless of what nationality or religion is, both the victim and the perpetrator. There's been a lot of crime against the military. That should also be sanctioned, as well as any case where you say there is a basis of doubt, so that the National Assembly does not judge and accuse who did what and who is responsible for what. This is what competent authorities do in Serbia. The state of Serbia is one of the few who owns special specialised judicial authorities dealing exclusively with the processing of war crimes. As you could see in the recent, previous period, this is being worked intensively, and the basic reason I think you've gotten very clear and precise in the explanation of not accepting this amendment by the Government, which is that this particular matter is the subject of regulation of other laws. The Ministry of Defence, and as someone at the head of the justice department, i.e. the department of justice, I know very well, very devoted, open and consecratedly co-operates with the judicial authorities, with the Ministry of Justice, and I absolutely trust that these things will be enlightened as much as there is evidence and that, impartially, justly and under the Constitution and law, everyone who is suspected of committing any crime, including criminal acts of war crimes, will be prosecuted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21160	Thank you. The 6th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21161	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable representatives of the Republika Srpska Army, dear guests, we said, when it comes to this amendment and the principle debate of the other day, that this law essentially does not improve the security system, but rather maintains the current state of political power and that in some way the government is concentrated towards the Minister of Defence, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, to reduce the powers of the President of the Republic of Serbia, or the Chief of Staff. So, not at all entering any dissonant tones between the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we said here that the Defence Ministry Inspectorate and that its competencies were very well placed, it was a positive thing. What was the subject and in the principle of debate is that we were interested in this relationship between the Minister or the President of the Republic in case in certain situations they should encourage the Inspectorate of certain actions, investigative actions, where today, according to such amendments and additions, the Inspectorate has broad powers, from the investigation to the application of what was found to be incorrect, and we think that in this sense this amendment speaks of the provisions that you have proposed being very vague. What is the intensity of this law is to change the focus of power from the President of the Republic of Serbia to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is quite clear to you, but on the other hand, we can define this amendment in a few specific norms and thus, in a comprehensive way, solve this dilemma as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21162	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, for the need to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21163	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again, as I said, I believe in good faith to improve the regulation, but still, we can't mix things up that shouldn't be mixed. The competencies of the President of the Republic are, in addition to the Constitution, prescribed by the Law on the President of the Republic. When it comes to the functioning of ministries, competences are prescribed by the Ministry Act, and the functioning of ministries as authorities of the state administration has been regulated by the State Administration Act. The inspectorate is an authority within the Ministry of Defence, and the defence minister is responsible for the work of the Ministry of Defence of the National Assembly and the Government. It is precisely prescribed cases in which, due to the situation of war, the President of the Republic has certain powers in this area as well. Of course the government could accept this amendment, but that would be irresponsible. You cannot change the powers of the President of the Republic by such an amendment, you cannot change the powers of the Minister of Defence, because it is prescribed by the Ministry of Defense Act, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence and what tasks of the State Administration, or the tasks of the State Administration from which the Department of Defence is operating. Even if the amendment is correct, put in one provision of the law that the President of the Republic and the Government have the right to impose inspection in certain cases, what are certain cases? It's such a broad formulation. I'm saying, even if it's correct in that respect, the amendment, and it's not. Another thing, say - the government is right. The government has the right to order something from the defence minister, the defence minister is a member of the government. What you're essentially saying, and as far as the government is concerned, it's absolutely undeniable and according to the current provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21164	Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21165	Thank you. Mr. Selakovic, I don't know why you're here today. There are things about politics, not just rights, and this is a purely political issue that Mr. Balsha has raised. The fact is that we have given amendments in which greater powers or the ability to learn information are given to the president and to the parliamentary committee. "The Defence Inspectorate shall report to the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Minister of Defence and the committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the phenomena of a major violation of independence and illegal influence on the work of inspectors and other persons authorised to carry out inspection tasks. “ What would be the issue? If the inspectorate informs the minister, we know that the military is commanded by the president, not by the minister, why not inform the president? If we know that the minister has been elected to parliament and that he in some way corresponds to the Defence and Security Committee, why would the Inspectorate not inform the Committee and thus make it transparent to all those institutions that are relevant for the work and the Ministry of Defence and for security in this country? So this is no longer a legal question, this is a matter of politics, will you give the Inspector an opportunity to inform the President of the Republic? I guess you won't. It's obvious you want to take his authority and transfer it to the Secretary of Defense. I don't know why, but it can be read very clearly. Now, if you're going to give it to the board of directors, that depends, of course, on the majority here, which makes that committee responsible, whether it will support this amendment. I think that this is how we introduce a higher level of civil control of the armed forces, namely informing us parliamentarians who ultimately vote for both the minister and the budget and all the documents. I think it's a better solution than it's been in the Law since 2009, that you don't have a dilemma, that it doesn't happen again, when this law was passed, that's when it wasn't. It wasn't and it was a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21166	Thank you. The word has a minister named Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21167	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the opposition's staunch representatives are returning to the political field, and they want these laws to ask some political questions as well. One of these was why Minister Selakovic, as justice minister, is helping and representing the government's views here today. There, of course, is also the vice-president of the Serbian Progressive Party and has absolutely the right to bring a political court about it. You ask and insist, here, on the second day, mix the jurisdiction of the Defense Inspectorate and the Defense Inspector. The defence inspectorate's report as an integral part of the defence ministry is being submitted to this Assembly for adoption and is an integral part of the report. The defence inspector was elected by the government of the Republic of Serbia and is obliged to hand over his reports to the Security Committee. You're mixing the role of president and we understand why you're trying to do this. But I think you're on the wrong track. The president as commander-in-chief has all these reports under the defence ministry's report and he gets them neatly, and from the defence inspectorate, which is an integral part of the defence ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21168	The word has Minister Selakovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21169	Thank you. Your Honor, Madam President, I thank you for giving me the floor based on the replica, because my words are completely misread. So, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, with all due respect to all the ministries, according to all the authorities, the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, but not the law on the military, nor the law on defence, are not the only laws in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The inspection was arranged by the State Administration Act. As far as I know, the finalisation of the text of the new inspection control law is under way. The law will be prescribed, and the current Law on State Administration prescribes what are the tasks of the state administration, who conducts these tasks, among other things, among them the work of inspection oversight. The Ministry of Defence shall also be responsible for carrying out inspection tasks through its body as part of the Inspectorate under the Ministry of Defence, as a special body of the State Administration as part of the Ministry of Defence. There is no single case that independent of the ministry in the composition of an inspection body, the body fully independently and independently comes forward to any other body of the state administration, bypassing the one directly appointed by it. On the other hand, it's said, it's a political issue. Inspectorate supervision must not and cannot be a political issue. So absolutely not, and it can't be. I believe in your good will and your desire to extend jurisdiction and authority to both the President of the Republic and the Government. But, let me, there's something here called a legal system, where there's no difference between an inspectorate in defence from an administrative inspectorate, from a veterinary inspectorate, from an educational inspection, from any other inspection services that operate in our legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21170	Thank you. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Replica! The replica doesn't... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: "Why not?" Your Honor, let me just finish my sentence. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: The minister misread me and accused me of not understanding.) He didn't charge you. That's how everyone could do it. I'll let you talk about the amendment. The minister didn't replicate, and I have to tell the minister, but he was talking about the amendment, so I'm going to include them for the entire time. So there was no replica, and here you are, using your time, you can interpret your opinion by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21171	What you're doing is totally inappropriate. You just gave the Minister a word because it's misread, and when I mention it, when you ask a question and when it's said that I don't understand something, you don't give me a word. This is one congregation mobing you've been doing here over us for a long time that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21172	Both, it seems, and with me. Anyway, you got the word, as you can see.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21173	Sure, but you can stand up and move out of there. So, Mr. Selakovic, the Serbian Army cannot compare with any other authority in the country, since there is dualism in command and leadership. The Defence Inspectorate stresses the proposal, according to the president of the Republic of Serbia, the defence minister, so there is no bypass, the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the phenomena of a major violation of independence and illegal influence on the work of inspectors. Excuse me, but who can influence the work and make independence impossible? Well, it's the minister. So if the minister has an impact on the work, the inspector should appeal to the minister. Are you following what I'm talking about? I see you find something funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21174	Ambassador, you can't have a session. So whoever laughs, doesn't laugh, there's the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21175	But you can't see, you're looking at them in the back. This is a very important thing to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21176	I have all the screens, the cameras, and you focus on the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21177	So here we have a situation that is current, where the goat keeps the cabbage. That's not good. Who's the inspector gonna complain about if the minister's on him, like you guys are on us here? Minister! Well really, it's a higher degree of control, it's an honor. I say, it is bad, you don't have to adopt, but you will come here, as other MPs have announced, from Mr Stojanovic, through Mr Arsenovic, who said that we will be changing this law very soon. Why change it again? Well, because it's no good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21178	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21179	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear ministers, respected guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Article 17a, as the motioner gave in his explanation, has more specifically arranged the matter of inspection control in defence. The proposed solution is based on Article 12. The Ministry Act, which has been educated as an authority of the defence department within the Ministry of Defence and is in line with the regulations governing the organisation and work of the Serbian Army and the regulations on inspection from the work of the state administration's body. Article 17, as the Ministry has proposed, says – the inspector and the other person authorised to carry out inspection tasks are independent of work, within the limits of the powers laid down by law and other regulations. The Defence Inspectorate shall report to the Minister of Defence on the occurrence of a major violation of the independence of the illegal influence on the work of the inspectors and other persons authorised to carry out inspection tasks. We suggested two positions, like the third and fourth. The third view would read: “A defence inspector will inform, if necessary, the committee responsible of the National Assembly when it is aware that the minister has not removed the illegality or irregularity in the work established by the inspector, or another authorised person in the conduct of the inspection work. ” The following is said: “The Defence Inspectorate’s orders are given an annual report to the National Assembly’s committee. ” A member ends up as suggested by the Ministry. So I wouldn't waste my time, an explanation of why we suggested it. "The draft law introduces and acquires independence in the work of inspectors, inspectorates and other persons empowered to carry out inspection tasks. In addition, according to the draft law, the Defence Inspectorate shall report to the Minister of Defence on the occurrences of a major violation of independence and illegal influence on the work of inspectors and other persons authorised to carry out inspection tasks. “ These are solutions that need to be welcomed and supported. It's all right. However, since a breach of independence may also occur from the minister, we consider it necessary to provide for the possibility that the Defence Inspectorate should, if necessary, inform the National Assembly, or its committee, in view of Parliament's control function in relation to the execution. I think it's a good idea if the National Assembly adopts such an amendment because in the event that the minister violates a system and does not act on the orders of a regular inspector, he should carry out the National Assembly. At the very end of the line, we're the ones who bring laws here. I fully understand the arguments given by the minister of justice and the defence minister on this article so far. But, gentlemen, fellow MPs, we make laws. So if we agree to be informed of everything that happens at the Ministry of Defense, a certain service before an irregularity, order correction, and the minister does not act, we have the right to know. We have the right to settle it with the law. If we are authorized to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I do not see why we cannot change the law and something that is within the Ministry of Defence, by order of us, the MPs, through the adoption of amendments and this member of the law, we must be obliged to be informed of what is happening at the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21180	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21181	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Ministers, we talked about this and in principle debate. So we believe that democratic and civilian control of the work of the military should be strengthened at every opportunity. This amendment is one step in this direction, which is - we are opening up the possibility that the defence inspector, if necessary, in a situation where he has knowledge that the minister has not removed the illegalities or irregularities in the work, which has been identified by the inspector or the other authorised person in the affairs of inspection supervision, shall inform the committee responsible of the National Assembly. The other thing that we predicted was that once a year, the annual report of its own which has been contained in the Ministry's work report, was that it was particularly submitted to the National Assembly's competent committee. We believe that strengthening the control role of the committee is a positive matter and that there can never be too much of it, especially in a situation where the mechanisms that exist in the current laws and Rules of Procedure are not respected. Repeat, the defence minister did not submit a report to the Committee for the last quarter of 2014. We received a written report for the third quarter of 2014, but we never discussed it on the Committee. The last time the Defence and Home Affairs Committee discussed the defence minister's report in July 2014, six months ago, as well as the last time the government was here to answer MPs' questions. So, constantly by this government and the parties in power, the vice-president of the party and Mr. Minister, who has now come out, is reducing parliament's role in democratic control, in civilian control of the military, specifically in this case. We therefore believe that there is absolutely room to strengthen the role of the committee, to enable the inspector to address himself in a particular situation, which, the relevant committee of the Republic Assembly, and that this annual report, which the minister said, has repeatedly repeated, is in an annual report that we have not yet been able to see. Maybe there is, maybe it's working on it, yeah, here, it's only the end of January of the month, maybe we'll get it by the summer. But let's see that report separately. Maybe that inspectorate is a little more up-to-date than a minister who, here, can't put together that report for a month. Not to mention, three months of reports are not being delivered and not coming to the board to discuss them. We believe it is in the Parliament's interest to adopt this amendment, that this will allow for better quality democratic civilian control of the work of the Serbian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21182	Thank you. The word has a minister named Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21183	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and last time, two days ago, I said, in the knowledge that I couldn't be present on the last board, when we submitted the report until September. For the last quarter of 2014, the report is done, the Ministry of Defence of its reports, as provided for by law, neatly delivers, but you must call us and call the board. We can't call the board on you. Thank you for worrying about our time with the report, but you have to call the board and invite us to come forward and submit our report. It's in the jurisdiction of the Assembly Committee, not ours. So, the Ministry all reports, everything prescribed by law, neatly and in time, delivers when requested. As far as the inspectors are concerned, I repeat again, you have a report from the Defense Inspectorate in a joint report from the Ministry of Defence, as an integral part of it. That's what the government and the National Assembly and the President of the Republic get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21184	National MP Marko Djurisic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21185	Thank you. That is exactly what I was talking about, that the ruling party, in every way possible, is reducing the role of parliament. The chairman of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee is from your party. The president of the Committee calls for meetings, not MPs of the opposition. We don't have that right. We pointed out at the committee's distribution that it was bad for the chairman of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as for the chairman of the Committee on Security Control to be representatives of the ruling parties, to reduce the ability of control, because the presidents are calling meetings, not members of the Committee. We can't call a meeting. And why should we call a meeting, even if we could, when you don't? You said yourself you couldn't. So we have to make a deal with you, see when you can, and then eventually call it in, but I won't defend the president of the Committee, so let her do it. So, bad practice, that's what I was talking about, is that the ruling party is working to reduce the control role of parliament, through one control mechanism, by submitting the report to the Assembly committees. So, it's bad practice and I was talking about it, the ruling party is working to reduce control, the control role of parliament, parliament through one mechanism, control through reporting on the Assembly committees. So we can't call a session to be called by the ruling majority, members of your party. We'll come as we come to every committee and discuss and be constructive, and you have, among other things, the conclusion of the board. After the event at the Pride Parade in 2014 where we were looking for reports from the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence and about the events, there is a board conclusion, the Ministry of the Interior sent you a report, you never sent us a report.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21186	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, you must be looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how true what Mr. Djurisic is saying is the best testimony to the fact that, for today, at 13.00 hours, Mr. Djurisic's session of the Security and Security Control Committee is scheduled in an hour. We are so afraid of Mr. Djurisic and his arguments that Mr. Momir Stojanovic called for that session and, of course, next to Defence Minister and Mr. Sasa Jankovic, Protector of Citizens. Well, here's what I'm inviting you to do, Mr. Djurisic, and come to that board session, present all your arguments, but allow that session to be held with the SNS and held by the defence minister. So, we're not afraid of anything, we've set up a committee, and in your day it was a practice not to call for board meetings or citizens' protectors or any other independent state bodies that you're so soully defending. Mr. Zoran Babic explained to you nicely that by 2012 you had not adopted a single report of the same Sasa Jankovic as the Protector of Citizens. And what you're saying is that it's not a good practice for representatives of the ruling parties to be the heads of the Defence and Security Committee, so I have to remind you, and who was the head of the Defence and Security Committee at the time you were in power in the Republic of Serbia? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Dragan Todorovic. What about Dusan Bajatovic? What was he?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21188	Ambassador, speak to me. You're not allowed to communicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21189	Well, I just want to tell Mr. Djurisic he seems to have a short memory, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21190	Thank you for that. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21191	I hope this is the right to a replica, respected chairman. Thank you. So, the chairman of the board at the beginning of the term of office in 2008 was the chairman of the opposition of the Defence and Security Committee, as the committee was then called. Unfortunately for the president's obstruction for a year and a half or two days, he couldn't work. In order to unblock the committee's work, the board president has been changed and was Mr. Dusan Bajatovic, it is for the sake of truth, full and complete. I don't think it's a good practice, and I supported the practice of taking over someone from the opposition, and in 2010, no one wanted to. You U.S.S.S.S. didn't want to. Serbian radical parties, you didn't want it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21192	Ambassador, did you make a mistake?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21193	No, SRS MPs where Mr. Martinovic was in 2010 refused to take office as chairman of the board when Mr. Todorovic was removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21194	And you were any party at the time? Please tell me it would be clearer to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21195	Here, I'll tell you which one I was in, if you tell me which ones you were strangers in. Who were you strangers in?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21196	Because of the public only, because when do we go back to that history?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21197	Why don't you tell the public where you've been?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21198	I will, just say the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21199	Here's what you say first, so I'll tell you, if you can remember, because I know very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21200	I will. I thank you for your kind words and for your proper address to the president.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21201	I think your address was much less appropriate than mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21202	Of course, I accept your grade. Go ahead. I accept everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21203	So, then the Citizens' Protector, at the time, had no refusal by the defence minister to deliver some document as we now have a case and which is why the Security Control Committee will be sitting today. After a story and a story that lasts for days why Mr. Protector of the Citizens didn't get the documents he asked for from the minister. It didn't happen then, because there was respect for the law and the Constitution at that time, unlike the present time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21204	Thank you. Although you haven't answered my question. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21205	The Honorable Chairman, Members 106 and 107 were injured. First, on the agenda of course, and 107, because Parliament's dignity is rudely offended here, especially when it is said that the Citizens' Protector, that he was not then refused to be given certain documents. The truth is, he never asked for a single document because he never did his job. And today he's obviously doing something quite tenth. I say very well, but it doesn't matter, that's why today will be a session of the Committee where everything will be absolutely nice, clearly explained. There's no point in lying about the Department of Defense not wanting to deliver the documents. The Department of Defense respects the law because these documents are primarily in the prosecution. If someone wants to break the law, let them just go on as they once did, we won't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21206	You said an injury to members 106 and 107. As for Article 106, only on the agenda point, the MP had a replica, was not obliged to talk about the agenda point. So that doesn't stand. The 107th member respects the dignity of the National Assembly, I have no comment on what the president has to do. Everyone here is talking about how they want and what they want, at least on the subject, so I believe that the president or chairman of nothing has hurt the dignity of the Assembly or hurt the Rules of Procedure otherwise they would turn into censors all day long. Do you want MP Djukanovic to vote on the injury. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: No. No, no, no, Thank you. Now the replica of Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, so I give the minister my word that he can respond to the amendment if we remember Ambassador, take the Rules of Procedure and read what that member looks like about replicas. [[Balša Bozovic, from the place: How to replica it.]] So it's not a replica on the replica, it's a replica and it's not a closed circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djurisic just confirmed what I said. So it is true that the ruling party's representative was the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee. I said it and it was Mr. Dusan Bajatovic. What is not true is that original President Dragan Todorovic has been replaced by the Defence and Security Committee because he allegedly had some obstruction. Well, by the logic of things, a member of the opposition begs God to come into a position to be chairman of the Defence and Security Committee so as not to better control the executive power. But you wanted to have everything in your hands. You, Mr. Djurishic, have changed the practice of reminding you of that. The President of the Administrative Board should be a representative of the opposition. Is that right? And you've changed that practice. Well, you had the chairman of the Administrative Board and the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee and so on. This practice that you have introduced, we are suddenly responsible for this practice. I have the impression that you think I should now be afraid to say that in 2010, when you were doing what you were doing, you were MPs of the SRS. Of course I was, like you were MP to DS, but that doesn't matter at all. The important thing is that you have introduced practice for the ruling party to be the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee. And as for the Guardian of the Citizens, that martyr couldn't say a single word because you absolutely ignored him. So it's like he didn't even exist. And at that time, the Citizens' Protector pointed out some mistakes in the conduct of government and so on, but you pretended that the state institutions in Serbia were not there.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21208	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21209	If something is good from these replicas, it is that now the word – martyr, allowed in parliament, is obviously used and that one representative of a state body is qualified as – martyr but well. So, a respected colleague, if it is a good practice for opposition representatives to be at the head of some important committees, as you said, and that the opposition's right to be president of the Administrative Committee was then denied, who is today the chairman of the Administrative Board? Who's today? Who today is the chairman of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee? What party is it from? From which party is the chairman of the Committee on Security Control, Justice, Finance? If we've introduced the bad practice you're talking about, why don't you change it, why don't you show it, why don't you step out more? I am telling you, on the contrary, that we have begun our term of office with the opposition's representative standing on this committee. The board couldn't do exactly what we're looking for today as an opposition to discuss the ministry's report. At the time, the board president did not call for meetings at which the reports coming from the ministries could be discussed. He didn't call the sittings with that agenda, someone with some other agenda called the sessions. Then he was replaced and then a year and a few days ago he was not the chairman of the committee and only in the end, so after two, two and a half years, Mr Dusan Bajatovic, your coalition partners today, became the chairman of the committee, so that the committee could do the task he was given to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21210	Thank you, Ambassador. Please return to the amendment. The amendment discusses reports to be made to the committee responsible... (Alexandar Martinovic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I'll give you a replica. Injuring the Rules of Procedure can only be an abuse because I see you will surely replicate So, since you're asked the question of who's chairman of the board directly, I have to give you a replica. [[Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Are you giving me a replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21211	Thank you, Madam President. What Mr. Djurisic did not tell us, and what is very important, excuse us, Mr. Djurisic and who controlled the security service, the military and the MUP during that period of the year when Dragan Todorovic was removed and when Dusan Bajatovic was appointed? Who? Nobody. Who's responsible for that? You who were in power back then. That's one thing. The second thing, in order to have the presidents of all these committees that you're talking about right now, allow me, you have to win a little more votes in the election and you have to have a little more MPs than you have right now. You can't have 6% of the votes won in the election to have presidents on all committees or on committees that you want. I have to remind you, that period we're talking about, the elections were in May 2008. That's when the single SRS won, if I'm not mistaken for 78 mandates. How much did you win in March 2014? So the disproportion is huge. I think you should know what it says in the Rules of Procedure. Presidential seats on committees and the number of committee members depend on the number of MPs your parliamentary group has. The fact that it is your small parliamentary group, it is not Bratislav Gasic, Alexander Martinovic, or Maja Gojkovic, you are likely to blame the citizens. Try to change the people. The people rated you as bad, and the people gave you as many votes as they gave you. What you'd like to have the presidents of the board of those and those, that's nice, but you'll have to wait for some new elections, show up in those elections, and then have a lot more MPs than you have right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21212	According to the amendment, Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21213	I wanted to make a request. Just now, Mr. Martinovic said that the chairman of the Security Control Committee has scheduled a meeting, did not say that the meeting was the fruit of the initiative, which was signed by the board members Mr. Bogdanovic and I, and at whom we heard it was Minister Gasic and Galactic Jankovic. I would ask you to, if we can agree to take a break in duration... I'm speaking to you, President. It's important that you hear. So, I'd ask you to give us a break in time for the Security Control Committee, because a good part of the people who are currently taking part in this debate will be there, and we can't be in two places, and I think if you don't give us that opportunity, then obviously you want to disabling either this part of Parliament or the Security Service Control Committee. This is an appeal and a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21214	I thank you, MP. I'm not consulted on the time of the Committee's session, and I'm not going to take a break, because the president's been passed to agree on how the session will be held and when the committee is scheduled. I answer to you, so I won't be able to go out on a date, because I was planning a different session, a vote, an appointment of the next session, so it's not up to you or me. I'm sorry about that too, and the government had to mandate another minister to defend the amendments in front of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21215	This means they don't want control at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21216	Minister, do you want to respond to the amendment or not? (Bratislav Gasic, from the post: No comment. Now you're giving up. Thank you. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Do you want a word? The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21217	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honourable ministers, respected representatives of the Republika Srpska Army, honored guests, this amendment is the consequence of the previous two that we have signed and made Mr. Dejan Nikolic and I. What is related to this amendment is the story we had about the division of jurisdiction and what is really the essence of these changes, which is that one large part of the power is transferred from the Chief of Staff and the President of the Republic to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or to the Minister or Ministry of the Army. We had the opportunity to hear from Minister Selakovic, who is not currently in the hall, that this is only a legal and not political issue, I don't know what the issue is, then, between the President of the Republic and the Government of Serbia, whether legally or internally a party SNS, but I would really like what we said at the beginning and in the principle debate, to say that what is incorrect in defining when it comes to the Defence Act, that in this way is a little more precise. Of course, Mr. Sutanovac, as former defence minister, gave a much more comprehensive and better explanation than I did personally for the simple reason that this was not only his topic, but he was someone who ran this ministry for a longer period of years and, of course, with all the opportunities we had to discuss here, was one of the most successful defence ministers in the history of the Republic of Serbia's Army. I would really like you, Mr. Gasic, in your career and when it comes to the export of the military industry and when it comes to investing in the military and the budget for the Army of the Republic of Serbia, to those levels where they were while Minister Sutanovac led this portfolio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21218	Thank you. The word has the defence minister Bratislava Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when professional people write amendments, then take a look at a law in which it is clearly defined that the President of the Republic can at any moment order extraordinary supervision, emergency inspection supervision and this law has not been abolished. His Office of Military Affairs can order at any moment, and here you have a clear explanation written. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed Article 16 paragraph 3 is intended for inspection of operational and functional capabilities, units and institutions of the Serbian Army to be carried out under the approval and order of the President of the Republic. We know that everything started with one man and the Army of Serbia was created and military health and military education came from one man, thank you. We can't have results when it comes to the budget, the same, because at the time of that big minister and the Pension Insurance Fund was part of the Ministry's budget and the Social Security Fund was also an integral part of that budget, so there are a little different rules of mathematics for those who, on Twitter, throw out some tables and parallel cuts, but you need to know what was in the Army of Serbia's budget at the time, and what is it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21220	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21221	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable ministers, the distinguished representatives of the Army, we also said in a debate in the principle that intelligence and security matters of importance for defence are today called security-intelligence and the focus is transferred from intelligence to a security aspect. So, from the outside to the internal enemy. Why was this the DS amendment? For the simple reason that we are concerned as representatives of the citizens that because of all this that the Citizens' Protector claims, about potential monitoring, recording, listening to representatives and leaders of the opposition and other citizens of Serbia and that is something that really poses a major threat to our democratic system. What is the intensity of this amendment is that, first of all, both the explanation and the explanation, and on the other hand, if you can understand how dominant fear is today among the citizens of Serbia, and if you, as Minister of the Republic of Serbia, do not know that, we do not, and this amendment is not for the sake of us, but for the citizens of Serbia. Fear today is a dominant feeling among Serbian citizens. All unauthorized recording, listening and tracking is something that doesn't belong to any democratic order, and I really think that this is something that the Protector of the Guns has already had on several occasions to apostrophe that you as Minister of Defense and your Ministry of Defense do not want in this regard and in accordance with the information received by the Citizens' Protector, that the Ministry of Defense does not want to come forward and that this information or the requested information or documents the Ministry of Defense refuses to deliver. Why, we really want to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21222	I thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I would like to answer the question asked about the amendment. Mr. Bozovicu, you did not serve the Army, unfortunately, and then by definition, you mix a lot of things, and your advisors should have told you that in all the other documents that you brought during his Majesty's defence minister, it says in them exactly how we now change it in the law. So that's when you passed the law where you changed the title-intelligence security business, and in all other documents you wrote security-intelligence data. That's the answer to the question of why it's being coordinated now. On the fear of Serbian citizens who are ruling, as you say, because the principles of democracy that you have set, I invite you to attend a session of the Committee that will begin in less than 40 minutes, and I will be very happy to show you and the citizens of Serbia who are party presidents at which time they are trying or not trying to be tapped, so that the fear of Serbian citizens, without any problems, will be removed in 40 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21224	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21225	Thank you, Your Honor. I, by the way, asked you in the last session that when things like this are said to react, because this is unacceptable for someone to spread paranoia among citizens, amongst the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by allegedly blowing up information about how someone is listening to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's something that's inadmissible. When we talk about the amendment itself, let's tell the citizens of Serbia -- it's submitted just to get someone to come forward and tell things like this that have nothing to do with the truth. The truth is, when we talk about listening, I'm glad that, among other things, the former defence minister admitted that they bought a device in due time without knowing it. You, Mr. Gasic, told us that it was secretly purchased, in some secret purchase, whatever. I can believe that they actually did it once, and if that were true, the fact is, they even wrote a newspaper, that it was just from the BIA that they were hunting for. Among other things, I was one of the actors of this whole affair, unfortunately. My phone, I don't know what reason they were listening, but I didn't notice Mr. Sasa Jankovic ever talking about it, one single sentence. So much for how independent he is. I claim he's a directly party man and that's my right and I didn't vote for the report last time here and I now solemnly tell you – I won't vote for the next report either, and that's my right as an MP, because I don't think he's independent at all in his work. I'm sorry to say that to His Majesty Mr. Jankovic, even though I've been crucified in all the media. I have something here to warn you about next time. Every time someone spills that information like this, for the sake of citizens' safety, I ask you to respond. Otherwise, we're gonna have a situation where everyone here is being paranoid about someone listening to him. I, by the way, went into control as a deputy member of the Security Control Committee, let's say, BIA. I was also in VBA control. They gave us every measure to see how they did it. Absolutely according to the law, everyone was doing it. No measure could have been without the court's approval. Don't make it up and lie here. I understand, they were probably doing it, but then neither Mr. Jankovic nor anyone was upset to protect the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21226	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. You can only speak by amendment. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: All right. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21227	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I absolutely did not say that anyone was listening to Serbian citizens, but that there was a suspicion that the leaders of the opposition parties' unions were on the basis of information received by the Citizens' Protector. Based on this information, certain data were requested from the Department of Defense, certain facts of delivery, and that's what the Department of Defense refused to do, and I'm just asking why it refused to do so. So when I spoke, Mr. Djukanovic... I apologize for speaking directly to Mr Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21228	You can't speak directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21229	I apologized. When I was talking about former Minister Sutanovac, I was saying he worked transparently, because the Citizen's Protector when he asked for the data, the Ministry of Defense in his time was delivering that information to remove such suspicions. I want to tell you that what Mr Djukanovic just said when it comes to the Citizens' Protector is not an attack on Sasa Jankovic, but an institution that is independent in Serbia and at least claims to be. We all voted for him in this assembly. Our duty as MPs and this home is to defend independent institutions, not to scold them, attack them, and say that we will not vote just because he feels like he's a party man, because what he's looking for doesn't contribute to him and his party. It's a shame. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21230	Mr Bozovic, by giving the right to a replica to Mr Djukanovic, I am handling the fact that I, as a member of the Committee, have doubts, because one Mr Jankovic said in public and mentioned listening and the leader, and the other, he delivered it to the Committee and there is no such thing in the Committee Report. That's why I can't warn Mr. Djukanovic when he talks about it. Replica, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21231	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, it's not Sasa Jankovic's institution, he's a name and name, a man, like all of us, and the institution is a Protector of the Citizens. One day it's not gonna be him, it's gonna be someone else, and I think he's doing his job to break that institution, and that's my right to think so. You know, I can't accept that he's been unmistakablely elected here. We only have the sinless conception that was, but the unmistakable choice is certainly not. Everyone's wrong in life, including him, and otherwise he's not independent, because it depends on us here in parliament, he's reporting to us. Enough with that pointless coin on independent institutions, because they are institutions that report to the Serbian Parliament. We chose them and we have to take care of it, and it is independent in the sense that the Serbian government must not interfere with its work and we must respect it and that is something that is good. When we talk about the institution itself, it's my right to think that way. I honestly think personally that he is in breach of the credibility of the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21232	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21233	Mr. Becic, you, as the principal chairman, had reason to give my colleagues notice before me. You know, when he says we're lying, in those words, it's already a serious insult to parliament and parliamentarians, and that would be consistent with when someone tells you that we can work forever, that lie would already be for disfellowshipping from the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21234	Mr. Sutanovac, I beg you, you didn't get straight by the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21235	Don't ask me any more questions. Let me talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21236	Please, you didn't get straight by the line. Also, I've already said I don't want to make private conversations and the reason I pulled the notice. You know very well that the warning is not withdrawn because I think I was wrong but because of something else you said in the conversation with me. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21237	So, when Mr. Djukanovic says we're lying, you're obliged to react, unrelated to what you pulled or didn't withdraw. When Mr. Martinovic says – martyr, for Saša Jankovic, the same thing. If I were to say that the minister is a martyr and he is a knight man, you would react, I'm sure, or that Djukanovic is lying. Mr. Minister, did you just ask Mr. Bozovic where he served his army?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21238	Here, you just said that and I didn't react. You see, I have the same arches for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21239	No, I'll never say that, ever. You asked before - where did Mr. Balsa Bozovic serve the army? So, where did Mr. Djukanovic serve the army? Nowhere. Not just him, and Jovicic, nowhere. So, what? So he's representing the SNS here today as an authorized, and he wasn't serving the army, he wasn't in the army for two minutes, and you're discriminating our MP who didn't serve the army and you're disdaining him - where you served the army, so you don't know. Well, how would he know? The man's been giving us a lecture here for two days. He wasn't in the army but in those controls. He knows so much about the army. It's a good thing, here comes reinforcements. You just said something about the budget, all your analysis is fantastic. Explain to these people who sit next to you how it is possible that in 2012 they had a higher salary than today and it will be clear to everyone that what you're saying simply doesn't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21240	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Bratislav Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think I told Mr Bozovic that not knowing the terms of military terminology, you should have helped him and made it easier for him. It's not a bit sinful. He didn't serve the army, the child couldn't at some point, etc. Are you trying to scare me in front of the board by getting in my face to scare me in front of the board with you and Sasha Jankovic? I see that whenever I sit here in the Assembly, you need to explain this side in an attack, with a cry for me. I've told you many times, Mr. Sutanovac, you can insult me, you can call me whatever you want on Twitter and everything else. I know exactly who I am and what I am. You can also tell me I'm a knight of Charpania. Yes, I'm proud, but I didn't do it for the cost of the state or the cost of the Serbian Army. As I can call you the Baron of Miriev, no problem at all, so come to that higher act after which comes when the pastures are here in downtown Belgrade. But I don't use it, Mr. Sutanovac. That's why I'm telling you. Let's return this to improve and make your remarks in line with better and better quality of finding a legal solution for the Serbian Army. Let the politics go at the moment. You cannot explain politics to Serbian citizens that you are much concerned about the military now. I understand, but I told you once, you were, well done, all the attention you have from the Serbian Army for being a minister for five years, but many years will pass in order to get one of you back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21242	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. You were talking about him whether he served or didn't serve the army.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21243	Thank you. It's true, Mr. Sutanovac, I didn't serve, you know why, and it should serve you honor to object, because I would never want it to happen to you or anyone in your family. You should be ashamed to mention that. That's what it says about you. But when you talk like that about who's giving military lectures, you know, there's a lot going on in college. Otherwise, in 20 years and a few years, none of the MPs here may have the right to speak of the army, because you have suspended the regular service of the military. So it's not nice that you came to me like that because you're familiar with everything. I'm saying it again says a lot more about you, and I really want it to happen to you, to anyone in your family, nothing like that to happen to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21244	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. You'd like to replicate the minister, and the minister isn't here. You have no one to replicate. He'll be back. If you want to replicate in the air, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21245	Madam Chairman, I may be obliged to apologize to Mr Djukanovic because the issue of military non-serving was initiated by Minister Gasic. Mr. Djukanovic, you should have replicated Minister Gasic and told him – it's not right to say that. For what? Because there are so many ministers in the world, women who have not served the army, who are better ministers than our Gasic. What's the problem? The President of Parliament didn't serve the army either. I don't know if Minister Selakovic served the army, it doesn't matter. Being a bad minister has nothing to do with you not serving the army. That's my opinion. Mr. Djukanovic, if you let me apologize to you, but you were supposed to react, you should have reacted on behalf of all those young people who had some problem or used the right not to serve the army like you don't have to. Your colleague Jovicic didn't serve the army, so what's the problem? Don't accuse me of making a bad point. I've known that for 10 years. It's not news to me. And I've known about Vulin for 10 years. But this is where Minister Gasic started it as an argument, in that Balsa Bozovic, who is your lawyer, cannot talk. On the other hand, I'm sorry the minister came out. I don't have a problem getting up, talking. If that sounds like getting into someone's face, I regret those who can't stand up to speak in the congregation. If there's a back problem or a problem with an organ, so it can't get up, I don't have a problem with it, but don't mind me. I can't get in my face at 15 meters. You weren't there, so you didn't hear. I was resented by the minister to get in his face. How's that? He may have a visual problem, but he needs to work it out somewhere else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21246	I have a visual problem. I didn't serve the army. I accept that all the insults you have said to each other are addressed to me, which does not mean that politically I cannot lead a resolution and parliament well. We're making a difference between profession and politics. I hear you, MPs, all want to replicate. You've all found yourself hit. I'm using my right to take a break from nine minutes to 12.45 hours, to somehow establish order in the O.R., to talk about the law. We're now starting to talk about our physical abilities, who did, who didn't serve the army. I think we should put a big point on that. A few minutes' break, not stiff. I'll continue when I feel order has been established. [[After a break.]] I'm calling on members of the Department of Defense to return to the O.R. and continue our work. The applicants can get the call if it's about the amendment, because we took a break so there wouldn't be any more replicas. The 15th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Dr. Blagoje Bradic. The word is proposed by Dr Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21248	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We have proposed in Article 21, which amends Article 45 in point 3 after point 3, to add new points 4 and 5. The 45th member deals with the logistics support of the Serbian Army that is being realised to meet the military's operational needs. I'm sorry, I was in a bit of a hurry. It lists the maintenance of arms and military equipment, supply of arms and military equipment and other means, general logistics needs, planning, construction and demolition, disposal and maintenance of facilities, infrastructure of traffic and transport of people and resources, health care, veterinary protection, safety of the health of people at work, protection of the environment, protection from fires and explosions, hunting for forest operations and other logistics activities, etc. It is said they can do this – military institutions that are organised and functionally related to the Ministry of Defence in which jobs are carried out for the purposes of logistics support of the Serbian Army, which do not have legal personality status. Under two, military institutions that are organisational and functionally related to the Ministry of Defence which perform the productive and service activities and work of building and maintaining facilities, infrastructure and operate on the principle of obtaining and distribution of profits, which is entered in the court register of special legal entities, acquire legal personality status. Under three, one-member companies educated by existing military institutions. We have proposed under point 4. that they be companies and entrepreneurs established and operated in accordance with the law governing companies and points 5. – public enterprises and institutions established and operated in accordance with the rules on public undertakings and institutions. We believe that this amendment is meaningful and that it has its useful effects if there is a need in Serbia's military, especially in the part of health care, veterinary protection, planning, construction, demolition, planning and maintenance of facilities, infrastructure, traffic and transport of people and resources. So, if there is a need for both companies and public enterprises to participate and do some work for the Army of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21249	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21250	Thank you, the Honorable Chairman, that is, the President. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after careful consideration of all amendments, know that the Government and the Government's services, as well as the Ministry of Defense, in this case the Ministry of Defence, are very carefully and indeed doing, have found that this is a good amendment and that this amendment should be accepted because it complements, in a constructive way, Article 45 of the existing law and extends in a rational way, a circle of persons who can carry out this work. So on behalf of the authorised representative of the proposing, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21251	Thank you. This amendment has been accepted. Members of the 45th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the military of Serbia You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Mirko Chikiriz submitted to the nations. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the peoples of MP Mirko Chikiriz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blažje Bradić, with correction, and joint MPs Dr. Milorad Mijatović, Milena Bijanin, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21252	I apologize, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Representatives of the Army,
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21253	Excuse me, did you answer the last one?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21254	Yes, I answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21255	I'll let you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21256	Thank you very much. We propose that the words "war air" be changed to "aircraft". Why? Because we believe that the policy of peace and declaration adopted by this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which aims and military neutrality, gives us the right to throw out the term "warning" from this bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia, in its explanation, says it does not accept this amendment because the term "war air" continues with the interrupted tradition and continuity of this kind of Serbian Army and this concept reflects the essence of its existence. I doubt the essence of the military's existence is war. When it comes to continuity and broken tradition, is it the tradition of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia or is it the tradition of the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia? Why do I say that? The name "war air" to which the Ministry of Defence is called, as a tradition in the explanation of the rejection of the amendments, dates back to the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and when the Air Force was established. This name also existed as the Air Force of the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia from 21 May 1941 until 1990. So, both during and after World War II, he was in service. It was not until after 2000 that we renamed this tribe an Air Force reform. Otherwise, a small lesson in history, when Serbia first acquired planes, among the top 15 countries in the world, it is very important to point out, during Balkan wars, the name used was Serbian aviation. The practice of naming this part of the Ministry is different. U.S. Air Force, Great Britain has a Royal Air Force, Russia has a military air force. Greeks, Italians, Slovenians, Israel and Syria have military airs. Romanians have air force. In a termological confusion over this concept is dominated by the notion of a military air force which distinguishes it from a civilian, and in a value system I think it may be a milder term of the military air force, but if a standoff is sought in tradition which is the argument of the legislator, i.e. the Ministry of Defence, this term was not present in Serbia. The first term aviation comes from the Latin word aviation, which means air force. And that is why we have proposed exactly and taking care of the state policy and the peace-making that the Air Force in all respect, of course, and the tradition and all that it carries with it in the most positive sense, as I have cited from the Balkan wars when Serbia bought among the first 15 countries and had its planes until the last days. I think the Air Force at this point is inappropriate precisely because of the position the state of Serbia has because of the law and the Constitution and precisely because of the commitment to peace that we have as a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21257	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21258	I thank the Honorable Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for listening very closely to my distinguished colleague and respecting his views. Let me just remind you of some things. Of course, that the Serbian Army has its traditions and traditions of the Army of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, that is, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, because this army was formed on the basis of the Army of the Kingdom of Serbia and continued to inherit its continuity and brighter traditions of the Serbian Army. The name of the Serbian air force, of course, was at that time Serbian aviation, was neither war nor war, because we didn't have civilian aviation, and it was the only one who served, we can say for both civilian and military purposes. The name of the Air Force, including what is known to citizens as the entire coin, the Air Force, and the anti-aircraft defense, has been something that has been present in our military terminology for a really long number of decades. The purpose and purpose of each army is not to wage war but to avoid war. If that were not the case, we would not have had neutral countries and countries leading the widest possible peace policy, such as the Swiss Confederation, which, in its defence system, are at the top of their military investment funds per capita, and certainly no one's goal of renaming it so that, let's say, it would be alluded to some military or military intentions, simply and after the previous amendment of the law, it was seen in the public that it had failed to change, because it was still in the media, as well as in the general public used exactly the name of the military and anti-aircraft defence, and that is why the legislator was also being led here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21259	Thank you, Minister. The word has been made by MP Milorad Cvetanovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21260	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with associates, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament and MPs. The idea of the Serbian government is to bring back one of the most important and valuable tribes of the army in the old name has come across universal approval. The prefix was erased by the formation of the Serbia-Montenegro community. The resignation calls the Air Force, it can be believed to be referring to civil air traffic, while the introduction of a prefix "war" precisely indicates that it is a defence air force which and how it evokes the world tradition of our military air force. So I find this amendment unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21261	The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21262	By amendment. I would like to thank the President of the Assembly, honourable MPs, respected ministers, representatives of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, so, just as Mr Selakovic said, here, he would have called himself now, because I completely agree with you. Therefore, the military's goal is not at war, even though the military's goal in the Republic of Serbia is no war. I think there's some point where the war doesn't come and I totally agree with you. But the goal should be to defend us. And as counterpart Meho Omerovic said, so we can call it defensive, military, etc. Air Force, but not wartime. For this reason, I do not think it would be bad if many parliamentary groups or representatives of some political parties really found it unnecessary to put this prefix after everything that happened to us in the 1990s. In that sense, it interferes somewhere with those MPs who are in the course of today's debate and when the Law on Defence is now and about the army, who have had negative experiences in certain parts, even Serbia, in those war years, to simply throw this out in war, because we do not think it is welcome at times when the Republic of Serbia's Army serves for defence. I think it's very important that we be absolutely certain of the citizens that we have one clear message, everything the relic of the past has timed. Somewhere in history we can find that the Air Force had an excuse, but not because of everything that happened in the 1990s and not after 2000 and not because we're in the 21st century. when Serbia focuses on something that means improving economic conditions and improving in this regard and a much stronger economy than it is today. I believe that the Serbian Army, which is indeed a respectable institution that participates today in many peacekeeping missions, not war missions, should not name itself as the Ministry of Defence suggests - the Air Force. In this way absolutely not solved is not a day of essential problems in the military, especially when it comes to the Air Force. You know we have only a few planes, and when it comes to the safety of our sky, it is also questioned by this technique. We think that instead of more investment that you have proposed for the Army of the Republic of Serbia, here are proposing some cosmetic changes that from the defence, military are put into war, which we do not think is acceptable at this time for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21263	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21264	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as an ex-military army soldier with 200 days' training and as a member of the Air Force and against air defense, the RV and the PSC, as it was called, in Bihac, and you already know what was there, unlike the former Secretary of Defense, I'm not going to talk about anything that could still be a military secret today. Just because I was in Bihac, the least of these officers made it clear how much the army trusted me and I in the army. As a member of the RV and the PSC, I must first say that the wrong terms are already being used here. The law doesn't say Air Force and Air Defense, it says against Air Defense, as far as I read the law. It would be good to insist on what is written, not what we think is standing. Here is also mentioned the tradition of the Serbian Air Force of the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, with this in connection with the obligation I am obliged to say that these traditions are bright, regardless of what we have been taught in history, that it was a rotten kingdom. In particular, in my moral obligation to the members of the Royal Air Force, because in 1941, in those few days, over 100 enemy planes were able to bomb airports in Hungary, Austria and Bulgaria, where aircraft that had cruelly declared war bombed our country, most of Belgrade, and this bombing happened several times. Exclusion of the Air Force is like redefining the role, and I advocate that the RV and the PSC have the most modern systems, including those rocket systems, in which they would be a force, but never to experience what we experienced in 1999. If we were to leave only the air force, then we could look at it in various ways, so we could also treat agricultural aviation, and it's kind of an air force. That's why I'm absolutely comfortable with the term Air Force. Serbia will not war with anyone but it must have a military air force, the most modern systems we hope to have, after the recovery of the economy that was destroyed by those who ruled before us, that we would get these systems, that we would be able to deter all those who wanted to repeat what they were doing in 1999. So this RV and PSC absolutely suits me, and that's why I'm against adopting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21265	The word is Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21266	Dear President, dear ministers, I think this amendment is completely unacceptable. Why should we avoid words – the Air Force, if in our environment the states that are members of NATO, such as Croatia have a military air force? Therefore, I don't know why this would bother us, especially those who have reduced our air force to the level of agricultural aviation, and now they want to stay as they have designed, that our air force is reduced to doing jobs at the level of agricultural aviation, i.e. spraying mosquitoes and throwing fox baits. We're not gonna let that happen. This amendment is totally unacceptable. We have the sacred tradition of our air force and I think we should keep it as proposed - the Air Force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21267	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21268	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I agree, we shouldn't accept this. We need to be aware of some things. First, we train all our pilots in military academys, and even in the river fleet not to drive tourist tours, but to train them to defend the country and therefore it is totally unacceptable to even them with civil aviation. They're part of the Air Force. It's just that it's got to be accepted. It's my fault there's no army river fleet in place. They should have that, too, because they're part of the defense system, but they're already at the ministry. We have to be aware, since someone mentioned that it's a retrograde term, it's not true. You have a Greek Air Force that is a member of the EU. The Italian Air Force, which is a member of the EU. When we talk about the American Air Force, they have a motto - fly, fight, win. Thus, they made it clear that this part of defence or war, or even offensive in their case, and how they view it as a representation. I don't see why we should be ashamed of that. The army is, and I am pleased that the law itself has finally stated that the military is actually an institution that defends the territorial sovereignty, the integrity of this state. That is why they cannot defend what counterpart Risticevic said to agricultural aviation, but it can only be done by the Air Force and therefore should remain the term as proposed. So the amendment is not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21269	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21270	There's that saying - call me whatever you want, just don't break me. This is about replacing thesis when it comes to this amendment. We have proposed to use the term - Air Force instead. Even in the debate, we said in principle that we would give up this proposal and that we would give a possible change to this amendment in the sense that it is called - the Air Force to distinguish it from civil aviation. I think that would be quite appropriate. I don't think we need to make any parallels with the US Air Force or even call on the Croatian Air Force. I think that we are a sovereign state and that we have, a time from an authorised representative, our own internal and foreign policy, which is not NATO politics like the US and the Republic of Croatia and some other countries that are listed here as examples because they have, in their programmes, in their strategies sometimes aggressive policy, aggressive military policy, we could feel it on our own skin. Serbia went through it in 1999. In that sense, I think those comparisons are unnecessary. I believe that the reputation of the institution, namely the Serbian Army and the military or military air force, as you wish it to be called, is not built by the names but by the very integrity and ability of the institution to function by whether the pilot, when he comes home from work, is thinking about whether he and his family will have enough to pay for the apartment, whether he may even be in the air to think about his existence. Gentlemen, it would be logical for you to raise those people's wages and then give this new authority to the military, in this case the Air Force. No, you cut their salaries and now you name them and you won't have the ability to buy new planes from the budget. We'd all like to have new planes, super modern planes, newest planes. We won't be able to because our economy was neither able nor will now because it's in debt too much, over eight billion of this government, and you'll hardly be able to buy Mr. Selakovic new planes. I'm really sorry that today, there's no military minister here right now. I know there's a very important meeting on the issues of overstepping certain powers. We'll see, we'll get answers right there. We haven't been able to get answers, let's say, to say the questions we asked last time, and this is specifically the case. I asked - how much did a military parade cost? How much they cost to fly those planes because three, four thousand euros can only cost one take-off. However, the minister avoided answering that question. As I said last time, he circled with the answer on this issue as rain around Kragujevac, or as modern as it is now said – like planes around Bajcetina. So we didn't get an answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21271	Mr. Ambassador, you've left the Air Force and the Air Force for a while. We didn't hear anything about that to convince most of you. Please return everyone to the amendments. The word is Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21272	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I am opposed to accepting this amendment simply which is a solution proposed by the military, or the RS government logically. The Air Force is not preparing for the pollination of mosquitoes or agricultural landowners, but for a war that we all hope will never happen to wise state policy and wise diplomacy in Serbia again. Secondly, it was here, and I don't think it's necessary because the Serbian Army has gone far in its reforms, that it is a serious and modern system that has completely freed itself from ideological shackles and I think that even the MPs who have modesty in their eyes should be when it comes to this topic of fully freed ideological shackles. For what? The Air Force was formed during the Kingdom of Serbia, and that's the thing. Not everything has become from NOR and partisan, etc. There was something before that, and all those who think, like Mr Mecca Omerovic, that it was a return to a bad tradition, I really must tell them publicly, that this is a terrible ideological delusion unworthy of a single MP. Secondly, during the fascist bombing of Belgrade on 6 April, Yugoslav Royal Air Force took off to the sky even though they knew they had no chance against such an aggressor. Everyone was shot down and almost everyone was killed. In our consciousness, there's little known in our history. The same thing happened during the NATO bombing. Many Serbian Air Force heroes took off and experienced the same fate. But that's how our pilots behave in peace. Last year, we were the family of a dead pilot who sacrificed his life so that he wouldn't crash on Old Paz's plane here, posthumously assigned a high medal. The same thing happened to a pilot who sacrificed his life a few years ago, a pilot from the Boats, because he avoided falling to the Kragujevac Airport, where under circumstances there was once a single airport, and that's why it's called the Airport settlement and he lost his life. Such heroes, who have not died for neither the king nor Tito, but have given their lives for Serbia both in war and in peace, we must speak with great respect in this National Assembly. Here, there are high-ranking officers who have been in the Serbian Army for a long time, and we should say that in 1990, there was an obligation for all officers to be members of a party called the Union of Communists - the Movement for Yugoslavia. Today it is not an officer's obligation, it is an obligation to be patriots, to protect all political parties, just as Serbian officers acted during the Kingdom, which is the most bright of our traditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21273	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21274	The Honorable Chairman, when we talk about this amendment, there are some things that are not quite clear to me right now. Someone here wants, at least termologically, to pacify our army. Suddenly, it bothers him with the term - the Air Force, and then when you give them examples of NATO member states that have almost everything in order – wartime, then we are told – don't even bother those countries, now even Croatia, it's not a good example, because these countries are aggressive. Okay, if they're aggressive, then why open up their office at the General Staff? Why did you allow these aggressive countries to reform our army and make a complete reform of our army? Now all of a sudden because they're so aggressive, we need them to avoid, and this is where they reform our entire system, how you've introduced it. Here, we don't want the countries of the NATO Pact. Let's take the Russian Federation. And she has a military air force. I don't understand why someone is trying in every way possible to accept everything from someone on the side, to tell us how it's best, and when we want to apply it, it suddenly bothers that term. I'm sorry, the Army isn't a ballet association. The military is an institution that defends the country. And it's well defined in the law, it can be peaceful and it can be war-related, depending on the situation. So I don't see what's wrong with the term - Air Force? I think it's something that's absolutely normal. And that's why these pilots who went to military school, after all, should be different from what they were trained to be a civilian pilot, or pilot Boeing or I don't know what. It's still a huge difference. Let's not even it out, because these are people who are trained to defend the country and will normally be part of the Air Force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21275	Thank you. By amendment again? The word is made by MP Marjan Rističević, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as amended, of course, because this is a very important subject to me, I was a member of the RVP, in a condition when this army was equipped, 1978/79. years, and when she was a military force, not only in Europe, but in the world. I spent more than eight months in Bihac, so I know what “the guardians of our heavens ” mean,“ deterrence, ” meaning “the defense of the sky. ” In defense of the sky, you defend all units that are on the ground. So, at that time, it invested significantly in PVO systems and aviation. What we didn't have later, we had a result in 1999, when, due to the lack of modern systems, we suffered enormous material damage, not only in the military, but in the economy. When trouble comes, help is called God and soldier, when trouble passes, God is not respected, a soldier forgets. That's what's wrong with us Serbs. I do not want this amendment to be adopted and that the Air Force, which should be with the state-of-the-art war systems, to deter all those who want to harm, not only the military, but businesses and citizens, those who would like to throw bridges, etc., and to do something, perhaps even harder than what they did in 1999, I think that not only does this term have to remain, but we need to significantly increase the strength of the military and the PSC, because it is important not only for the preservation of other tribes of the military, but it is important for the preservation of the economy, for the security of citizens. We all know what civilian casualties we had during 1999 and that the damage to the economy and civilians were far greater than by units and war techniques. I don't think we should delete this. I'm definitely against it. I don't think so, and I don't agree with colleagues who want the Air Force to absolutely cancel. Some of them think we should let these NGOs ladies sit on a broom and disrupt the sky if the enemy attacks. I can't agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21277	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21278	I thank you for supporting the amendment submitted by the MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic, because it is obvious from the debate that there is a serious misunderstanding, because it is thought that the magic of words -- at war, will suddenly restore the air force. The need to rebuild the air force is mentioned. That is, respected colleagues and colleagues, the subject of budgeting for 2016, and could already be for this budget. This tendency to believe in the strength of words and that is enough is a tendency to one illusion or illusion about what civil and parliamentary control is or the civilian and parliamentary position of the military in each of the countries we want to look like, which are EU member states or in each of the countries changing according to the same recipes as Serbia does. Not to mention the bright traditions involving members of whether the armies of Serbia, the armies of Serbia-Montenegro, the armies of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the armies of the SFRY, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Kingdom of Serbia, I would like instead to have the names of those people, from the last wars, from the 1999 accident. But we don't. And that's the same attitude. The way we came to the name was long and agonizing, because I think it's good to know the names of the people who fought in any kind of army for the defense and did their professional duties. It is also obvious from this discussion that we are skipping a period during which the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Army also participated. I understand that. As we insist on the word - warring, we believe that this is magic that will bring pride and strong aviation, so we also think that by leaving out a reminder of the role of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's Army in some war conflicts, we believe that they will not exist, will they, as well as there will be no well-equipped Serbian Air Force, which will be warlike by the will of the majority, without decisions in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2016. If there are such proposals for the budget, the larger budget of the Serbian Army, I will vote, regardless of what I will be an opposition to this government next year, because this means that the programme budget that we were obliged to bring it to this year is changed by better assessing where the money of all Serbian citizens is needed when it comes to Serbia's Army, precisely because of peace affairs, the huge jobs the military is working on, regardless of whether war is going on or whether some members are involved in peace operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21279	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21280	President-in-Office, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, I understand the lack of information and indifference of the motion to introduce such a prefix, it seems to me due to insufficient military experience and military action at all. As a reserve military elder and a participant of military acts in 1999, as a patrician of the school of reserve officers in Zadar, where the Centre for the Air Force and the training of future pilots was also located, I think motivation and high morals are something necessary to the military, if we know that the Serbian Army has always been in the capacity of a defence military force, and never through history as an aggressor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21281	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21282	President-in-Office, Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and related to several members of this same Rules of Procedure. In fact, you're running out of time to call a session on government issues right now. We haven't had a session in six months with government issues. Is it possible you'll avoid that session this time?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21283	Ambassador, I have to interrupt you. So it's just a direct injury. It doesn't exist, you haven't studied the Rules of Procedure well, I'm not calling a session on government issues. Sit down so I don't take two minutes of your time. Full politicization.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21284	You're calling the last Thursday of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21285	You're wrong, there's no call for a session. If you want, I'll take two minutes. For your own good, I'm telling you it's better to sit down and study it again, so you don't make a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21286	So there won't be a session of the government's questions?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21287	Please study the Rules of Procedure. You've absolutely missed it. I understand what you're saying is political, which has nothing to do with life. The word has the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21288	Dear President, respected ministers, respected colleagues, I disagree that words have little meaning. The power of the word is enormous, and it goes too far from the first and the basics, and I will quote: “At first there was a word. “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21289	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21290	Thank you, President. So this is about the same thing. What was our intention, we had a chance to hear now, is that when it comes to the military, or the air force in this case, what we're going to add to war, as Mrs Comic said, it will not restore neither aviation nor improve Serbia's economy. What makes it important to defend our country and what is important for Serbia to have a strong army is to defend itself, then, a strong economy in Serbia and a reputation in the world, because our army participates in many peacekeeping missions and operations, with which we are very proud. What's happening here is that this prefix completely removes one very important thing from sight, which is a very difficult situation in the Serbian Air Force, whether military or other, and here it is military. We think it is very important that these few planes that Serbia owns, which often break down, and one and the basic resource when it comes to protecting our sky, is a very big problem for this and every future government, given the economic situation. When Serbia was in a much better economic situation, we failed to end up restoring the military air force, and only now that Serbia is in recession, when there are many problems, when Serbia and the Serbian economy cannot answer those problems that were being put before it. So, I would support all those MPs who gave support to the amendment and my personal and Mr Dejan Nikolic. We think this is completely unnecessary and this puts a completely different context. So there is no army to wage war, even if not in Serbia, there is an army to defend our country's territorial integrity and sovereignty. We think that some other way or a name is much more appropriate. So far, you've had a name that existed and I don't know why we would now change it into this "war" and add something that doesn't exactly resemble Serbia in some new times, even if the government of the Republic of Serbia is even declaring itself to be in favour of certain integrations and when it propagating peace in the region and the world and presents itself as a factor of stability. We think it is very important for this reason that this change is also adopted and that this amendment is adopted, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia would make it easier to work in one large part when it comes to our foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21291	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21292	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I support exactly what the honourable fellow MP said, which is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is truly testifying with its policy that Serbia is a factor of peace and stability in this part of Europe. The government of the Republic of Serbia is propagating and handling itself exclusively by peaceful policy. The government of the Republic of Serbia respects the resolution on the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia, voted by the National Assembly. I remind you of something I've already said, one Switzerland, which has been a neutral state for centuries, has a military air force. I doubt that in this respected home there are those who do not advocate that Serbia in all fields reaches the level of one Switzerland, in the rule of law in the first place. I would be happy if I could also develop a system of direct democracy, which exists in some cantons of the Swiss Confederation, but also in the field of economic development, stability, social security, legal order, as well as in the field of defence. So, the neutral state has been investing in its armed forces for several centuries now an extremely high sum of money, which has a military air force. Will someone tell her that she's running an aggressive policy, that she's implying something that's not true? Of course not. This is really about the terminology that we still use. It simply didn't occur to people to speak to the Air Force or the Air Force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21293	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Just make sure you know what time you're wasting.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21294	The time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21295	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21296	I can tell you that this term is exactly in line with military reforms and its modernisation. This is good, we follow examples of developed countries. I have already mentioned some EU members here. Thank you, Mr Selakovic, for mentioning Switzerland. I don't see why it bothers anyone there. It's not a harmless thing and it's not a word game at all - is it a war or is it just an air force? That's very important, because you're in some way defining your strategy in the military itself and what you're preparing that pilot for. If you'd just put the Air Force on, I'm sorry, but the Air Force can also be a civilian, it could be an agricultural air force. I don't believe they're training someone at the military academy for agricultural aviation. So, this is very important and, after all, I think it's an honor for every pilot who's finished the military academy, that he was part of the Air Force and that he can't identify himself with everyone else. Still, it's something you've been educated for and it's an honor to boast about everywhere. These are the people who are the bright spot in this society. Only the most capable go there and they want to go to school for it. It's not a word game at all, it's a very important term, and that's why I'm totally in favor of the Air Force. What the people would say is, I often use one proverb, we shouldn't be more Catholic than the Pope, and now we're pacifying our army, when all the ones we're calling on haven't been so termologically Pacificed by the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21297	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21298	Dear Minister, high-ranking officers of the Serbian Army, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wanted to say two things. First, connecting the logical name of the Air Force and its condition is really inappropriate. I believe we won't change the situation in our Air Force if we add one adjective or subtract it. But let's take it off, if we're already scaring someone with that way, as the opposition says. What are we gonna do about the fighter air? Should we just call her Air Force? Even she looks predatory. The Air Force is what we need. Because my colleague said it could be both civil and humanitarian. I think it's good for the image of our army and precisely because of those who died on April 6, 1999, precisely because of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21299	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21300	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The government was right when she refused my amendment because I made an oversight by looking at the basic text of the law, without any subsequent changes or additions. But on this amendment, I just want to say something, which I think should be repeated in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I have suggested that a code of military ethics, which has already been passed, be adopted under the obligations of a member of the Serbian Army to carry out the service. But I think that when there's talk of the military and our tradition at all, it's rare for me that one of the most important institutions, one of the best institutions, one of the institutions that many thought was bewitched and ideologically scarred, etc., has shown in the reforms since 2000 that it's gone far and far and far, and where it's fortunate that all other institutions have done so. Why did the Serbian Army reach that level? First of all, because of what professional people do, what they're trained to do, what they respect standards, what they have great resources. Now, why should it be stressed that the Chief of Staff has already brought the Code of Honor? Just because of what we have in our military tradition, and what we always have to point out, there are still a lot of images of Serbia due to the conflicts of the 1990s. But those who change that picture better are largely members of the Serbian Army, through participation in peacekeeping missions. Others who change that painting for the better are, say, our tennis players and athletes, so perhaps all politicians and state officials. Now, if since the Karajord uprising we have had the respect of the enemy with a high degree of patriotism, personal courage, respect for the state, we have also had the respect of the enemy. Karadjorge knew how to punish his soldiers in the most brutal way. Three soldiers in Belgrade were publicly hanged for stealing Turkish property, enemy property. The Minister of Finance Lazar Pachu, with the government of Krfa, was then the enemy of Germany, with whom we were at war and who with the Austro-Hungarian monarchy forced us out of the country, repaying the loans taken before the war. The German finance minister then said it would enter the world's financial analyses, that we were with a country in war and that it was always paying us off. Many historians, such as Leopold von Ranke, many humanitarians, many doctors, many enemy officers and soldiers say that in the First World War in Nis, for example, in one hospital ward, the treatment of enemy soldiers was better than ours. It is the honor and courage of traditional Serbian officers and soldiers we should be proud of. My grandfather was a prisoner of the Royal Army, spent four years of war in Germany. Three of my grandfathers shot me. In May 1945, a Protestant pastor held a mass at a Protestant church in Germany dedicated to the great victory of Christian love and Serbian officers. For what? About 350,000 of our soldiers and 5,000 officers were in Germany. While they were rebuilding the German economy and working in slave working conditions, their children, brothers, grandchildren from the same Germans died here. The pastor said in the sermon that they feared with much justification what would happen when the prisoner wires broke, whether Serb officers would return favorably to them, with a lot of justification. But what happened? When they went free, our officers and soldiers treated the German children as our children, sang songs, gave them candy, held them in their laps, kissed and loved. The pastor said that such a victory of the Christian love of soldiers and officers has never been seen before. The same was ours in all the conflicts, both in the Balkan wars and in the First World War and during NATO aggression in 1999. That's why, with all due respect, the government was absolutely right to reject this amendment of mine, I needed only to stress this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21301	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21302	Thank you. Article 5 The bill amending the law states that the term "professional military person" is replaced by the words "professional member of the Serbian Army". We ask that this member be deleted, for at least two reasons that open one field of interpretation of this member for the future. The first is that, according to the interpretation and reasoning we received from the Government that the amendment is being rejected, it says that, according to Article 55(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, members of the Serbian Army, cannot be members of political parties and members of the Serbian Army, within the meaning of Article 6. The Military Act, military persons and civilian persons at the service in the Serbian Army, i.e. within the meaning of Article 8. The Law on the Serbian Army, for these categories, was defined as "professional members of the Serbian Army". I have a very simple question that I would ask the minister to answer me, and he is doing himself and all these defined members of the Serbian Army, because it is important, because it is the right guaranteed Constitution to be a member of a political party, and we are not questioning that professional military persons are not members of political parties, that is understood. For whom they will vote, it is their business, but that party activists are meant to be. When you equated civilians like this, not the commanding staff, the people he has in the Serbian Army, two questions are open to me. Does every civilian have the same rights as a military person? It's a very serious thing. Secondly, how does Marija Maric, who is a civilian in the Yugoslav Army, differ in rights and obligations, by the definition of this law is now a professional member of the Yugoslav Army, and Jelena Jovanovic, who works at the Ministry of Defence in similar affairs? As you write this law, Marija Maric does not have the right to join the political party, and Jelena Jovanovic has. Or, there is neither Jelena Jovanovic, who performs affairs at the Ministry of Defence, nor Marija Maric. Tone can. Because Jelena Jovanovic is an official of the state administration, they have rights. The way you define it, I have no doubt in my mind that there is no misunderstanding, when I doubt something, I say I doubt it. It's important for me to be clear because every law applies to a human being, changes the quality of his life. That, the minister probably forgot, is one of the dialogues that I've had the pleasure of participating in with him, many of us. He must have forgotten me. But I said, "The state is us, we're citizens." It's irrevocable. That's how the laws have to be kept in the centre of every citizen. This Military Act must be in the centre of us, citizens, and members of the Yugoslav Army. To someone this member will have a direct effect. I wish he were undeniable, who is defined by this member as a professional member of the Serbian Army, but reading the regulations is not undeniable. One huge number of people, so civilian persons, who are at the service, I'm not going to say the kind of jobs they do, that's their thing, but we just know that because we're bringing the budget and when we're not interested, I am interested in the employees and the services of the military and the police, because I think it's important. I think it's people who do a special kind of work for which I always have the support, because for my safety they put their heads in a bag. It doesn't have to be a war, it can be a flood, it can be an emergency, it can help civil protection, it can help fight terrorism, someone puts their head in a bag so I don't have anything to worry about. That is why it is important to make it perfectly clear, through this example, whether professional members of the Serbian Army, which I don't think should be, are all employees of the Ministry of Defence, of course, or are citizens who are serving in the Serbian Army? That's my question for Maria Maric, who works there and for Jelena Jovanovic, who does the same or very similar work, since she has them necessary, overlaps with the ministry and in Vojsca. Why can't Marija Maric be a member, and Jelena Jovanovic would have to be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21303	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21304	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Ministry of Defence is one thing, and the Serbian Army is something else. The work of persons employed continuously, not posted, not relocated, but staff constantly at the Ministry of Defence, if they are not officers, so when we talk about official and furniture staff, it is regulated by the Law on civil servants and tenants and it is absolutely and unequivocally clear. Such persons, except those who are civil servants in a position where they are limited to the right to perform party functions, party functions, when we talk about ordinary civil servants and tenants, are not limited and cannot be limited. When we talk about the Serbian Army, members of the Serbian Army enjoy the status defined by the Law on the Serbian Army. European legal fluids regulate this matter in the same way as it defines, or proposes, this bill. The point is, if someone agreed to have the status of a member of the Serbian Army, he is, whether he is a military official, whether he is a military manager, whether he is a military person, so a professional soldier or an officer, he has agreed to a special status that has certain rights, but also certain obligations or duties. One of these duties, according to this proposal, is depoliticalisation and not the introduction of political elements into the work and functioning of the Serbian Army. We went through different times when a member of the Army was obliged to be a party-involved person. We remember those times, some with a smile on their faces, with joy, some not with such a nice feeling, but here the thing is quite clear. So, the one who has the status of a civil servant or an undersigned whether an administrative and technical secretary at the Ministry of Defence, who is the deputy in that ministry, has the right to party organisation. You can't limit him. Someone might say that and you should limit it, but such officers in the entire Department of Defense, so you have 93 employees and tenants in total, and that's not a secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21305	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21306	Thank you. It doesn't matter the number, and if one, our concepts differ, 93-93, they'll have rights. Someone you see as a civilian in the Serbian Army will not have those rights, but they will have no rights that have military faces, that's what this is about. So, I'm not a slow military figure, professional soldiers, so I don't mention them, I'm talking about civilians in the Serbian Army. They're busy now, all of a sudden, it doesn't matter how many there are. It doesn't matter to me. I've had enough of one, that I think his rights have been compromised. You, by this law, put only that group of people in a position where they, now employed, were not. You're changing their rights. So far, if they were civilians, they could be members of political parties. Now that you define them as members of the Yugoslav Army, I can't do it anymore. I just want to leave out any doubt that they only lose those rights, but they don't gain any new rights which, unlike them, absolutely naturally, do not slow down, have military faces in the same army, as members of the Serbian Army. You don't have a dispute with me, I've always had against the Army having a political color, that was bad for the military, and unfortunately, we've seen how bad that is for the Army. We were killed as a country, but the first ones were killed because the Army was nurtured as ideological and political, not as professional, no matter how great people and great results and scientific research were in the Army. So I know the price of bitterness paid by the Army because it was ideological or politicized, first it. My insistence is just to be clear, that one number of people, it doesn't matter how many, because you now call them members of the Yugoslav Army, they didn't become military faces, they're still civilian persons who are in the Yugoslav Army on certain jobs, they have nothing to do with military affairs, they have as many people as you want, they're reducing those rights. If any of them appear before you, and they say, you have leveled me with a sentence—a member of the Yugoslav Army with military faces, and if they seek some rights that arise only from being a military person, then what will be? It's as much of a concern to me as to make it perfectly clear why these rights are being reduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21307	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21308	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members and representatives of the Serbian Army, respected Minister Selakovic, I think it is very convenient that you are here now, because the issue is both constitutional and legal and is actually about the precise definition and interpretation of certain rights and certain persons. The Honorable Generals Chairman, Mr Arsenovicu, I have reported here because this, I think, is one point to which we should be abound by the similarity of our assembly debate, gentlemen, because it is a matter of precisely determining what some amendment to a bill is, produces as a consequence, and whether this consequence is in line with what the laws and the Constitution of our Republic are. I believe, since I have tried to carefully follow this debate, with the note that here in the principle debate I agreed, mainly with the arguments of Minister Gasic on the necessity of amending these two laws and in accordance with this, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have not even submitted any amendments to these draft laws. In this case, I believe that the amendment to Mrs Comic's MP and her colleagues from the DS should be adopted. Here, let me try to explain, perhaps to the extra honored guests here, but also to the MPs who will eventually vote for this or that. So, as a kind of reminder, Article 5 is changed where certain words are replaced by the words "professional member of the Serbian Army". “ Mrs. Komic's proposal is to delete this amendment in the Bill sent by the Government, because Mrs. Komic feels that what was previously in that position is more precise and better. Now, what happened? So we have a government proposal, we have an amendment, we have a constitution. The Constitution in Article 55, which is also called for by the Proposer in an explanation for the refusal of the amendment, has five positions. I'd stay here on the first and fifth. The first attitude says – the freedom of political, trade union and any other association is guaranteed and the right to remain outside each association. It's okay. Of course, the Constitution. But, Section 5. – Judges of the Constitutional Court, judges, public prosecutors, civil defender, members of the police and members of the military cannot be members of political parties. In an explanation, the government said, Minister Selakovic, in this case, on behalf of the government, or Minister Gasic, says -- the amendment is not accepted because, according to Article 55(5), this is what I last read, Serbian Army members cannot be members of political parties. I come here by two now, I think, a good argument in favour of Mrs. Comic's amendment. But here's what I'd like to hear again is an explanation if it's concluded that it's not to be accepted. One thing is, we still don't have the same coin in the Constitution and in this bill. So, the Constitution says – a member of the army, in the bill of law now says – a professional military person here. Of course, in the Military Act, which is called upon by the Proposer, it says that within the meaning of Article 6. The law on the Serbian Army, military persons and civilian persons is at the service of the Serbian Army. Then, gentlemen, I return to the key argument of Mrs. Comic. If, in this sense, we are equating military and civilian persons at the service in the Serbian Army, and we are now calling each other professional members of the Serbian Army, then I am going back to the next question. All right, so it is believed that a civilian serving in the Serbian Army should not be a member of the political party. That's how I understood it. But then I wonder if it means it, and Mrs. Comic, as far as I understand it, is that the same question, does that mean that a civilian at the service in the Serbian Army is now getting the same rights that have a military face in the Serbian Army? In other words, is it just that one kind of person loses one right or is it actually the result of this kind of change is that these faces are now being given some rights that have military faces? I think, gentlemen, respected guests from the RS government and the Serbian Army, that this is a relevant issue for us. We must not allow some persons to be deprived of their rights, that justice be done by a small number of those persons, for example, without neglecting that as a consequence, it can also be taken away and added to some other rights, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21309	Thank you. Here you go, Minister Selaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21310	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am also pleased with the quality of the debate, but I would like to clarify exactly what you said. Does that mean that a civilian, not in the Department of Defense, don't get that mixed up? So, whatever the number of people who work as civil servants and tenants at the Ministry of Defense, they're subject to the Law on civil servants and tenants. We're talking about members of the Serbian Army. Does this mean that if you have a civilian who is a member of the Serbian Army today, he gets rights that have military faces? You have the answer in special provisions, in Article 134. The law. Look at one thing, it's the people who get the benefits in their salaries and pay them off. Why isn't it looked at that way? I would understand your argument if you had said, and you didn't touch it, you have persons who voluntarily serve a military term today. Are they members of the Serbian Army? They did. Are they covered by this proposal? They're not, and they shouldn't be. They are members of the Serbian Army for several months while serving a military term. Is in the case of God not mobilizing every one of us who are military bonds, a member of the Serbian Army? Yes, it is. It is therefore very important to define what the Constitution has given. The constitution says very clearly – members of the army. It may also be a civilian, it may also be a military person, but it is a civilian who, by entering the Serbian Army system, has accepted certain conditions of doing the job. You've got civilian faces here that make certain benefits. A civil servant or deputy, a state official working at the Ministry of Defence, does not base his working-law relationship on a labour contract, but on a solution made by the defence minister. When it comes to a civilian who works in the Serbian Army under a labor contract...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21311	Time, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21312	I'm done. Certain rights bear certain obligations, I think we've made this very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21313	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Defence, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, Article 5 proposes to amend Article 14(2) to prohibit membership in political parties to apply equally to all professional members of the Serbian Army, that is an explanation given by the ministry, and we have proposed two more amendments in Article 14. In position 1, the original law says – military personnel are prohibited from attending political parties' meetings in uniform and any political activity, except for the use of active voting rights, i.e. to vote. We've suggested and we think it's a better definition and a better definition. He says - military personnel are forbidden to attend political parties' meetings in uniform. Any political activity in political parties, as well as running for elections and participating in an electoral campaign for state authorities, territorial autonomy authorities, local self-government units, more precisely define a ban on political activities of military officials, as set out in the constitutional ban, you said in Article 55(5), is it so that a member of the military cannot be a member of the political party, we believe that the ban on political activities should be in that spirit and set it up to prohibit political activities in political parties, as well as the ban on passive voting rights. The next position we agree with the defence ministry's proposal that the "professional military person" is replaced by the words "professional member of the Serbian Army", but in the next position in paragraph 4, which it says - professional members of the Serbian Army have the right to trade union in accordance with government regulations. We have proposed that these "rules" governments be replaced by the words "legislative" and that this position would be read – professional members of the Serbian Army have the right to union organisation in accordance with the law; and we think that this is more meaningful than government regulations. Item 4. talks about the subject of union association and I'll read it to you. He says – the subject of union association, organisation and trade union activities cannot be the provisions and application of laws and other regulations relating to the composition, organisation and formation of the Serbian Army, operational and functional capacity, the use and completion of Serbia's Army, preparedness and mobilization, the equipment of arms and military equipment, commanding and handling in Serbia and the management of defence systems. We have suggested that, as an option of union consideration or agreement or conversation, we leave the equipment with arms and military equipment and handling, because we think it would be to the benefit of the army of Serbia, not to the harm, that it can also be trade union debated on these topics, so I hope that as proposings you will consider, especially you, Minister Selakovic, and that you will accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21315	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21316	Thank you, Chairman. I will relate to the discussion my colleague Bradic had. In this amendment, we tried to influence a member, change him, which refers to the rights of the military, including the union organization. In fact, union organization is legally possible. However, we felt here that it was necessary for questions related to these offices of the law, and we were particularly assured by Defence Minister Gasic through his discussion in the debate on this law in principle when we presented to him the demands of the Serbian Union, which indicated that they had not participated in the public debate, that some solutions to the damages of military persons etc., etc., when Mr Gasic said – yes, but there are no military unions, there is no union that has met the conditions to be representative. So, now in Serbia's Army, at least according to Mr. Gasic, there are no unions and they cannot be organised to properly ask the question of their salaries, receiving everyone else about it. We have asked that here, as a right involving a union organization, the right for military unions to debate and ask questions concerning equipment. It may be possible to specify this by mouth or by supplementing the amendment. So, equipment related to the security of military personnel. So it doesn't matter if military personnel have equipment that affects their safety, whether places where they do military service, barracks, etc., ammunition warehouses, are they adequately equipped? We have, unfortunately, had very bad experiences where some persons and died, suffered precisely because it was not in an adequate way, possibly from the management staff, adequately handled by means and probably was not security at an adequate level, and in this sense we believe that military unions, unions in the military of Serbia, would have the opportunity and should have the opportunity to discuss and ask questions concerning equipment, and concerning their personal security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21317	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Defence and Home Affairs Committee has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21318	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, honored guests, colleagues and colleagues, member of 14a speaks of a union organisation in the military. I'll read it to make it clear to the citizens what we're going to talk about. So, a professional member of the Serbian Army according to the old version was not allowed, and now the ministry says – with the prior consent of the defence minister, it can approve participation in the activities of the association that achieve the following objectives: reform of the Serbia-dobrane and military system, harmonisation of the rules of generalised standards and regulations of the EU, building a defence strategy and doctrine of the Serbian Army, which determines the composition, organisation and formation of the Serbian Army, operational and functional capacity, the use and completion of Serbia's Army, preparedness and mobilisation, the equipment and military equipment, command and management of Serbia's defence systems, participation in multinational operations and internal relations in the military. We have suggested that this amendment be deleted and, here, give you our explanation. Article 6 The draft law is proposed to amend Article 14a of the Law. Article 14a prohibits professional members of the Serbian Army from taking part in the activities of the association established to achieve goals related to military-defense issues. The proposal suggested allowing members of the Serbian Army to participate in the activities of such associations, but with the previous agreement of the defence minister. Since the Constitution does not contain an explicit ban, nor does it impose any restrictions on participation in the activities of the association in matters of the military, we do not see any reason for such restrictions to be imposed in law. The solution offered by the proposal opens up the possibility of arbitration in the decision of the minister. For all these reasons, we consider it necessary to delete Article 14a. One more piece of information. Before this session of the committee there was controversy over this member and it was said that it was not in principle question, but, here, to share my thoughts with fellow Members, since the minister will decide on each request individually, this is the first issue of technical feasibility, and what we heard from the Secretary of State, that it is necessary that at the Ministry, i.e. The minister and the top of the military's leadership know where any of the members of the army are and what associations he is active at. I realized that he should be informed of those people who want to engage somewhere. I don't suppose and I don't want to think that there are organisations in the country of Serbia that act against internal arrangements, just work. I'm counting on all the members of the army engaged in some associations to do it for the best of their intentions, and these associations are working on the welfare of this community, so I think you should accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21319	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21320	Thank you. As far as this amendment is concerned, I will primarily remain consistent with the position I have given in the principle debate. I am glad that, in some way, as the first authorised by the application for a word, I have imposed a theme on the fullness of this Article 14a, at least in this form in which amendments and additions to the Vojsca Law are proposed. In light of the changes and additions made to the Military Act in 2009, at that time the most objection was caused by the controversy over the introduction of the still valid, of course, at this point in Article 14a, which had fully provided for a ban on members of the military in civil society organisations, which are directly or indirectly dealing with defence and security issues. At that moment, I am talking about 2009, in a still valid legal provision, when you add to it by a foreign association which is also dealing with such issues, which are not disputed, and association is in such a way possible, which only points to the illegality, contrary to the constitution of such a provision of the law, which it has insisted on. I hope not in the future. I was in a position, and in the principle debate, I made it very clear and stated, that it was necessary to delete such a member of 14a. Of course, the proposed changes and additions did not result in the full erasure of Article 14a, but are foreseen that a professional member of the Serbian Army, with the previous consent of the defence minister, could be granted participation in the activities. In fact, whenever there is a provision that gives discretionary powers in the hands of only one person, I think it increases the possibilities of abuse and you can never rule out that element of selectivity. We accept what Minister Gasic said in the discussion in principle, and on the occasion of article 14a, that such a single issue will be settled by sublegal acts. I believe that this is the right solution, but in that sense, I think that such a sublegal act should be stated in this provision itself, and in the sense that Article 14a is more complete and precise, and it says that it can be approved, with the previous consent of the defence minister, and then all of this, instead of the point of being a decimal, and all of it based on sublegal acts in which it will be specified and taxed, in which a professional member of the military can be, or in which associations may belong, and in which it is not. I think it's all the opposite. Of course, when it comes to something like this, it can be challenged. I'm opposed to even survival and the existence of an existing member who, of course, is better than the formerly valid one. Simply, whenever it was brought before, in the same sentence you had the word "military" and the word "civil association", you know, it was pretty retrograde, so it associated with those unfortunate 1990s, where the apriori thought that if you were a member of a citizen association, you were actually a state enemy. I say to this Article 14a, it seems one shift, but instead of a point it was necessary to complete the sentence to the end, so to say what Mr Gasic himself said - and in accordance with the sublegal acts, and then to make a taxation of which association is and where it is possible, and where it is not possible, precisely for the reason that one member of the law to be more precise, more complete and ultimately, to give full meaning to what the aim of the promoter is, and I have never questioned that meaning, nor slow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21321	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21322	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would agree with some of the things that have been said. Is the existing provision of the law harsh? Yes, it is. Was the condition before her prescription good, then, when we had one complete void? It wasn't good. Obviously, there were some objective or subjective problems when the one who proposed amending and supplementing the 2009 Law proposed such a provision. We need to find a solution. I don't know how sincere the person who proposed this amendment and the addition of the law in 2009 was. If memory serves me well, one of the motives was for those who were then criticising certain reform processes in the military, which were just certain associations of citizens or, as is popular today, civil society organisations. These are, among other things, if you remember correctly, the Association of Retired Generals and Admirals, which should have been prevented, it was one of the objectives, active members of the Army of Serbia, or military persons, to take part in the functioning of such NGOs, i.e. citizens' associations. I don't think that's good. Also, I don't think it's a good solution that existed before the 2009 amendment and the amendment of the law. An army in our country, several times here today in debate, applies to one of the well-organized systems, where everyone's place is known and who does what. Of course it's impossible for one organization to end up in one sentence, which counts so many members, that one man, which is the defence minister, decides on the demands of 5, 10 or 15 thousand people. But there is a mechanism that will be regulated by a sublegal act, where it is assumed by the organisational units and that unit itself will give opinions on it. That it is necessary to hear in such cases and the voice of professional members of the Serbian Army, I absolutely think it is unequivocally clear and should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21323	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21324	Thank you. With full understanding of the arguments and colleagues Blago Blago Bradic and counterpart Olgica Batic, with full consent, I must support the solution to approve participation with the previous consent of the defence minister. My explanation is life. There would be no ratification of Resolution 1325 "women, peace and security" without the participation of the Serbian Army. It is a simple decision that has been made very precise and I am grateful to all those who, both as professional members of the military and the Ministry of Defence, have participated in this decision infinitely, because it has made many good status for Serbia in the world and I think it will only do good by organising a political council and submitting a report to the Security Council. I would like this to be understood that members of the Serbian Army, who are professionally equipped with experience, knowledge, ready, should be given space for them to be allowed to participate in civil society organisations. I'll just give you two examples. The OSCE recently established the so-called The non-permanent body led by Ambassador Ischinger, which deals with what is said in the old Serbian language by tin-tank, respected people. I would like with civil organisations from Serbia, with the Belgrade Forum, with the "Belgrade Fund for Political Excellence" to be co-operation with members of the Serbian Army, to have seats there. This does not mean daily engagement or whatever, but means that by working with civil society with us we say – wait for the OSCE, we have these two, three, one, they know everything that can be useful for you when it comes to conflict and post-conflict states or when it comes to military structures in pre-conflict states. "Belgrade Fund for Political Extraordinary", even to Decaf, formally, it is a civil organisation for you, and I know that the Serbian Army can help those people who participate in international forums through civil organisations with their knowledge. It used to be possible, sometimes not. I'm not saying that this is the happiest formulation, and I know the minister won't take it, so daily, he'll get a certain item, or he'll know by some line who's responsible for approving who and what organizations he's going to participate in. Can you sublaw it? I don't know, but I'm explaining why I think it should be. My personal position, I would like to see members of the Serbian Army in organisations dealing with environmental protection. There aren't any, and it's really important and it's just gonna be important. Are they forbidden to be in the protection of the environment? I know it's not forbidden, but it's gone, and I know it positively, because I know from other places people who could teach us what to do with erosion and where, before anyone is conditionally saying civil expert. Whether or not they will be members of the military in that environmental sector, which it deals with, I don't know, but I do know that I would like them to be, because it is collective knowledge, skills and experience that should not only remain organised by the Serbian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21325	Your group of MPs has wasted their time. The word has the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21326	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the Army, I will immediately deny the previous speaker. ABH centre from Kruševac has very close co-operation with the NGO sector and with an association of citizens called "Bela Beza" and is engaged in environmental protection. That's all for your notice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21327	The word has been given by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21328	By amendment, another time. I think there's been a classic replacement of thesis here. My intention is neither when I am in the debate in principle nor in particular today, I do not think that this is the intention of the promoter, or the applicant of the amendment, to dispute any role of the army or, God forbid, the membership of the army in NGOs, in the associations of citizens, as it used to be, but rather the opposite. Beware of the situation, I asked that article 14a be completely deleted, not that something, such as earlier in 2009, should be banned from professional members of the military or are now being restricted to them, that is to say, to be extremely permitted, but only by the discretionary assessment of the minister. I fully support the Army and my position is more than broad-minded. I'm in favour of abolishing all the bans, for one absolute involvement of members of the Army in those organizations and those associations of citizens they find appropriate and appropriate, and of course, something like that in those forbidden, we have such situations, of course, there are other mechanisms, where a member of an army that becomes a member, for example, of such an association, can be initiated disciplinary proceedings. My intention is not even a little bad, even on the contrary, I am not for this kind of restriction, but for giving absolutely all rights to military representatives in the absolutely non-governmental sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21329	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I fully understand and accept that in the day of the vote, you will vote on what the Ministry of Defense has proposed. It is a reflection of the policy of the congregation's majority and it is your view of solving these problems. You will allow, we have the right to express our political vision and to disagree on some of the proposals and solutions you make here in this House. Personally, I think that the members of the Serbian Army are sufficiently educated, aware, educated and that there are some associations where their membership would be problematic, that they are under no circumstances, as Nišlje says, would not join those associations, that as many professional and quality people as possible should be hired by the Serbian Army in such associations to help with their knowledge and experience. You should, that's my opinion. My God, I hope that in the next period, when he tries to bring this back to life, I don't want to be too negative in thinking, but I think this is inconclusive, because I don't see how it's going to be done. In particular, I do not like to have my involvement, discretionary rights, someone above me, acting on something that is not closely related to the military service, so I ask you once again to think about it and I think it would be useful to accept the discussion and colleague Batic and mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21331	Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic submitted together to the 8th amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21332	A good decision from the Proposer to accept the amendment. The point of the amendment is that in the basic text, we change the word "commander" in the word "old man", not only cosmetic, it's just natural, it's not too big a mistake, but it's really good that the promoter accepted. I thank him on behalf of my colleagues Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac for accepting this amendment and for correcting the text of Article 9.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21333	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21334	In the basic text of the bill, Article 12 speaks of what and how it agrees with Article 11 and in the basic texts, they say – for an officer in all families and services, except for river units: Lieutenant, Lieutenant, Captain, Major, Colonel, Colonel, Brigadier General, Major General, Lieutenant General, Lieutenant General and General. Point 2): in river units, a supporter, a corvette lieutenant, a frigate lieutenant, a corvette captain, a frigate captain, a battle number captain, a commodore, a counter-admiral, a vice-admiral and an admiral, and attitude 3 is deleted. What we have suggested is that the introductory phrase is changed and that it says "the acts in the Serbian Army are" so that it can be further cited. It's a perfectly logical amendment to me. Not by spirit, not by intent any worse than the amendments that we asked for the word "commandant" to be changed to the word "old man", which is essentially more natural, and that amendment was happily accepted, but this one was not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21335	Member of the 16th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21336	In the text of the bill, members who change refer to a person who is a professional member of the Serbian Army that is health and psychophysically capable of serving in the Serbian Army, that he is not over 35 years old if accepted as a sub-office, or 40 years if accepted as an officer, that he has been screened for safety and that there is no security interference for admission to the professional military service, in accordance with the regulations governing security checks at the Ministry of Defence, that he has served a military term with arms, and attitude 3 is changed and there is an act on admission to professional military service of a person who does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 1 of this Article. We have suggested adding point 10 to point 9 – that he is not a member of the political party. The explanation that this is meant by another member is possible, but if we are already going in detail through the description of his or her health, psychophysical abilities, years and security checks, then we felt that we should also in this article that it stands completely clear that he is not a member of the political party. For professional military personnel, I repeat, we have always considered it natural, we have considered it good for the military, we have considered it good for the whole society that one who is a professional military person, under new law, a member of the Serbian Army, is not a member of the political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21337	The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halim, Enis Imamovic, Sabina Dazdarevic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21338	With the proposed amendment, we amend Article 40(2), which in the basic text of the Bill's proposal, refers to cadets, in special conditions, cadet of a military higher education institution that meets the conditions laid down in Article 39(2), (5) and (8) of this law, by completing education, shall be admitted to the professional military service and products in the act of a supporter and shall become an officer from that day on. That is what the text of the bill reads. What is the proposal of Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and me is that this member is – a cadet of a military higher education institution that meets the requirements of Article 39(2), (5) and (8) of this law is admitted to the professional military service and products in the act of a supporter and from that day on becomes an officer, and a cadet of a military higher education institution which does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 39(2), (5) and (8) of this law is received in another capacity in service in Serbia or in the defence ministry as a civilian. The reason for the rejection is that it should not be covered by a person who, as a cadet, has fulfilled and who is not. We think that even a cadet that doesn't meet the conditions would know what will be, she knew, anyway, because the valuable time and work they have invested in his or her training didn't end by meeting or fulfilling all the conditions, but it could end well, according to the Serbian Army, in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21339	National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21340	The amendment proposed by Article 23 concerns receiving and bearing the distinction of foreign states. The proposed law reads - a military person can receive and bear the distinction of a foreign country, i.e. an international organisation, after the approval of the President of the Republic. What we have proposed is that this member is – a professional military person can receive and carry the medal of a foreign country, or an international organisation, after the approval of the President of the Republic. After now that military officials have stopped being professionally changed by members who will turn it into members of the Yugoslav Army, the question now is whether they can remain in the bill of law as we are allowed to stand a military person. It's gone. We have relied on it to be a professional military person but by becoming members of the Serbian Army, the military face will remain to be defined. I know it may seem completely irrelevant and that it's known, but trust me on these little things, big scandals are being created, so let's avoid it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21341	National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Komic. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21342	The text of the bill defines what the official data are, in point 2, so says - official data; property; rank; name and home number of the organisational unit in which it is located; place of service, or schooling; from when it is at the service, i.e. education, command, unit and establishment of the Serbian Army, or organisational unit of the Ministry of Defence and until when it is at the service, if in working relation to a given time, i.e. education and identification number for the person providing health services. We have minor, although not only linguistic changes, and we say that this member should be the person who provides health care services on the basis of an insight; an act; the name and home number of the organisational unit in which he is located; the place of service; from when he is in service, i.e. education, command, unit and establishment of the Serbian Army, or the organisational unit of the Ministry of Defence, or education, and until when he is at work, if in working relation to a certain time. So it's just an inversion of a sentence that seems to sound better.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21343	The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21344	A member who is in the debate is – the authorities of the military police officers act on the request of the military-disciplinary prosecutor and the president of the military-disciplinary court to bring professional members of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence who are suspected of committing a disciplinary offense, avoiding a hearing in disciplinary reconnaissance or a major search before a military disciplinary court. Our proposal is to change and to read - military police can be involved in helping internal affairs authorities in peace, emergency or emergency situations, based on the request of the competent authority, following the approval of the defence minister. The most controversial part of this is that you give authority to officials, military police to bring in. There's detention, there's detention, there's no bringing it in. Please correct it, so that there is no place where the face is taken, where the face is brought. You can bring in a face and that face must know why it's being brought in, you can keep your face and that face must know why it's being held back, take anyone anywhere you can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21345	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21346	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the proposed amendment is absolutely clear. Namely, it came into force, and following the latest amendments and additions to the Military Act, the CAP was brought in. That code knows the institution's entry for questioning. So, not incarceration, but in bringing to a hearing without delay. You can say it's not like that, I say it is. You can compare it to the text of the CAP and you'll see that it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21347	Mrs. Comic, do you follow the amendment? (Gordana Comić, from the place: I have no time, I wanted a sentence as a replica. I thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21348	Thank you. He would look back briefly if indeed the period of our government's conduct had marked the intensity to correct what was corrupt or in bad condition, and brought about during the previous government. When we hear today that the amendments are submitted by people who have exercised power until yesterday, who were defence ministers, who have not only provided or ordered representatives of military police or representatives of special forces to provide individuals such as former officials and not only them, but also ordered that the state funds provide houses such as former Minister Dragan Sutanovac made possible or ordered that the house be made available to former Minister Snezani Malovic, it is indeed all leading to a difficult situation for citizens who, when they listen today, listen to representatives of the authorities today trying to make superhuman efforts and improve the proposals of the law, ask themselves why they are now pointing to, alleged illogicalities, and in this particular case, there is no ilness because they are only working on harmonising with the new provisions of the ZKP. So why didn't these people who exercised power until yesterday use it all, all that art, skills, attention, knowledge to show what they could do and what they know when they were in power, and not now try to honor those who really want the state of Serbia to office one valid way and try to make those who really resist to achieve it as insufficiently competent for such a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21349	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, you're back in the system. (Gordana Comic, from the post: Replica na Ministerial Exhibition. ) I haven't seen in the presentation of Mr. Minister anything that would allow you a replica, but since we're... (Gordana Comić, from the scene: but I heard it. ) Mrs. Comic, you didn't let me say it till the end. But since, at that point, me and the chairman were changing, it's possible I didn't hear. You have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21350	The argument on the CAP does not stand for this, because this is a disciplinary procedure from the situation completely different. So I asked you to think about the expression, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21351	Thank you. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, representatives of the Republic of Serbia's Army, what Mrs Comic was saying is very concerned about the DS MPs for a simple reason because we believe that the disputed extension of military police powers in cases where there is a suspicion that a civilian has committed a criminal act against the Republika Srpska Army. So from earlier practice, this provision was not disputed, it was also identical from our point of view, but this allows broad application, perhaps even to political opponents. While we are discussing amendments today, there is a session of the Security Control Committee where some MPs are, as the debate on amendments continues to take place, it is not possible for them to attend the session, nor for me personally as a deputy board member. We have submitted this amendment for the simple reason that the Citizens' Protector had certain information that they spoke about being unauthorized, without any court decision, to perform a certain processing of union representatives, leaders of the opposition and many others and, therefore, on that committee today, to conduct controversy and debate, where the unremembered attack of SNS MPs was directed to Mr Sasha Jankovic as the Citizens' Protector. We think this amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21353	Mr. Bozovic, if you want to talk about this, you have a Security Control Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21354	That's the subject of the Committee and here's the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21355	There can't be any committees here and here. Mr. Bozovicu...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21356	Let me finish and please give me my time. So the subject of the Committee and this amendment is identical. There are too many powers at stake for members of the military police when it comes to the persons of civilians suspected of committing a crime against the Republika Srpska Army. We intend to correct what was the intentions or demands of the Citizens' Protectors with this amendment, where all the data and documents the Citizens' Protector asks of the Ministry of Defence, simply the Ministry has not delivered yet, and therefore we believe that this is outrageous in post-five-octobaric Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21357	I may not understand it, but other MPs don't understand it, as I hear it. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21358	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, respected colleagues, our fellow MPs seem to be not reading a good article 27. Article 27 says: "The authorised officials of the Military Police act at the request of the military disciplinary prosecutor and the President of the Military Discipline Court to bring professional members of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence." Civilian faces are not mentioned here. As far as bringing them, it's clear from where they're being brought. So, if they avoid it, they are brought to a hearing in disciplinary reconnaissance or brought to the main search. Please, don't manipulate me anymore. Simply read what article 27 says from the beginning to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21359	Thank you. The word is Mrs Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21360	Thank you. Dear Chairman, although I have the understanding that you allow MPs to speak beyond the agenda, I must remind you of your obligation to warn the MP not to speak on the agenda in accordance with Article 27 and Article 106. A little while ago, we had an extraordinary one-exposure, but about an amendment that's no longer under review. My amendment. A Vesna Rakonjac, from the place: That's the one. ) I am asking the chairman, too, that a people's letter that casts – this is the one, warns also that it is not the one. On Article 27, which is under review, the amendment was submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The amendment, which, with your approval, has explained here, is the amendment that I submitted to and to which the search has passed. So I have an understanding for you, because the exposure was interesting, but I think it would be good if every MP who doesn't know what's on the agenda was warned on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21361	Mrs. Komic, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. We are now discussing Mr Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic's amendment to article 27. I have a clear view of what is required, that Article 27 of Section 3 and Section 4 are deleted... (Balsa Bozovic throws out of town. Mr. Bozovic, let me finish. But seeing as I don't need to read you the amendment you gave, where I don't see exactly the purpose of your previous debate, but still, let's move on. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21362	I have to admit, I'm not quite sure whether the amendment has been properly submitted, but it's already up to the Committee, because it's said, point 3 and point 4. I think these are points 3 and 4. So I don't know what you want to delete? If you want to delete points 3 and 4, then that's something that already existed and that's what you brought. Maybe you're criticizing something from your period? Let me make a mistake. Maybe you're wrong, maybe I'm a board, and maybe I'm wrong. But I don't get it, if it applies to points 3 and 4, why would this be deleted, because it seems to me, it already exists? What we could hear here, it's obvious that someone submitted an amendment to talk about something else. That's what's not nice and what's not good for this congregation. And the truth is, it was the citizens' protector who admitted that it wasn't the VBA that broke the law, but that he had indications, so he wanted to check it out. But that's why there's been an unfeeling campaign here for days, to disrupt the credibility of the VBA and the Army of Serbia at all. And that is why I remain in that position that our Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, is not doing the job properly as it should be done. I personally have the right as an MP to criticise him, because he is reporting to me here, as he is to all of you, and in that sense he is not independent, but he is also dependent on this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21363	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Replica, talked about my amendment. ) It is not enough for someone to discuss someone’s amendment so that it is a basis for replication. (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: he said I was wrong. Mr. Bozovic, it's not worth it. Please read the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am really trying not to answer when I have nothing to say and so far I have been really patient and listening to everything and everything, but I have heard in my rich parliamentary experience an attempt to reach the media space, a space to explain my views, and, as it usually happens, everything in life is turning – who by yesterday was worse, is down there. Those who tried to honor us yesterday who were opposition not to write amendments are now growing the same thing 10 times more than we used to do when we were in opposition. So this technical part of this amendment is indeed a picture and an opportunity of the situation in which the opposition is presently located, in which the parties working hard to be the opposition, although their members are now taking up some kind of principal position in some kind of official messenger. I don't need to remind you about it right now, and I don't want to get off the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21365	Please, Mr. Todorovic, don't talk out of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21366	So, as you've heard, I've already mentioned it and I said that there are two aspects I'd like to say something about this amendment. The first is this technical one, which I've already told you about, and the second is essentially this one. Today, DS representatives are rebelling or struggling to reduce the military police's jurisdiction. I was present until a moment ago at the Security Control Committee and I left the meeting of the committee precisely because of the fact I learned then, when I presented the defence minister, who said that the previous defence minister had misused his rights must have done certain things that were very harmful to the budget of all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21367	Mr. Todorovic, what you're discussing right now has nothing to do with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21368	The jurisdiction of the military police should not be reduced. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21369	I thank Mr. Todorovic. The word has a minister, Mr. Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21370	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have sent this very carefully and I must say I do not understand this amendment. This is where you search for the delete of attitude 3 and attitude 4. The 3rd position – in the present attitude 8, which becomes the 9th position – of a civilian, we replace ourselves with the word – of a civilian. Paragraph 4 reads - after the earlier attitude of the 9th position, which becomes the 10th position, a new attitude is added – the official ID of the authorised military police officer contains a photograph, name and last name, the unique home number of the authorised official of the military police, and the badge of the authorised official of the military police also contains a serial number. Why do these attitudes bother someone? Change of formulation from – civilian face to – civilian, and define the content of official ID of the authorised official of the military police. I have not heard from the promoter a satisfactory explanation of why these attitudes should be deleted. Neither are they in line with what the proposer of this amendment has made in support of his amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21371	Thank you, Mr. Minister. That's exactly what I said, that I don't understand what amendment the amendment promoter is talking about. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21372	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, part of my discussion as I intended to pronounce has already been said by the Minister of Justice. So it is unacceptable for me to ask that someone from the official ID of an authorised official of the military police, which contains a photo, name and unique number of citizens, be erased. Is it someone who advocates going unlegislative, as it was tapped without authority and as it was obtained by devices without authority? The article also contains that all authorised officials of the military police are acting on the request of a military disciplinary prosecutor, etc. It's most likely that someone is insisting that the procedure is not respected. If the procedure was once not followed, and the rule of law is the rule of law, and they are the best laws that are enforceable, but I fear that the previous regime ruled, not by the rules, but by some personal suggestion. I don't mind if the Guardian of Citizens is controlled by authorized officials, but in accordance with the law. The Protector of the Citizens cannot be above the official persons, or above the Prosecutor's Office, etc., as he wills. I think with this spying and counter-spying, we've gone too far. I think the Citizens' Protector should primarily take care of the rights of most citizens, and these are the poor, to take care of the poor, to feed the hungry, to treat the sick, and to respect the human rights of all. I'm afraid the Citizens' Protector is dealing with article 26.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21373	Mr. Risticevic, please, you must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21374	I'm on the amendment. I say I'm against being a member...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21375	This amendment has nothing to do with it, and when we look at it in parallel, even the amendment promoter did not properly submit the amendment, nor did he submit the amendment to what he wanted and did not speak about the amendment he submitted, so you are not speaking according to the amendment at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21376	Mr. Chairman, allow me. If the authorised persons do not have official IDs for which representatives of the opposition party want to say that they should be deleted, if we adopt this amendment and if those officials do not have official IDs, and who will be protected by the Protector of Citizens, who will they control? That's why I said I suggest that this Citizen Protector start a political party, so let him control whoever he wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21377	Mr. Risticevic, I thank you for returning to the amendment and for clarifying to me what I do not yet understand in this amendment. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: I am reporting again after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21378	Mr. Chairman, in the amendment submitted by a group of opposition MPs, there is a position that reads - the official ID of the authorised military police officer contains a photograph, name and surname, the unique home number of citizens of the authorised military police officer, and the badge of the authorised military police officer contains a serial number. They asked to delete it. So, what kind of officially authorized person does not have any official ID? That's what I'm talking about. How, then, will the Protector of the Citizens control what these authorized persons do if we delete their right to have that ID? That's the amendment. I'm sorry if you didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21379	You're right, Mr. Risticevic. I have just commended you for making it clear to me, since we now see that the amendment promoter has not submitted an amendment to the members he wanted to submit to. Thank you. National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to the 31st amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment to be an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21380	Thank you. In the draft law, this article defines the change of attitude 1 and says the officer, or sub-officer, is to be addressed to the country and abroad and to abroad education that lasts at least one school year is relieved of his duties. Our proposal is that this decision on discharge of duties lasts longer than one school year, because if you leave it to last at least one school year to be relieved of duty, it is logical that if it takes two years to resolve the same from duty. But then we think it's simple and without interpreting that anything that lasts longer than one school year means a discharge from duty. These trainings are also good that they are there, because the Army of Serbia, with exceptional grades, has taken what is from the so-called "Swedish Table" "Partnership for Peace" and has it in exchange. It's just a language change. I don't insist on anything else, but I think it's okay to be relieved of duty if it's more than a year of training.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21381	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21382	The amendment under investigation speaks of a professional military person who has been prevented from performing his duty because of his pregnancy, maternity leave and child care. It is one of the amendments for which I am pleased to be searched in particular, as I am extremely pleased about all the changes to the better that the Serbian Army, the defence minister, all in a series, and Mr Rodic, and Mr Gasic, have made in the greater presence of women just as professional military persons and the presence of military gymnasiums and military academy and tribes of the army. This is one situation where a professional person is such that because of pregnancy, maternity leave, care of a child or special care of a child is said to be not relieved of duty. Part of the sentence: "and has rights prescribed by general rules on work" we consider it unnecessary. She or she has the right to benefit from the rules that are general rules on work, because the key and idea of this member is that she is not relieved of duty because she is pregnant, because she is on maternity leave, because of the child's care or because someone who wants to take maternity leave does not necessarily have to be a woman. Only this part of the sentence, because those rights prescribed by the general labour regulations stand and stand. The key thing is this, it's a good solution not to be relieved of duty in these cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21383	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21384	Thank you. I don't understand why this would be deleted, given that it's in line with our working legislation where, for this particular service, I think they give me special rights. So, if we delete this, I'm afraid that we would deny the rights to women who are in the military, who are officers, who are on maternity leave, and later on in maternity leave. I really think that this sentence is good, and I believe that even the esteemed proposer of this amendment will still agree to keep something like this, because we can come into a situation where these women are denied those rights that are otherwise prescribed by our working legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21385	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21386	Let me explain. There's one part of the Labour Act that applies to women who want to stop their maternity leave before 12 months are out and there's the right to breastfeeding and child care in that sense. So, I think this should stay, because this way, if we delete this, we would deny these women the right that belongs to them under the Labour Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21387	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21388	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's absolutely justified that this part of the formulation of this position is for one single reason, or, not for one single reason, there are a number of reasons, but one is crucial to me. Therefore, it is undeniable that a professional military person who is prevented from performing a duty because of pregnancy, maternity leave, childcare or special care of a child is not relieved of his duties, but in case we do not put this provision: “and has the right prescribed by general rules on labour”, we would come to a hypothetical situation that such a military person who is on this kind of leave from performing his duties, for example, can be disciplined and under general rules on the work of a person who is on maternity, maternity leave, leave for care or special care of a child cannot. This is a "lex specialis" that applies to members of the Serbian Army. I am responsible for saying this, because we had big problems, let's say, when you talk about civil servants, and that's where the regulations apply, general labour regulations, and that's specifically stated in the Civil Service Act, as stated by the law on special, let's say, judicial officials. So that the survival of this part of the attitude and how justified it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21389	Thank you. National MP Konstantin Arsenovic submitted to the 44th amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21390	I did not comment on the previous two amendments, although I was still convinced that they could not be accepted for the simple reason that some of them would not have some important material proverbs. However, I have submitted an amendment to Article 44 that regulates the retirement of professional persons if necessary. I believe that such a solution given in the law can have extremely great consequences for future people who are retired on this basis for the simple reason that the solution given in the Military Act and the solutions given in the Retirement Act are contrary. I have read the amendment submitted by Mr Babic and it is an attempt to alleviate this problem. He says here that the position and opinion of the competent ministry will be sought, however, it is not a solution to be convinced. First, there is no reason for this ministry, not even to give its opinion for the simple reason why it does not suffer the consequences. He'll apply his law, so he'll suffer after a person who's retired. But, on the other hand, what happens if you don't give consent? Then what are you going to do with that face? I have a duty, simply to say more for the simple reason that since 2004, military pensioners have been suing the state, unfortunately, it's ugly, I have to say it's ugly. We swore to defend our country in the end we have to sue that state of ours for, or inaccuracy in laws or come on, not to say will or misread, let's be gentle. I don't want to accuse anyone of doing it on purpose, but the consequences are enormous. You have a 2004 lawsuit about 30,000 now since 2008 and unfortunately the military pensioners were right. But the problem is that there are still about 12,000 pensioners who haven't been paid pensions since 2004 that followed them because they haven't been sued. It's the Constitutional Court now. I'm not going to potentiate that problem, am I? But I would never want an officer or a retired officer to have the need to sue his country again. I wouldn't want the state to stick its hand in his pocket, or he deserved it, please. The worst I apologize for, I won't pick up afterwards, I simply want to appeal and now I ask that this solution, the amendment submitted by Mr Babic, is in some way easing it, but believe me, I am a constant, or I have tried to analyze both the law - is not the solution. You gentlemen will punish my officers who are hereby retired for life. You forget, in the meantime, that amendments to the Law on PIO have come where the penalty points have been imposed because someone doesn't have enough age. In that law, that supplement is not an exception to military faces, please, they are subject to these faces. When you strictly apply that law, such a person will get 50% pensions from the one he would otherwise get under the law. Please, is that okay or isn't it okay? So I don't have a solution here right now. My simple solution was to delete and to find a solution in the meantime. This offered solution, it's a little blurry, I'm sorry for the expression, it's a little lenient, but be sure, get into the problem and you'll see. I wish I was wrong, but I'm convinced 99% that I'm right that people will have problems. Especially because, through the amendment Mr. Babić submitted, all categories and services are now classified, and those who are sick, and those who are disabled, and those who have lost their jobs because of something and so on. It can't all be classified in the same basket there's some difference in that category. I simply cannot ask you to accept this amendment of mine because it is not a solution. I tried simply to point out, because simply in this time, I can't offer a solution. But what is my appeal, that in the shortest possible time and request, this member here speaking of article 44 agrees with the Ministry of Labour, those two laws to agree. And then we won't have any problems. Otherwise, this is how it is now I'm afraid there will be problems. I hope there won't be any such persons who will be subjected to this treatment as in these previous two cases from 2004 and 2008, but still, there should be one person, why should we harm anyone unnecessarily, let me say. If anyone has done anything wrong, he can answer legally, please. Let her bear the legal consequences. If someone has to retire because of the need for service, it's not his fault and he doesn't have to suffer the consequences. That's why I know the need for this is what it's said here. That's what the army needs. I'm not against this proposed solution that you've offered, but I'm simply pointing to a problem that's about to happen. So, I'm pushing for this solution to be accepted, but to have that solution in the Law on PIO at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and that tomorrow people have no problems, because that pension solution will be brought by the responsible branch of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, not the Ministry of Defence, it will only bring the right solution for him to retire, and his pension will determine this. Gentlemen may not even get a pension, and what if such a possibility happens, if this is what the Ministry of Labour says – that person cannot retire under the Law on PIO Serbia. I thought I'd add this, to say, to explain, to point out that I was simply asking. Let it pass temporarily, but that it is necessary in as urgent or as fast a time as possible to find an adequate solution and bring this problem into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21391	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21392	Thank you to the President-in-Office, of course, I will speak for myself and in the day of voting to support this amendment, which was submitted to Article 44 by a distinguished colleague Arsenović, and from whom we were able to hear a lot on this very very little subject, which, of course, was not regulated in a way that was already to be regulated. I do not have anything special to add, as the applicant of the amendment, Mr Arsenovic, explained everything nicely, not only now in his presentation, but primarily in the debate in principle. Besides, I am an advocate of the position that in the absence of a solution, sometimes it is better to have no solution, so to make how it should be in a later period, but now it is only temporaryly easy to pay attention to and pay attention to some half solutions, and half solutions, temporary solutions, or whatever we call them at this point, nothing good in practice can produce, so I am fully in agreement with what the distinguished colleague Arsenovic said. After all, he better covers the subject than we do who do not belong, i.e. we must point out that, if nothing else, it is already well explained in the debate in principle, and besides this amendment itself, the amendment is submitted by a retired, professional member of the Republic of Serbia Army who certainly wants absolutely all the best for that army and all its members, including the retired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21393	Thank you. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after article 45 by members 45a and 45b, was submitted by the government. The Defence and Home Affairs Committee has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after article 46, was submitted by the government. The Defence and Home Affairs Committee has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Enis Imamovic, Sabina Dazdarevic and Shaib Kamberi submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoje Bradic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21394	I thank the president. Dear Ministers, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow Members of the People, is a member of 63rd in connection with Article 149 and speaks of disciplinary offenses. We have proposed that, in order not to read the whole article to take up your time, it states what is all a disciplinary offense and in one part the ministry has proposed to delete three positions, which is 21 which says – taking over the office of director, deputy or assistant director in a legal person without the approval of the competent state authority or violation of membership restrictions in the legal entity by a professional member of Serbia's Army. Then, the next member – the establishment of a company and public service and the occupation of entrepreneurship by a professional member of the Army. In the end, this third one is under regular number 23. – do not transfer management rights to economic operators or other persons, lack of data to the controller on the person whose management rights have been transferred or failure to prove to the controller that management rights are transferred by a professional member of the Serbian Army. You explained that all of this was covered under regular number 20, which says: work with compensation or reward outside the unit, i.e. an institution or an independent exercise of professional activity contrary to the conditions of a certain law. You gave another sentence as an explanation, that in practice it did not happen to place a professional member of the Serbian Army on the burden of carrying out these approaches. I think these three restrictions should remain, i.e. the reasons for disciplinary responsibility because I believe that what is under regular number 20 work with compensation or reward outside the unit, i.e. an institution or an independent exercise of professional activity contrary to the conditions of a certain law is very broad in order to require these three parts to remain in the law. The explanation is that it didn't happen. It didn't happen because it was forbidden. I think in the Serbian Army, it's absolutely respect for discipline and law, just when members of the army would not respect the law. Although something was forbidden under the law, normally every responsible and security officer of the Serbian Army would not accept it, and I don't see why you're taking this off, because by taking this off, it turns out that what is not forbidden is allowed and you're giving various interpretations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-28-0.u21395	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 69th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added to Article 70a after Article 70a, was submitted by the government. The Defence and Home Affairs Committee has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) In accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a regular break of one hour. We'll continue work at 4 p.m. Thank you. I thank the Department of Defense. (Ljiljana Nestorovic, from the post: Is it a vote? Can I help you? I know what I'm doing, don't worry, the break is regular, I'll see you at 4.20. Please don't make me say what I don't want to say in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I can say this. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, those of you who are attending the continuation of the work, we are only left to inform you that since we have completed the review of the amendments, I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, January 28, 2015, starting at 1800 hours, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I ask you to provide conditions for the vote. I appeal to the MPs to provide conditions for the vote at 6 p.m.
