ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24157	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we have received an amendment to Article 2. For the sake of citizens who are monitoring this transmission, let me explain what this is all about. Article 2 is the introductory part of the law, where the concepts are explained. Point 6 says: a terrorist is a person who, either with imagination or with another person, tries or commits a terrorist act in any way, directly or indirectly, encourages and assists in the execution of a terrorist act, has knowledge of the intention of a terrorist group to carry out a terrorist act, contributes to the execution or assists the group in continuing the conduct of a terrorist act with a common purpose – we have suggested that this word is deleted: "inconceived". We believe that in the concept of a terrorist, it is not used for closer determination of forms of wine and imagination. Namely, Article 391. A criminal act of terrorism, which, as a form of wine, provides for a direct imagination, makes it clear that no terrorist act can be carried out otherwise, except with imagination. I thank you for accepting the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24158	Thank you. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The word of the international envoy Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24159	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when we introduce some new institute or some new concepts into our legal and financial system, the essence is in the details. That's why I consider it a very important amendment to Article 2, which defines the concepts, and in particular I mean terrorism, terrorists, justifiable belief. In fact, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2, where, I think, we have better and more precisely defined a reasonable belief based on which someone is placed on the terrorist list, which is why his assets are further restricted or frozen. You have defined in the law the following: that it is justified to believe that the person is a terrorist, to fund terrorism, to be involved in the activities of a terrorist group or in the pursuit of a terrorist act, is the degree of conviction that a reasonable man of average intellectual ability can acquire on the basis of evidence, facts that are generally known or evidence and credible information that are available to the competent state authorities. In the same article, we have submitted an amendment to which we have defined legitimate confidence in the following way, because of the citizens, I will read the whole article, that is, just the part we are changing. We say that justifiable confidence is a belief that can be obtained on the basis of evidence, facts, which are evidence and credible information at the disposal of the competent state authorities. I believe, Minister, this definition is more accurate. Why do I still think you should reconsider this amendment? In fact, all these definitions stem from general definitions of terrorism, terrorists, and the problem is that they don't exist in the world. So there is no unique definition of terrorism or terrorists. In his time, Kofi Annan defined terrorism as an attack on fundamental law, order, on human rights, on peaceful dispute resolution. However, he himself admitted that this is a definition that is too broad and that there are very many basics and principles that can be an attack on fundamental law. Even the 2001 Security Council Resolution, 1373, calls for better international co-operation in the campaign against crime, or terrorism, but does not define terrorism. Even the situation is that in one country there are different definitions in different institutions. I'll set an example for the United States. In the State Department, terrorism is defined as predominant politically motivated violence, FBI terrorism defines itself differently. So in one country, terrorism and terrorists are defined in a number of ways. So I think, since there is no unique definition of terrorism, there is no definition that is accepted in court cases, that we should develop a debate today on the concepts, of the essence, because, I say, in detail, there is the essence. I believe our definition is better, more precise, and I believe this law will make it better and more precise, so I ask you to look again and adopt the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24160	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Branka Karavidić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24161	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I think it's a good thing the government has accepted this amendment. The SDS ZZS and the ZS have been working to fix this law and make it as accessible as possible. Otherwise, our amendment refers to Article 3 which is an integral part of the procedure that marks persons on the list. In Article 2, the proposer provided that an act setting out the list of designated persons was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". We have tabled the amendment and provided for the same list to be published on the official websites of the Government of Serbia and the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. I think it is good that you have accepted the amendment because, in fact and the bill, it provides for the obligations of certain entities to check the list when they operate or exercise their competences and to continue to take action in accordance with the findings. If the list were to be published only in "The Official Messenger", I think that the implementation of this obligation for all those who are obliged to do so would be significantly difficult. That's why I think it's a good thing you accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24162	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24163	In the principle debate, Mr Pavicevic and I said that we would support this law, that we expect our amendments to be accepted because they are meaningful and because they improve the law, because this is a serious topic. The question of terrorism is always serious, and all the measures that can be taken on behalf of the state against terrorism are something that should not be the subject of a political debate, but that we all work together to measure it, whether it's the law, whether it's regulations, whether it's the activities of certain state authorities, to make it all as effective as possible, as best as possible, without being something that anyone can tell us is too burdensome. When it comes to terrorism, nothing can be too much of a burden. On Article 3, that I do not read it, but which deals with the list of designated persons, who is on that list, on which basis, someone is coming to that list, and it says in point 1, that these are persons identified by the UN and other international organisations, the second basis is that it is on a proposal from the competent state authorities of the Serbian state and the third reason is that this is a reasoned request from another state. That list is created. She exists. Those on that list are users of the measures provided for in this law. In point 4, the Government is obliged to consider, at least once a year, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for financial affairs and, in the light of the attached opinion of the competent state authorities referred to in Article 5(1) of this Act, the justification for placing on the list of designated persons. Of course, fighting terrorism is one very serious thing and it must be fully serious, consistently done. I also accept that the state's relationship with people who are only suspected of what is the case with this list is more conservative, more firm, that there is not much easing and hiding behind some of the common human rights, but of course, we as a state cannot even abandon the area of human rights. That is why Mr Pavicevic and I have proposed that this position be changed and that the government is obliged to consider, at least twice a year, on a proposal from the finance minister, in the opinion of the competent authority, the justification for putting on the list of designated persons. So to be clear, once a year, that list is made. These people are being sanctioned because they're on that list and instead of being on that list once a year, when it's 12 months, until it's audited, it doesn't add up, it doesn't check that list, we suggested it be twice a year. The explanation by which the amendment proposed by Mr Pavicevic and I were rejected speaks of the essence of this government. In fact, the government says - the argument is not accepted, so among other things - we think that considering the justification for putting on the list of marked persons would be twice a year a great burden for the government. So, to repeat, I think that considering the justification of putting on a list of marked persons who suffer sanctions twice a year, means once in six months, it would be a great burden for the government. Is this the Retirement Government? Is this the government of people on vacation? How can the Government say for any proposal of any law, any amendment, that its conduct would be too burdensome? Does someone make you wear a state of arson, or does someone make you clean streets or something that's so defined, but we're just asking that once in six months, many officials, most of whom know their jobs, check the basics by which someone is put on this list and then see if that's the place that it took on that list is justified or not? You say – it is a great burden for us. So let's put it on so it doesn't happen once a year, but once in office, so you can determine that once and then you can do other things, you can design helicopter flights, you can deal with hiding the culprits for the floods, you can deal with everything other than what is the job of one government, and the job of one government is to keep it up to its citizens, and even those who are suspected of terrorism. And they have human rights. Of course, I said, we're in favour of a conservative solution, to make the criminal policy in this area as difficult as possible, as rigorously as possible. It's in our other amendments. We have a clear view of terrorism, but of course some minimum human rights must be respected even in this social category. It can't possibly be rejected in a way that I'm going to repeat again, because I think this is the impression of a week or a month or maybe the impression of this government after a year. The government is of the opinion that considering the justification for placing on the list of marked persons twice a year would be a great burden on the government. In the first part of the argument, it says that there are other mechanisms, but it does not say what these mechanisms are. If there are some serious mechanisms that can determine whether or not someone on this list is justified, then there is no need to deal with it. But if it's the government, and I think this is the area that the government has to deal with, and not to deal with ministers and deputy ministers, and I don't know who else, counselors from different speech areas, Italian, Spanish, French, English or who, then this solution is absolutely unacceptable, and the explanation is catastrophic. If it's a great burden for you to do your job, resign for it, not just the minister, but the entire government. There are many other reasons for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24164	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I must say that this amendment should be rejected for several reasons. One of the reasons is an oral argument that related to an argument that would go if someone collected signatures and discussed the government’s trust. It was mainly about all topics other than the content of the amendment. I will try to read what it says in the fourth law – the government is obliged to at least once a year, so at least once a year, which is minimum. Nowhere does it say that the government will not double-check the list of persons who are on the list of persons subject to terrorism. The government can do it once, it can do it five times, it can do it twice, as the promoter asks, but asking the government to do it necessarily multiple times a year than once for me is pointless. With that in mind, the government can when the situation requires it to check the list and review it several times over the year because the lists of those persons lead from the UN to our organs. If our government authorities provide information that this person is no longer on the list, then the government will certainly consider it. If there is no change, the government's obligation to do it twice is pointless, as my previous speaker would say. I believe that, regardless of the credibility of the amendment promoter, the amendment should be accepted if it meets some criteria. In this situation, it certainly does not need to be accepted, but I have already cited the reasons, and I think that the argument, unlike the reasoning of other MPs, was too much criticism, too much politics, and too little has been said about the amendment. If the matter of terrorism were to be understood consistently, I could also talk about political terrorism, economic terrorism, which our population suffered from 2000 to 2012 and then put all these, including a respected amendment promoter on the list. It should certainly be on the list of those who have committed economic and social terrorism against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24166	The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honored National Assembly President, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Ministers Vujovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, have submitted five amendments to this bill. The amendment we are now discussing is one of those five amendments, but it is not one of those five amendments and which has been adopted, since the government has adopted one of our five amendments, but not on this article and in my court unjustly. I will now try in five minutes, as far as I have for this speech, to convince, above all, Minister Vujovic and our guests from the ministry, and, of course, Members of Parliament and MPs, that it is justified to accept our amendment to Article 3. For precision, once again here to tell you what's going on. In Article 3, as regards the list of designated persons, the government proposes that the same government, once a year, on a proposal from the finance minister, consider the justification for putting the designated persons on the list. Who are the marked faces? That's what the previous article says. The marked person is a natural person, a legal person, a group or an association, registered, not registered, which is marked and placed on the list of terrorists, terrorist organisations or terrorists and is then added on the basis of which, honored gentlemen. Our proposal, proposed by Mr Zoran Zivkovic and myself, is that Article 3 of Section 4 is changed and said - The government is obliged to at least twice a year, and not once, as the government has proposed on the proposal of the minister, etc., to consider the justification of putting the designated persons on the list for terrorism, terrorist or terrorist organisation. We have explained, gentlemen, the MPs now, that we consider this amendment, if accepted, to establish a greater seriousness of the government on a matter that is central to the issue, globally speaking, gentlemen, it is the greatest threat, the greatest threat, and then the urgency of our government on this issue which is the world's biggest issue today and not only that, gentlemen, but the government, by accepting this amendment, would also show the direction towards effectiveness in the fight against terrorism, and that same government would, gentlemen, show one commitment to this same fight against terrorism. What happened? I really can't understand such an explanation for not accepting our amendment. The government tells us, as Mr. Zivkovic said, this amendment cannot be accepted because this solution is only one of the control mechanisms, and then added - to check these lists of marked persons twice a year, is a major burden for the government. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Vujovic, guests from the ministry, must not happen that our government says that in the fight against terrorism control once in six months, persons on the list marked for terrorism and terrorist action, there is a great burden on the government. The government then tells us two things: that it does not want to be effective and that it is not committed to fighting terrorism, respected gentlemen, so I interpret it, and then it tells us one more thing, that the government is running away from what is strengthening control mechanisms. When I do not accept this amendment through this approach, I am bound by the situation in which our Assembly, the Honored President, has not come here for months to answer the questions of the MPs on the last Thursday of the month, that it will probably not happen, the respected President Gojkovic, that neither next Thursday Mr. Vukic comes here, which is his obligation under the Rules of Procedure, by law, to answer questions... So the government is now running away from the control of its work, which is to be done by our National Assembly, but at the same time escapes control mechanisms compared to what is a list of terrorists or terrorist organisations. Dear gentlemen, I think that for the sake of efficiency, commitment, seriousness, the urgency of our state's fight against terrorism, it is important to adopt this amendment and that it is important that the government says - we adopt, because we want this efficiency, commitment, urgency, seriousness, respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24168	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24169	Thank you. I thank you for your careful reading of the text, but I would like to give a brief reply, which is why we do not think that the law should oblige the checklist to be carried out at least once a year, as written in that article. One, as already said in the discussion, at least once does not mean it will be once. On the contrary, if you read the law carefully, you will see that Article 4 defines the government's commitment, it is obliged to init and report on this every time it receives the UN document. We expect it to be a monthly dynamic. So there will be at least 10-12 innovations of the list, and based on what part the government is obliged to do. The second part of the list's innovation is based on information and requirements from domestic authorities. The third part is the innovation of the list that is obtained on the basis of bilateral requirements of individual governments in individual cases. That's the first one. Therefore, we expect that the innovation of the list will be multiple, from 10-12 times a year. This is just about fully innovating the entire list. Secondly, what is mentioned in the explanation, and these are other control mechanisms. So we're not talking about a list, we're talking about individuals and natural persons, legal persons, organizations on that list. They will be able, based on the administrative procedure defined in Article 7, which says – the administrative dispute can be initiated because of the wrong identity, shortened, quote, founding on the list. Every person on that list has the right to seek, to be considered and removed from that list. More importantly, the restrictions that are written in art. The 7th and 12th, too, limiting the real solution to the limitation of assets can be subject to testing, stripping and removing from the list. So we think the mechanisms are flexible enough. This is about innovating the entire list, where a lot of the list comes from outside our sources, so it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24170	Time, Minister. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24171	... An unwarranted burden on the government. So, we accept that and we're going to do it all the time on UN deliveries, and this part that's ours we're going to do in the administrative procedure of that frequency that is necessary to protect the rights of all, and those on the list, and those not on the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24172	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. There is no basis for replication. Read Article 104. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Don't yell. Don't gesture. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Minister Vujovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I believe that right now a member of 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which, as you have declared, the Honored Presidents, define the right of one MP to use the replica. This member, honourable MPs, National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic, has been defined as one MP in case in a dialogue with another MP or with a representative of the Government, and today it is Mr Vujovic, that this MP has the right to an additional two minutes of explanation of his position if it is estimated that the minister or other MP did not properly interpret or in the right way, because we did not measure whether something good was absolute, interpreted what was the statement. Mr. Zivkovic, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, announced his position, an argument for our amendment to Article 3. Minister Vujovic replied, by the understanding of Mr Zivkovic and by my understanding, Mr Vujovic partly misrepresented something Mr Zivkovic said. I think it is obvious, gentlemen, that Mr. Zivkovic is now on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have the right to replicate, the Honorable President. The right to replica is a focus towards dialogue, to try to reach a solution by best argument. Mr Vujovic announced the will to come to a solution. He's accepted one of our amendments, and it seems to me there's a chance of accepting another. Let's secure that kind of dialogue, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24174	Thank you, but we can't do that kind of dialogue through a replica. Simply, the Rules of Procedure are very strict, very inflexible, there's nothing I can do about it. But as you have said in your understanding, then it is my right by the Rules of Procedure to have my own understanding, which is slightly strengthened in Article 104, the president, i.e. the chairman, is listed. And there was no basis here, especially what you say in one part, but the minister listened to all the discussions and answered in general, without the name, last name, no offense, without having any sex with someone, but stated the government's position why he defended a certain government opinion that you were told. So attitude 3 is because when lawyers read one norm, they connect all attitudes, and not just pull out what fits a part of the member. So no injured Rules of Procedure, but here you are, we will vote on that, and please attend the vote. So far, there's been zero votes. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: What does it matter? ) Please allow me, as chairman, to hold a session, and that is my right, not discreetly, but according to the Rules of Procedure. So, are you asking MP Pavicevic to vote? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: The Honored Chairman requests that the vote be voted and I will attend the vote. I thank you. I thank you for this first part of the sentence, this is not an obligation but my call, because I noticed that zero votes have injuries to the Rules of Procedure, which are required to vote here. I just want to use my right to inform you of the results of the vote. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24175	Thank you. I use the time of authorised representatives of the DS parliamentary group to question the minister on the clarification of the administrative procedure. A moment ago, in response to the MPs, the minister said the person designated on the list could initiate the administrative procedure. How? How's he gonna start the administrative procedure? Do you, as finance minister, give the solution that it's marked as a face for terrorism, is subject to any other sublegal act that we don't have any information about here today, because it doesn't say it in the law. If anyone, here is Petrovic Petar, pays the tax neatly, there is no problem with the financial police, owns the property, owns movable property, substantial, medium, whatever you want, make it worth two million euros. He's not a member... I ask the People's MPs not to earn it, unless they want to talk to the pitch. I can, because we're trained in dialogue to be considered proscration, and to show gestures and tossing. If anyone thinks showing proscration will silence anyone...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24176	MPs, you know very well that you can't play my part right now...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24177	I, unfortunately, must play your part, since you do not warn the MPs that they cannot speak to fellow Members of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24178	But don't play my part, somebody take the Rules of Procedure, and warn. I don't explain the amendment either.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24179	I explain the amendment, and I will continue to explain with hope that you will warn the MPs not to use prosaclysms to silence fellow MPs. So, if Petrovic Petar has movable and immovable property, I don't mean the presence of MP Petar Petrovic and that's not the reason for the replica. I think best of all of the people present to Peter Petrovic. So, if he has movable and immovable assets, he is paying taxes neatly, the finance ministry has some source of information that he is funding terrorism or that he has knowledge of terrorism, then the ministry will issue a solution that Petrovic Petra will inform, and without the basis that is the source of the information, that he is put on the list of designated persons for terrorism. Then Petrovic Petar will launch an administrative dispute. That's not what the law says. It's an important thing for details or to tell me if it's going to happen this way, or if there's going to be a sublegal act that we don't have information about right now, because it's a question of how much administrative procedure that needs to be agreed on, so much so that it wouldn't happen that someone is simply suing you for abuse of a position, because you're taking on yourself the powers that you're not given under the law that you apply in putting a person on a list of married people for terrorism. It is a serious problem if it remains and any doubt about the procedure, because it is the only instrument that, under this law, refers to human rights of citizens not to be harassed by the executive authority, the state administration or anyone in the position of power, not to be subject to will, not to revenge. It is the only instrument that distinguishes such a law from a law that can create a purely vengeful society among groups of influential people, instead of a society in which there is a rule of law. There are no other instruments in the whole of the law except for the administrative procedure that enables it. This does not mean that we are protected without any other mechanism of working other services, but we are a society and a state that has difficulties with voluntary submission under the legal provisions of the service, which give you information that these persons are placed on the list of persons designated for terrorism. So, you have a double problem of service, authorities and organisations, except for foreign countries that, through diplomatic channels, provide information on who to be on the list of persons designated for terrorism, unfortunately, I have to exclude them because we do not have the authority to control their organs, but it must be quite clear and unequivocal in which way this only mechanism ensures that this law does not extend the mood of a vengeful society, but will be an addition and an additional stone in the mosaic of the rule of law, which I hope we are building together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24180	The word has Minister Vujovic, a replica. It's been told several times by the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24181	It's obviously a question of what the law says and how to interpret what the law says. I can tell you the interpretation we have. These are the parts that we take from the international formulations of international laws, the parts that we carry out and the parts that have to fit into our existing legal system. If there are any dilemmas we've seen, we've seen and we can open up a debate and talk about it all. I hear your basic dilemma not to get the wrong application of the law. I think the intention of all of us to serve this law is to identify marked persons in a way that will be in line with our own and international norms, in this area, and to ensure two-stageness in this process. One solution is to put it on the list, and there are three channels on that list. There's a list that we get from international organizations through the United Nations, and there's our duty. The government has to put all these faces on the list. That's where we accept the standards that apply in internationally recognised standards. We can talk about this, but I don't think this law predicts that we dispute it in any way. The second, the channel you are talking about, is defined by Article 5, which says - the government, based on reasonable assurance, is based on a proposal for an act and a Article 2 on a member's decision on the proposal for an act put on the list and then says - delivers a solution to the person put on the list. The person on the list is still not doing anything. It had the right to challenge that solution in the administrative dispute and to say - that is not the identity of the individual company, the identity of the group, the organisation, etc. And another thing to say: that is not my property; that is not my property. Everything you put on this list has no right to do. How effective is this administrative dispute, it's not for us to judge under this law now, is it? Therefore, we can have a special discussion about this and then only after that in article 10 is the solution... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24182	Time, Minister, you've gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24183	... on the resolution of assets. So it's a two-step process. Before a solution comes to mind, there must be a solution that will be challenged or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24184	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Veroljub Arsic, so I will return to you Gordana, you have your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I hope you will allow me the same rights as my colleague, Comic, who did not discuss the amendment submitted, but the entire member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24186	I won't, because I'm gonna have to warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24187	All right. So, the proposing amendments to Article 3. The bill says that at least twice a year, the RS government determines the list, i.e. justification. When a man listens to them and doesn't know what the law says, he'd probably gain confidence that the applicant of the amendment is absolutely right. But we, as the chairman said, often use only one part of the law here to make a political story, because if you read the previous position of the same member, which is to change and supplement the act, which determines the list of designated persons, it is immediately after the knowledge of the existence of facts of importance for its changes. So, right now. It's a big difference from what we're talking about right now. Also when it comes to the justification of putting it on the list, we're a legal state. The government has executive powers and one of our constitutionally designed mechanisms is judicial protection. A solution to be placed on the list and a list shall be published in the “Official Messenger”. It is a public document, and all other state bodies, based on public documents, published in the "Official Messenger", including those found on the list, find out that they are on the list. He can send an individual act afterwards. Third thing, he doesn't decide who's gonna be on the list. He does so on the basis of a proposal from the UN, our state authorities or on a reasoned proposal from another country. For this second part, when it comes to our state authorities, it deals with competent intelligence agencies and in order to get under the control of the competent state agency, you have to by our law, not some Martian, to have a court order. So, all rights, all rights of citizens, and even whether they will be subject to the work of a service, determines who – the court, according to our Constitution, is an independent and absolutely independent and independent branch of government. When we start talking about something, let's look at the whole of the legislation, as one colleague went out in the debate in principle and said – and why not financial institutions? Because we have another law called the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. He refers to financial institutions. This applies to natural and legal persons and citizens. We're not going to be making parallel laws, because when we're making parallel laws, if they're the opposite of each other, then we have a problem that can't be solved by the Constitutional Court, but still has to be solved by the Assembly. Therefore, parallel legislation should not be made, and in this case, what kind of legislation has been written and proposed to the National Assembly in addition to these amendments that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted and the competent Financial Committee has adopted, we define our legislation as one continent where the laws are harmonised and exactly complement each other and determine that the state authorities will, in certain cases, act. I guess that's our goal. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24188	I think Gordana Komic is next. (Gordana Comic, from the post: I am as an authorised representative. ) I am told that Gordana Komic has the right to reply. Am I right or am I wrong or by amendment? You, Mr. Pavicevic? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I have the right to reply to Mr Arsic's presentation after commenting on my amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and chairing today's session, Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, are two things I want to say in the replica now to Mr Arsic, and I think we are in a kind of squabble around this amendment because there are certain arguments on the one hand, but it is my judgment that our argument should weigh here, Mr Vujovic. Why? Mr. Arsic, for example, here identifies the content of what Article 3rd and Article 3. It's a bill of law. To remind the People's Messengers. In Article 3(3), the amendments and additions to the act establishing the list of designated persons shall be carried out immediately after knowledge of the existence of facts of importance for its changes. But, dear gentlemen, Mr Arsenovic is also heard by Mr Arsic, in Section 4, he writes – that the government is obliged to consider the justification for putting it on the list. So, it's a very different thing than what it says in point 3. And we only suggest that the government should show one will, a focus on efficiency, urgency, seriousness and commitment in the fight against terrorism by saying – the government is able to look twice a year at the justification of putting on a list of persons or organisations who are seriously suspected of being terrorist or to finance terrorism, respected gentlemen. What's this about? About fighting the world's greatest threat. It must not happen that the Government tells us that it does not have the possibility to consider twice a year the justifications of putting it on the list. We're here to help the government. Please accept this amendment. Thank you. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24190	Marianne Risticevic, you wanted a replica. And he signed up for the replica before you. Mr. Risticevic, you want a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24191	I'm not on the line. I told you I'm after the amendment. I wait patiently for them to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24192	Then he has the advantage of Mr. Arsic. Here you go, Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24193	It would be all right if the applicants of the amendment said they had read the Security Service Control Act, a law regulating their work, and not just control, so they would know that they would first have to ask the prosecution to go, and the prosecution to order the court to approve. This would look like this, to explain to you, that twice, at least twice a year, a person would be subject to the work of competent state authorities and intelligence services or as popular as it is said – to place it on the line. Then we will have the resources that the state has, which cost, to use just to check something multiple times, and risk some of the much more important things to promote these competent state authorities and question the security of our country. Or, to increase the number of employees in these competent state authorities, but then colleagues in the former regime will attack us as we become a police state. The state has its resources, they are precisely determined in accordance with its interests, the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their security and do not give them any more obligations because in this way we will increase the costs of the service and for those persons subject to this list to endanger their civil rights. Like I said in the previous part...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24194	Time, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24195	I'm done. ... The Republic of Serbia should have laws that are mutually agreed, exactly to be complemented in the part where it is necessary, in order to have human rights and the security of the state at that level as our citizens expect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24196	Thank you. Are you sure you want a replica? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. I don't think I really see any reason for the replica anymore. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I think it is important, Mr Arsic, to accept amendments and arguments. Please, this way, I claim that through... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: This is a good way, Mr Arsic, this is a debate. ) There is a debate, but the way the debate is conducted through the replica is not going to come up with a solution, I'm telling you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I think Minister Vujovic and dilemma. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. According to the amendment, the word is Mr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24197	I'm not in a dilemma. I'd be in a dilemma if it was the only channel. Since an individual review of the basis of the list exists as a possibility at any time and an urgent review of these requirements is required in the administrative dispute, I think there is no reason to question and this possibility allows the Government to reconsider the entire list more often than once a year, if there is a need for this. I don't think anyone's rights will really be compromised.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24198	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24199	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting for an amendment with almost the same arguments as the last time. I think that when it writes -- at least once a year, that doesn't mean that the government doesn't have the right to double-check its list every year, especially because it's forbidden to have property. So if the citizen, whom they have named here as Petar Petrovic, has a property of 2m euros, that is why, at least to me and most citizens, it is becoming suspicious. So either he was involved in terrorism, or he was involved in politics between 2000 and 2012. Maybe he was close to the regime, maybe he wasn't a terrorist. He may otherwise have terrorized the citizens, but this is exclusively about those who are classical terrorists, those whom the UN or our organs have put on the list because of the terrorist, classical terrorism. It is enough for the government to check it once a year, and more than once if it has wronged a citizen who is named here as Petar Petrovic. It bothers me personally that whenever we start questioning and putting on a list, or we start talking about an asset investigation, this amendment is about freezing terrorist property, checking, etc., immediately alerting the party of the former regime, as if we're going to check their assets, which I stand for. So it's about property, so the citizens know, classic terrorists and I suggest they control themselves at least once a year. It's not supposed to be that mild to terrorists, so we either put them on the list any minute now or we don't put them on the list and check them out. Because if someone is put on the terrorist list, the UN has asked for the same because our authorities have rightly established that such a person is involved in terrorism. I don't think Peter Petrovic, as indicated here, can possibly have two million euros legally, that otherwise, perhaps not with this amendment, perhaps not with this law, should check his property. Maybe it's not about Peter Petrovic at all, maybe it's about some president of a municipality dealing with political economic terrorism, and, say, as a student, he acquired a 500,000-euro asset in Vienna, in the form of properties to be frozen there by someone abroad, some other service, not ours. It may be the president of the Indji municipality, which acquired more than 2m euros worth of property for a very short period of time. Maybe it's not a classic terrorist, and that's why I understand the excitement of the former regime's party whenever some property is mentioned and an examination of the assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24200	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24201	Thank you. I use the time of authorized representatives of the parliamentary group, enjoying the political folklore of mocking human rights and the uglyness of people, as it is also considered to be funny and agreeable to debate. But everyone talks about themselves as soon as they say anything. So, Minister, the amendment that we're talking about is that once a year, the government itself is at least checking out the justification for putting a person on the list. This is in itself the softest form of protection, i.e. making a commitment before the executive bodies for the protection of elemental human rights, but not sufficiently efficient. When we explain your answer in this way, the individual solution that the person receives is the same as the government's decision to consider once a year the justification of the entire list. A person who has been placed with an administrative solution contests the justification to place his name or legal person whose representative is designated for terrorism on the list. That administrative dispute, so well-conceived, should be the only guarantee. We heard here in the debate, quite correctly, that anyone involved in the collection of information about a person who should be justifiably placed on a list marked for terrorism, who deals with security checks, who deals with the information of the agencies involved, that they can't do it without the court's decision. Yesterday in this hall, we had information that one agency was doing it without the court's decision. If I ask you whether we have full assurance of the human rights system, I don't ask that because I think the law in general is bad, I don't ask that because I have any personal attitude towards anyone, I ask that because yesterday in this assembly one of the agencies without a court decision and past the law worked political parties, and it didn't base it on it. (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: It is not true. ) National MP Arsic throws – not true. I ask you, Chairman, either to intervene and do your job, or to let me explain to everyone who intends to obtain a report from the Defense Committee and the roles of the agency that violated the regulations. (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: What does the Defence Committee have to do with it? ) It's no problem, I'm available to you for all types of pitching, if the chairman doesn't want to do his job. The basic reason why I ask about the administrative procedure is precisely because, not only in Serbia, there is a tendency to position power, intelligence services, informative agencies of various levels, access to information, have a tendency not to be controlled. It has nothing to do with Serbia. Serbia is a wonderful example of how it is prone to really powerful agencies in really powerful countries. This is the key reason why the government needs at least once a year to consider the justification of the list. If we do not understand that this administrative procedure, therefore administrative dispute, is the only thing that people will have, whether in accordance with all regulations or will, as we saw an illustrative example yesterday, put on the list, the government will then, after the end of the administrative dispute, if, without reason, a person who has been put on the list has been given the solution that it was unfairly placed to have a problem, whether there is an administrative dispute with the request for compensation, whether there is a litigation dispute, whether or not someone is resigning, whether there was an intention to have a person who was unjustly placed on the list designated for terrorism, according to the decisions of the authorities in our country, to do so to him. It's not the administrative dispute you're having as a person who's being listed for terrorism in the morning job, taking out your ID card. It's not a administrative dispute that happens within 24 hours. If it's an innocent man, no matter who made a mistake, the administrative dispute between you, as you've explained to me, that there will be no compliance with the law, does not resolve and is not a strong enough mechanism to really protect human rights. If I share that view with you, it does not mean that anyone in Serbia intends to abuse, but I see that the space for abuse is clearly created. Our joint task is to disable any space for abuse. The administrative dispute that one will bring is too weak, like a mechanism, to allow anyone who is inclined to commit abuse of their powers, or even to do wrong. What happens to the hell he's been given because he's been put on a list marked for terrorism? The example I mentioned is illustrative, not related to terrorism, although it is presented, but it is an example of reality. I think it is good to have a dialogue on what dialogue should be conducted in this Assembly, on how individual provisions, individual solutions in the law, will produce consequences for a single human being in Serbia. How will we carry out the responsibility of those who apply, if misused, if with insufficient knowledge, if out of negligence, out of neglect, irresponsible? It's all inadmissible for executive power if it's written in other regulations. What about that minister and that government that happens with such a heavy slip, with or without her intention? The amendment that says -- let's make the government think twice, is it strong enough? I'm not sure. It is enough for me to introduce this soft mechanism that the government must consider the vindication of the person who put it. So as soon as you put in such a provision, you know it's a delicate process. You know that this is a question of the process that arises because the organisations dealing with human rights have been silenced, you know that you must at least send it as a message in the law and that is an international provision. Here with you, Minister, I completely agree that the government has to check how she put together a list of criminals. Unfortunately, by dealing with terrorism at the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, making reports on terrorism, especially in the OSCE region of Central Asia, I have a series of examples of how the same name is put on and removed from the list of persons designated for terrorism, depending on how power centres are moved to decide whether or not someone is a terrorist. These are serious things, just as much as any human right. That's the only reason why I don't think we need to save time to give our government a clear message that we understand what kind of problem may arise because of the provision that at least once a year they will consider the justification of the person and what kind of force the administrative dispute actually has. I am commenting on this amendment with the hope that there will be no administrative dispute and that the list of terrorists will be fully established. Why do I have such hope? Because it's a legal state, it's a rule of law, I want it to happen. But it's not because it's written in paper, it's that we exchange all our views on what needs to exist in reality so it's not really what we want in the application of this law, and it's a completely justified list of persons marked for terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24202	Mrs. Komic, just to inform you that part of your exposure time, since you've wasted your time, has been denied by the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24203	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, since it was used in the debate on this amendment, to comment on something that was happening yesterday, I know it wasn't happening in this room, but it was happening in the VBA, in the rooms, as a member of the Security Control Committee, to say that what was said here was absolutely untrue and incorrect. I do not want to let, as a member of this committee, be false and disrupt the reputation of the VBA and the Serbian Army and that this debate is used to spin something that was done yesterday. It is absolutely incorrect that in one case, the VBA acted illegally and without the court's decision listened to Serbian citizens. This has not been established by the Security Control Committee, in the surveillance carried out in the previous two days. It was not established because it was impossible to determine because it had not happened. A member of the Democratic Party Committee Dragan Sutanovac, who is not present here now, can only confirm my every word. There's no way he's saying anything else. All that was found was that a telegram was sent from Novi Sad to Belgrade, which was shown here in the Assembly by Manchester. Telegram, not listening to citizens, not tracking, not working within some parties, etc. Telegram. On this basis, the inspector-general has been appointed, tasked with establishing in the next 15 days the legality of the conduct in that case and nothing else has been established. It also says in the Committee's decision that the authenticity of the document has been established, nothing else. We have to understand, right now in this little hall, what we're passing this law, in the discussion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement Committee, is also commended. It was said there by MEPs that we are one of the fastest responders and the best and this bill is praised. We need to figure out one more thing. Of course we will defend human rights, make a civil state, but the Islamic state is a huge danger to humanity and to us, we are very close to them. Something happened the day before yesterday in Tunisia. Doesn't mean he can't stay with us the day after tomorrow. Some people here take it so seriously. We have to protect ourselves from that. We must work together in the world with all those who fight against this evil, among other things, and this law. The government should only be commended by the Minister for the text of this law, which is excellent. He is also praised by those who understand it abroad and who we co-operate with. That list that's being discussed will always be, in 99% of the cases, made based on international co-operation, not on internal work. I'm talking about data collection. Let's not simplify and use everything for politicization. When something was good, when I was an opposition, if anything was good, although it was rarely good between 2008 and 2012, I always supported it. Politics, politicization, story, story-making, it won't do anyone any good just to confuse our citizens. This is a good thing, we need to support it and I repeat again, please, the Serbian Army and the VBA are one of the most important institutions in the state of Serbia, they have the support of Serbian citizens. The VBA has never been suspected of anything he did and what we've established through surveillance, has never been illegal, and don't let anyone here say it. Read well that decision and the opposition had representatives there, their board members who were constructively working with all of us together and Mr. Bogdanović and Mr. Sutanovac and know that what I said is true. Everything else is false and I pray that you do not say it here one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24204	On what basis, Mr. Pavicevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24205	Pursuant to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it's a right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24206	Right to the replica? Whose?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24207	Mr. Shormaz. Mr. Shormaz commented on the amendment submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I. I've expanded the subject a little bit, and I find that part of it was inadequately interpreted by our argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24208	Mr. Pavicevic, I am Mr. Shormaz, I must admit, for the simple reason I had the feeling, the need for him to explain the alleged irregular work of the VBA that is not even on the agenda. I let him go in that sense, I tolerated him. I figured you might be looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because mostly his exposure was actually on the subject. But now the replica of what Mr. Shormaz put out, I don't think it really makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24209	But Mr. Shormaz did not only comment on yesterday's session of the Security Control Committee, but also on the amendment submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24210	Please, we're not going to develop now, so I'm not sure we're going to contribute anything to this law as soon as we start going out of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24211	I think there's still more reason to argue about accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24212	Please, Mr. Pavicevic, I don't think there's any point in us developing that topic anymore. Mr. Jovanovic, by amendment? The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24213	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, there is obviously one problem here that is not affirmed in the right way, and it is present in the context of the analysis of the amendment. In any event, no doubt should be given to the well-intentioned nature of the proposings of this amendment to remove the adverse consequences that would relate to the abuse of the application of qualifications, so-called qualifications. a legitimate belief, i.e. a certain degree of intelligence or way of understanding, putting a person on a list that is referred to as terrorism. But we have one problem here, which implies that we compromise the right to domestic legislation, and obviously that's not well understood. What's this about? We are under the obligation that we have accepted international documents to automatically put the persons on the list, by automation, because we have assumed this obligation by conventions and resolutions. This obligation arises from what is imposed as a single type of requirement, i.e. by the relevant institutions of the international community. If those persons are qualified to be on the list of potential terrorists to the international community, then there is absolutely no more maneuvering in the right sense of saying whether we should, should not, need or do not need to be excluded, we must. If we have to, then it's something that means getting out of the context of what we could do with domestic legislation. We're simply forced to fulfill our obligation. If this is properly accepted, it is simply impossible to question anything that implies meeting the obligations under the signed resolutions and conventions with the international community. That is the problem, although I am as likely as most of the MPs here to avoid even the slightest trace of suspicion of abuse that may exist in the sense of setting up what Pera Petrovic or Peter Petrovic have been symbolically said here on the list of potential terrorists. Of course, that justified belief remains as some qualification that has its abstraction, which is rather flat-rate, but given this reason that I pointed out, however, legal mechanisms and legal opportunities are limited in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24214	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, professor Dr Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment to be in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr Blagoje Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honored guests, MPs, respected citizens, we've been listening for the last half hour, and we've also heard about the VBA report. My personal position is that I trust Sasha Jankovic, because to remind you it was her story about whether the SNS was listening to the SRS. It's a legitimate attitude. You can listen to that, but we can go back to this law. Thus, Article 5 speaks of the identification of a person on a proposal from the competent national authority, and all in relation to limiting the availability of assets in order to prevent terrorism. Article 5 says that the ministry responsible for internal affairs or for the authority responsible for security and intelligence affairs or the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, in the follow-up text of the Administration, submits a written and reasoned proposal to the government for the identification of a person. In addition to the proposal for an act referred to in Article 1, information on the person is proposed – and we add - as well as facts that indicate the justification for believing that he is the face of a terrorist, that he is financing terrorism, that he is involved in the activities of a terrorist group or in carrying out a terrorist act on property that may be subject to a restriction of availability, as well as the opinion of other competent authorities in Article 1(1). For the simple reason that we believe that in his solution, the Proposer predicted that only the data on the persons indicating the justification of his conviction was provided in the proposal. Although we believe that this does not provide a sufficient degree of legal certainty, especially when it comes to the sensitivity of the matter that should be regulated by this law, and we believe that certain facts need to be attached in order to have the complete picture and to be able to make the right decision. That's what I thank you for accepting the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24216	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, professor Dr Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment to be in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 7 shall process the proceedings before the court. In his first position, he says that the solution that marked the person placed on the list of marked persons is finally and against him a marked face can trigger a administrative dispute. The reasons are then cited for which conditions are met so that the person can initiate a dispute, an administrative dispute. Point 1 states that it is a matter of misdetermining the identity of the person and of point 2 of the basicity of putting on the list of identified persons. We've seen this logical mistake. That's what we've been trying to make amends to the motionor's solution. In fact, the dispute cannot be conducted because of the founding of a certain act or action is already being conducted because the person who is initiating the dispute considers that in a specific case there was no basis for the adoption of a specific act or for the taking of a particular action, in particular for placing on the list of the designated person. I think it's a good thing the government accepted this amendment, because otherwise there would be confusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24218	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24219	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I was impressed by the principle debate that the minister would accept this amendment since he adds to Article 8 the practical obligation of financial institutions, banks, insurance companies to find persons on these lists simply not to sign the contract. That was the essence of our amendment. He was rejected on the grounds that banks, in this case banks and insurance companies and other financial institutions, fall under other legal and natural persons spoken of by some other parts of this member of the law. We think it is a better solution to accept this amendment, to add this position, such as, I do not know the position of the 5th of this law, that is, attitude 6 speaks of certain concrete things that APR, courts and notaries should do in case they encounter in their work persons on this list, so we think that it is better to define clearly the obligations of banks, insurance companies and other financial organisations, rather than that they fall under the term "legal and physical person". Little is it, I think, unseriously legal and physical person to classify banks, insurance companies, which have very intense financial work, and the essence of this law is to prevent terrorist financing, so we think it's better that this amendment is accepted. It's too much of a general legal and physical person, that norm the government has called upon, refusing to accept our amendment. We still feel that our solution is better and that it would allow for more responsible work and a better fight against terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24220	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24221	The essence of the amendment is fully acceptable, but the interpretation of our working group was that first "legal and natural persons" refer to all legal and natural persons, including banks and other non-bank financial institutions. Another comment that has already been made here today is that they are subject to the Anti-money Laundering Act and oppose terrorist financing and they are already applying the provisions of these laws. Therefore, they felt that we would only burden the text of this article, so as not to expand the essence. Some interpretations include legal or natural persons, including financial organisations, banking and not banking financial organisations, etc. So you don't reject the essence. The essence of the amendment is totally acceptable, they just thought the text was already reflecting, that's the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24222	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24223	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, dear ministers, I think I will vote in favour of this amendment since the amendment's proposer most likely has drawn this amendment from some of the experiences that are related to the "Vojvodine Development Bank". So there were accounts opened to very suspicious persons, persons who were on the list of various international organisations. It's about the big drug dealers who bought properties in Vojvodina. In order to transfer capital, they had to open accounts. In order to do it undetected, they had to be in contact with the government. In order to do so in connection with power, they had to open an account where she had sent them, it was “Vojvodine Development Bank”. Since huge money has disappeared there, and since there has been a huge transfer of capital related to what is said to be drug trafficking and other types of illegal activities from which terrorism can be financed either domestically or internationally, I think the proposer has drawn this amendment out of his own experience. I think other MPs should also be seen, whether the government or the opposition, in which case they see everything, not only being funded by illegal activities, but through these illegal activities, the huge social capital that was ours, and then becoming theirs, is being translated into the pockets of individuals, and that there was an obvious strain of politics and crime, or those who were supposed to suppress, or where the state under their leadership was meant to suppress crime, crime has contained the state. Given that they have practical experience in this, I will certainly vote in favour of this amendment to prevent the activities that took place during the rule of the former regime, above all I mean the "Vojvodina Development Bank". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24224	The word is Marko Djurisic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24225	It's time for the president of the parliamentary group. I mean, let me say it again. So, the legal and physical person is a pretty broad term and here in this article are talking about some of the actions to be taken when doing the job, but they are then said again in Article 6 of the particularly isolated organization responsible for keeping the register of business facilities, associations, duties, foundations, courts, public notebooks, are precisely prescribing some of the things and activities that organizations here need to do. We think it is better to define exactly what the obligations of the banks of insurance companies and other financial organisations are in case they come across in their work on the client on this list. We think it is precise and would not burden the law, but well, we believe, above all, the reason for the refusal of this amendment is that the banks are under the form of "legal and physical persons" inadequate. As for our experience in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime, they are well known to Serbian citizens. The state of Serbia has completed co-operation with The Hague tribunal during our government. At the time, our country discovered a large network of drug trafficking, a trade that measured hundreds of million euros, tons of cocaine, marked those responsible for it and gained great reputation in an international action. The government's results in the fight against narcotics are that the biggest drug dealer has been designated by the prime minister for three months for some petty tax offense, and now he's a free citizen and travels out of this country and I don't know if he's in the business of dealing again, whether he's dealing with drug trafficking, as our prime minister and police minister said, or whether he's dealing with some other affairs that he's been in custody for the past few months. So, don't compare, I mean, feel free to compare the results of your work against terrorism and organised crime and the results of our work, because we're proud of these results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24226	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24227	What's he ashamed of? Organized crime, Mr. Miskovic, "Vojvodine Development Bank", do you want me to count on it further? It's not just narcotics organized crime. Shall we talk about "Agrobank"? What you had as an achievement was for the U.S. Intelligence Service, which gave you information where you couldn't get away anymore, but to do it by law. The amendment - and other financial institutions, has anyone read the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism? It's nobody. You brought it. How did you pass a law you didn't read? Now you want in this law to put something that's already solved to another one in the same plane. Here I am ready, and when it comes to fighting narcotics, let's measure everything. Let's measure how much has been discovered, how many persons are therefore suspected, at which stage are the court proceedings. We'll always be there for that. You can pay attention to your merits, only if I were you, I would be silent, absolutely so, because during the government of Boris Tadic, DS, the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, the state was a hostage in the hands of several people who were not involved in politics, who did not go to elections. Are we going to talk about the Foreign Exchange Act, how it was written when it was least supposed to be brought in? How did billions of euros from Serbia end up in offshore companies? Are those achievements that someone's proud of? I wouldn't be proud of it again, how the money was drawn from Serbia, how it was laundered, how we gave the legal basis for someone to do harm to the state without answering. Now here under an excuse for forgetting that he voted for one law, the MP criticises the work of this government. He forgot he passed one of those laws. We're going to continue our fight against narcotics, because it's the greatest evil, against terrorism, it's on a global scale of evil. Organized crime has ruined Serbia by 2012, and tycoon ties with the state have ruined it and impoverished the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I will always, not forget, but always remind you, when Mr. Miskovic said - if the state makes me pay the tax I have to pay, I will close my company and throw the workers out on the streets. Then Mirko Cvetkovic, as prime minister, went to Miroslav Miskovic on his feet. What about those other people who pay taxes? What is he privileged to do? If that's your fight against organized crime, it's an honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24228	Replica has MP Marko Djurisic, but I ask that we return to the agenda after all. I'm sorry, I'll just say two sentences, so you don't have time. We are today discussing a bill on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism. I'm asking you now to leave all this drug-related stuff behind. That's why I'm asking you to go back to the agenda. You have the right to a replica, Mr. Djurishic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24229	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe you agree that my statement regarding the amendment was in no way out of the question. Some others went off topic, began to speak not of terrorism, but of organized crime, and of course I had the need to answer, as I now need to answer a colleague who was speaking some lies. I didn't forget I voted for some law. I remember very well that I voted for the law, why I voted for it and why this law is good for Serbia. I talked about it, about the results of the fight against terrorism, against organised crime and against corruption, and I talked about concrete results. The gentleman here was talking about some things that don't have any court epilogues. After two and a half years, there is no judicial epilogue for any of the things previously referred to as the fault of the regime until 2012. Then taxes, sir, are paid in Serbia. There were no taxpayers who existed today. No debt reprogrammes have been made since 2013, in 2013 and 2012, so when debt is made in those two years, then something is charged in 2014, then it is said – it is charged double. It's not charged double, it's charged, it can't be multiplied. When you multiply zero by something, you always have the result of zero. Why are taxes not charged to tycoons in Serbia in 2012 and 2013? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24230	Time. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24231	Now, I've been listening to everything in my life, I've seen everything in my life, Mr. Chairman, but what bothers me is that someone is insulting my intelligence, that a fellow MP comes out and says, "We've been charging taxes." If he wants to, he will be subject to the work of the Finance Committee and the control of budget spending and the work of the tax administration, so he will be taxed by a name and a last name whose solutions are hidden in drawers during the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, who also performed the job of the finance minister. About these taxes, as they were charged, you were not allowed to go to Miskovic, and even less to Milan Bek, not even to approach them. We now charge the taxes that came during this government, but the taxes that were hidden during the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic are also charged. The gentleman forgot that the 2014 tax charge was 30% higher than in 2011 and almost 40% in 2014. Well, we don't have an increase in traffic, but we have better control and tax collection, because some were privileged not to pay the state their obligations. You made us, because of that, when we discovered what tax debtors were, because you couldn't even control them, we had to reprogram the tax obligations that occurred during the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. These are the results of this government. Don't ask your merits to be credited to the SNS. We have ours, you have yours. You guys get your dicks together. I'd be ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24232	Time. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24233	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I answered the floor, but Mr. Arsic said much of it in his two previous discussions in relation to what I thought to say. So this is about a list of persons who are being put under certain control because of terrorist activity and on a certain list. I was willing to support as an MP, since I was not present here when the Money Laundering Act was passed, which Mr. Arsic reminded me, some of them were, I was not, therefore, willing to support this amendment and I will, by the very moment of voting, think about whether it might be burning that in both laws there are such provisions and in the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and in this law. So terrorism has more species. There is economic terrorism that was carried out through privatisation, where terrorists are citizens because everything that was theirs became property of several families, where one predatory privatisation was carried out. In this regard, I had the remark that there was such a kind of terrorism and had the understanding for the promoter that he wanted to control money through banks, and by controlling money, he controlled the financing of possible terrorism on the territory of this country, and since our banks, such as the ‘Vojvodine Development Bank’, were also linked to international payment traffic, to prevent the financing of terrorism and beyond the borders of this country. I've talked about it and cited some examples, and I'm not giving up that there's some money being trafficked somewhere, as it's said somewhere in Vojvodina -- our money, our blackest money, from drug trafficking through certain banks, and that kind of money could have been used to fund terrorism. The man who bought all these firms around Vojvodina apparently had some kind of support. He was not arrested during the rule of the former regime, but has now been arrested, as the other person was not even touched, which was listed here, nor touched during the former regime, but was brought in now. What kind of court epilogue will be, I as a MP don't want to influence it, but the fact is that all the activities that are financed by terrorism come from illegal affairs. I fear that economic terrorism, which was present in this country during this predatory, looting privatisation, has contributed to over 51 billion euros from this country, according to estimates of international organisations, for the period from 2000 to 2012. That's what I'm talking about. I wouldn't want that money to be used to fund any terrorism, especially terrorism directed against our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24234	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished guests from the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, Article 9 is related in principle to Article 8 and he says that in Article 9(1), paragraph 2, 4 and 6 after the word "public authority" the words "and banks, insurance companies and other financial organisations in the corresponding decline" are added. The amendment lays down the obligations of banks, insurance companies and other financial organisations to co-operate in the management process, means the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Rights, in connection with the designated person and his property. Although I have listened carefully to your argument, I don't think it's burnt, nothing will burden one or two words of the law, but it will explain it much more clearly and closely and be easier to apply. This is the country of Serbia, and here everything should be written, so sometimes it should repeat something a few times. It's not burnt, but your law will then be clearer and will not create any confusion with those who need to apply. It is one thing to mean, and the other to make it clear in a member of the obligation that these financial institutions must take care of these lists. Please, since it doesn't change the essence of the law, nor does it change the concept of how you thought it should look, to accept this amendment, because believe me, it will be much easier to apply. Just to comment on what was the subject of a discussion between counterpart Djurisic and counterpart Arsic. He's absolutely right, fellow Arsic. Tax charge from the time of the SNS is incomparably higher. The people of Nisha are dry proof of that. The tax has been increased from 50% to 500%. That didn't happen. Drains are being drained. The only problem is that it's 45% on an annual basis, but you'll probably hire Nis citizens to pay taxes to the state by opening up new jobs you promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24236	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I answered the amendment to say that I read it carefully, and I didn't understand the explanation. I didn't understand this about dry wood and tax collection. Apparently, the previous speaker thought that this amendment was bound by the broadcasting rights and the lack of money that followed those processes in which I was already speaking. So 400,000 jobs disappeared during the former regime and therefore lacked a certain level of public income, as people on the revenue side were transferred to expenditure. Instead of income, they became expenditure, and in that kind of obligation, which the state has and which cities they have, it is obvious that it is necessary to raise taxes somewhere. I didn't understand the draining of dry drenina. When dry drains are drained, the basic question is that we ask ourselves – who dried that wood, why is it dry? I'm afraid it's the responsibility of the previous regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24238	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24239	Let me explain to my fellow MP. So, the SNS, the current regime in the town of Nis, has been in power for three years. In the last three years, the SNS has managed to hire zero workers in the economy. The only thing she could do was hire 450 in the public sector. In contrast, between 2008 and 2012, around 5,000 people were employed in the real sector in Nis. That's the records. What I don't want to see as an ominous comment, but I'm very sorry that there's no employment in Nis, no matter what party he runs, because Nis is a city that has blocked public enterprises, which has blocked jury accounts of schools, a city that has been cut off by electricity for not paying public lighting. So, a city full of holes in the streets, and I want it to be the most beautiful city in the world. So it was just a comment, and the tax hike goes when income increases. You can't collect taxes up to 500 times if 50,000 people don't work in a city of 240 thousand people. It's absurd. That was my comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24240	Mr. Risticevic, replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It can also be a replica, and by amendment, you can subtract from the parliamentary group [[President: Make it a replica.]] My colleague and I can agree on everything, but he has to be a little self-critical. We can't hire how many they fired from 2000 to 2012. I've never seen such a miracle, that in three years anyone can go anywhere in the world, there's no such economy, no American, no Japanese, no Chinese, no Korean... There is no economy with such development that can employ as many as they have fired from 2000 to 2012. In Nis alone, he should say how much they fired, how many people were left out of work because of privatisation and poor economic policy. They can't do smart in two years, correct what the others did in 12 years. Thank you. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24243	I know, but I'm not going to let the job story go any further, because it's out of the question. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24244	Namely, we intervened in Article 10 on Section 3. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. In addition to the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets, Administration, Competent and Public Prosecutors, the Security and Intelligence Authority, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, etc., considered it necessary to finally add and say that these solutions were delivered to the National Bank, to business banks and to insurance companies or to other financial organisations. This amendment has regulated the adoption and delivery of a solution to limit the availability of a designated person's assets. In addition to that circle of entities, we believe that it is necessary to specify the National Bank, the business banks and insurance companies and other financial organisations, as well as other entities to which this solution must be delivered. A national bank as a central bank which has the power to pay an emergency payment and other entities as entities where the property of a designated person can be found and which may also have certain claims against a designated person. For example, a mortgage trustee based on a loan. The government has rejected this amendment, and I ask you once again to consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24245	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24246	We have proposed the addition of Article 11 which states that if, after receiving the report from the administration, it is thought of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Minister responsible for Finance Affairs finds that it is not a significant person or property subject to the restriction of availability, i.e. there are no conditions for restricting the availability of assets, he is obliged to notify the legal or natural person who has provided the notice that he can continue the activities he has suspended. We have also added Article 2 that the notice referred to in Article 1 is the minister responsible for the financial affairs also delivers to the Administration, which we think is necessary for the sake of complete information. The government has accepted this amendment and I thank you, but once again I ask the Ministers to consider our amendments to Articles 8 and 9, because I think they are meaningful, meaningful and will be useful to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24247	Thank you, Dr. Bradic. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Article 12 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending, accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24248	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and chairing today's session, Mr Bačić, respected Minister Vujovic and honored guests from the ministry, accepted our amendment, one of the five amendments we submitted to this bill, and that amendment was accepted despite saying one intolerant relationship between the president of the National Assembly today and opposition MPs and despite the respected gentlemen's humble relationship between the advanced majority here with the Serbian government. Despite all this, we managed to fix this bill and I see it this way. Winning by victory, I see we're all going to cut this poor government's mandate together soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24249	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I didn't understand anything. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24250	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, Article 15 speaks of the allowed use of part of the property and is foreseen through the four positions of this member that the person who is indicated to be limited to the availability of the property may, before the court, initiate the procedure to exclude the part of the property necessary for the basic cost of life and then list the costs that are possible. So it's said to be the costs of legal services provided. We have proposed adding the word "necessary legal services". You know, we think that legal services are quite a broad term, that under the legal services, various things can be subdued, and that they can be expensive, to say chargeable, and to practically abuse this possibility that exists within the law, it is to restrict the use of property for the purpose of terrorism. That is why we believe that the law should state that these are necessary legal services, and then the court should judge which ones are necessary or not. Because in an explanation of why our amendment is not accepted says that the court will appreciate the necessary costs, but we consider that without the term "necessary legal costs" in the law itself, the court cannot appreciate what is necessary and what is not, but the client says - these are my legal costs and put things there. The court will then find itself in a problem, i.e. it will not be able to assess, that it has a basis on which it will reject certain legal costs that a potential client delivers to the court, but will have to accept them all. It would be better if this amendment had been accepted. Also, on the second part of our amendment, the government did not look back in its refusal. In this respect, it is further stated that some of the fees for the availability, maintenance and storage of funds or other economic resources. We believe that this "other economic resources" is a completely undefined, broad term. We don't know what that means. In order for a client to rely on this legal standard, if he remains in the law, to draw out huge funds or all assets, thereby fully devising the law and provisions that speak of a restriction on the availability of property. We believe that these solutions that we have proposed are more precise, that they reduce the possibility of abuse, that they are in the spirit of the law, and that they will make it possible to fight the state against terrorism better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24251	Thank you. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinoic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24252	Article 17 refers to the abolition of the solution to limit the availability of the assets, and then the first position says, if the reasons for the decision to restrict the availability of the assets ceases to exist, the minister responsible for the financial affairs is obliged to abolish the solution in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure. We intervened on Section 2 where it is said – a solution that abolishs the solution to restricting the availability of property is delivered to the legal and physical person and then lists all those to whom this solution is delivered. We are in line with all of our remarks concerning previous members, concerning the NBS and regarding the bank's rules of procedure, we have just installed in this position of this member, where we have said that the agreements must be delivered to NBS, to business banks, to insurance companies or other financial organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24253	Thank you. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24254	This article shall prescribe penalties for those persons who, when performing their duties or activities, do not establish that there are jobs and other similar relations with... So these are penalties under this law, where MP Pavicevic and I are asking for a tightening of those penalties. I just said that we are for a more conservative approach to terrorism. It means with sharper sentences, with a sharper approach that should work both preventively and curatively. We ask that the fine provided for from 100,000 to three million be raised to be the lower level of fines of 500,000 dinars to three million dinars. This is an entirely rational proposal, because it is certain that the level of punishment affects the willingness of some people to enter any kind of crime, especially by doing or not by helping crime, especially terrorism, and should be punished as soon as possible. We've been given an explanation for the refusal of amendments that read... I think someone in the government was very inspiring about this law, first of all, that it's twice a year for the government, that it's a great effort, and now that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that when prescribing the range of fines, it's necessary to take into account the significant economic differences that exist between individual categories of taxpayers. That means the government runs social policy through this law. That someone who, by their actions or by failing to act, creates conditions to help terrorism or to carry out terrorist activities, should be punished in accordance with his economic capacity. If you run a social policy in Serbia, you have at least three million places where this can be done better, penalties under this law must not be part of the Serbian government's social policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24255	Thank you. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24256	I'm already on. I raised my hand, but you didn't see it. I want a word. I answered. I'm on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24257	Sign up. I don't have you in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24258	Give me a recommendation on what to do, since I'm involved, how to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24259	Pull out the card and insert it again and re-apply. Here you go. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24260	Obviously, the system is in big trouble and is becoming less and less relevant to its purpose, but it is being resolved and there is a democratic way to do so. The same is the objective of our amendment to Article 20, where we are also asking for the tightening of penalties provided for, and related to economic operators, associations, borrowings, public notaries' foundations, and so on and so on. Here the explanation is a little different. Here it is not social policy as to why the harsher penalties we offer are being rejected, but it is said – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the fine provided for in the amendment is not in accordance with the Law on Violations, i.e. the prescribed maximum penalty for the offence. It's a reason to change the Law of Infractions. If that's the real answer for refusing this amendment, change the Law of Infractions. It is like a story about the fact that the Rules of Procedure about the work of the congregation is wrong because it was brought by a previous congregation majority. Well, here, the majority of the congregation has been the same or similar for almost three years. She could have changed the government four times, let alone the Rules of Procedure on the work of this Parliament. Therefore, I think that criminal policy in Serbia must apply among other instruments and more severe penalties. Many crimes, many crimes would be less present in our lives if criminal policy were more severe. I don't think there's any doubt about it that we'd all easily agree just to take one serious argument, one serious proposal for it. That is why I urge you to accept the amendment and launch an initiative to amend the Law on Violences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24261	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24262	This amendment of ours is in line with our proposals on Articles 8 and 9, so I ask you once again to consider accepting our amendment until the start of the vote. It won't be burned, nothing will break or change the meaning of the proposed law, except it will explain it even double. I don't see that that's any big damage. I think the amendment should be accepted, because what is meant, and it does not say, in the country Serbia is very difficult to apply and implement. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24263	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24264	Article 23 provides for a time limit for the adoption of sublegal acts which should be accompanied by legal mechanisms for the implementation of this law. The bill proposes that the deadline be six months. By amendment to Article 23, we ask that the deadline be reduced to three months. We are convinced that in serious preparation of this law, and no doubt that it was serious, with a few shortcomings that we pointed out through the amendments, that there was enough time to prepare and sublegal acts. It was doubtless that this law would be passed at parliament, worked on it all last year, could already begin with the adoption of sublegal acts and thus get the law to be applicable as soon as possible. I think that the capacity of the ministry and the capacity of the government can certainly lead to the acceptance of our proposal to be three months. Let me remind you that at one of the previous sessions, a month ago, I think it was biocidal products, that's when we were given a three-month deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts. We asked to be there for a month because there was a need for a smaller number of sublegal acts than for this law and it was rejected. Obviously, our amendments to this law were consistent. So, we've been looking for faster deadlines, we've been looking for bigger penalties, we've been looking for more up-to-date government work convinced that the official part of the government, including some ministers, one of whom is present here, can use their capacity, knowledge and experience to speed up the processes necessary for the adoption of good laws and sublegal acts that they follow, so I expect you to adopt our amendment anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24265	Time. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24266	Let me put it this way, the amendment is accepted. I wanted to get to the government yesterday to change this conclusion at the last moment in government. But I didn't make it. Therefore, the amendment is accepted. We'll apply the three-month deadline to the sublaws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24267	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I find that the proposaler's representative has accepted the amendment, so the Parliament in voting day will declare it. Thank you. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24268	I'm in a bit of a weird situation right now. Our amendment was to reduce this six-month deadline to sixty days. Now we're down from six to three months, which is one shift. I wanted to say the arguments why we think it is, why we've even submitted this amendment and why it's good that it's three months. Although I think it'd be better if that deadline was shorter, and I'll tell you why. So, article 23 predicted the original six-month deadline, and now three months, for the making of sublegal acts. These are practically acts of how the administration is informed that an authority in connection with this law has encountered in its work on the person on the list designated as potential terrorists, and how this person is then informed of how, which property he is freezing, how he can exercise his rights and so on. The former Article 22 says that within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the government will establish that list and then in real life there will be a situation – we will have a list, that list will now be on the Internet and the government will start to check in their work and maybe come across a person, and then they won't know which way to turn to the administration within six months, and now it's three months. We think that this job can and should be completed in 60 days. In any case, the first deadline was inappropriately long because it created a vacuum that would not know how the authorities would address the Anti-Terrorism and Money Laundering Authority. So it's a good thing we were going to cut this deadline, although our original proposal was to make it 60 days so that it wouldn't be left like this for a while...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24269	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24270	I guess I have as president for a few more seconds, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24271	Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24272	Let me finish. This time where it might appear that there is simply no procedure prescribed by the sublaws to which these laws will be implemented, and that is why we have responded by this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24273	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Thank you. We move to item 2 of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Law. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoje Bradic, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24274	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, we have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Code, a law that is necessary for us to adopt because it is the harmonisation of our customs legislation with EU laws, and it is very important in the part of the amendments and additions that are necessary to enable the development and application of a new computerised transit system. Article 4 speaks of the introduction of goods into the customs territory, and he says the goods imported into the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia must be covered by a summary declaration, except for goods transported without stopping through the airspace of the Republic of Serbia. It further says that the minister prescribes a summary declaration that must contain the data necessary for carrying out risk analysis and proper application of customs controls, primarily for security and security purposes, with application, where possible, we suggest that this be deleted, international standards and business practices. So, we propose to delete the words "where this is possible", as this reduces the possibility of discretionary powers of the minister, i.e. when prescribing a summary declaration, the minister must always manage international standards and business practices, which is in line with the applicant's intensities, since amendments and the results of the harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU law have been proposed. What is couriness, dear viewers, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is that this law is passed by post-festum. So this law entered the procedure eight months ago. In December of the month, the government passed sublaws in accordance with this law that had not yet been adopted in the assembly procedure. Probably, and I asked the minister in the principle debate, someone in the ministry...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24275	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24276	Wait a minute, I'm using the MP's time group. ... He didn't do his job. I asked the minister, I know it wasn't his fault, he's from a recent minister and he didn't get the information Mr. Krstic put in the assembly procedure, but government officials, i.e. The ministry officials were obliged to inform him. We now have a law, instead of being passed after it, of a sublaw, we have a law that complies with already passed sublaws that have been passed on to an unadopted law, which means they were not in accordance with the law. Please, Mr. Minister, explain that to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24277	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honored Chairman of today's session, Mr Becic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, was adopted this amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Customs Law, which leads us to conclude that the effect of the MPs of the New Party on the debate and the amendment on this bill is 100% successful, so to speak. Two amendments have been adopted, i.e. two amendments have been adopted. I would like to congratulate Minister Vujović first of all and, of course, his associate and his associate on a kind of courage that they show by doing this at one time in the National Assembly, because they accept something that the National Assembly President today accepts. He doesn't even want to let it be discussed, to have a dialogue. Not to mention the role of MPs, for example. The Serbian advanced parties to whom it was happening, Mr Vujovic, that in his discussion of our amendments at one time, and that only a few minutes later, under the pressure or influence of one minister, such as yourself, must vote for something else. I am taking this opportunity, this occasion where all our amendments to one bill have been adopted, to encourage everyone together here, Mr Vujovic and Mr Becic, all SNS MPs to read carefully all our amendments and when they reason on these amendments to respect the power of argument, not force or number, respected Members of the People's Parliament and honourable Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24279	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank the applicants of this amendment, because they have not submitted these amendments hard for the government of the Republic of Serbia to survive until the end of its term of office. I would like to thank their constructive contribution to the amendments, which, for example, read in the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Code, in Article 12(2), between the words "declaration" and the words "subsisting" the blank letter space is deleted. You have preserved the integrity of the National Assembly and I thank you for that, too. You showed the government of the Republic of Serbia your very sharp and dangerous teeth, you taught them the sense that they must respect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the dignity of the MPs. I am in your favour, Mr. Pavicevic, immeasurably grateful.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24281	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24282	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr Minister, fellow MPs, we have provided for the addition of a new position with our amendment, which reads: "The administration of customs duties on its official website publishes within three days of the day of the creation of a customs debt, whose amount exceeds ten thousand euros in dinar equivalent, the following data: name and last name, residence, i.e. the seat of the debtor, the amount of customs debt, the name and last name, the place of residence, or the seat of the guarantor and the type and amount of guarantee provided. “ This Article 15 deals with this change to eliminate the possibility of only bank guarantees, but other means of guarantee security are also allowed. We felt that this amendment of ours would increase transparency in customs procedures, prevent abuses and reduce the possibility of corrupt behaviour with regard to acceptance of the guarantee and payment of customs debt. We believe that this amount of 10,000 euros in dinar equivalent is some example of good practice, some limit below where these data could be published, to be made available to the public. There are experiences from countries in an environment where such data are published for debts of a similar amount or over a specified period of time. The government has rejected our amendment with an explanation that Article 15, which is being amended in general by Article 231. The law, not the customs debt, but the guarantees. Let me say, I can sort of agree with the government's argument, in the sense that it is, this member is talking about guarantees, earlier just banking, and now all other forms where it can be guaranteed to settle customs debt, but we, limited by the Rules of Procedure and procedures in the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law, didn't have any other place to react in this way. We think it is better, I repeat, that it will increase transparency in work, reduce the possibility of corruption and better and better quality information of citizens, if this practice is introduced. So maybe not in this article, maybe it's more appropriate for any other member, we couldn't, you know, what are the possibilities when the amendments and the additions of the law are adopted. We all, here, tried it here. I'm saying, I can agree with that part that maybe this article isn't the best place, but we think that the essence of our amendment is good and that, if nothing, could be found right now, at this point, in this place, and we're going to see if in some subsequent changes and additions or some new law, it's going to be settled and this proposal is going to be included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24283	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24284	As you said, colleagues from the Customs Administration, or people dealing with customs matters at the Ministry, say they cannot accept this amendment for technical reasons. Otherwise, it is a perfectly acceptable idea to publish on the Internet these data that would be limited to payment guarantees. At this point, since there are no solutions and ways yet, we'd like to postpone that formulation and the first next time to introduce it. The idea of transparency and publication on the Ministry and Administration site is quite acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24285	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break and continue our work at 1400 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called on today's session to be attended by Mr Aleksandar Vulin, Minister for Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, Vladimir Pesic and Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and Tatjana Prijic, Head of the Group for the Protection of Persons with Disabilities of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. We move to the 5th point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE KRETANJU UZ HelpS PSA VODIĆA You have received amendments to the bill submitted by the MPs Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavićevic, Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Balša Bozović, Jovan Marković, Jovan Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Šutanovic, Goran Šutanovic, Goran Ćirić, Marko Đurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanović Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdan Bogdan Bogdan, Slobodan Homen, Dr. Blaže Bradić, Nenadže Čanak, Bojan Kos, Bojan Kos, Oljan Kos, Oljna Pag, Mr Djadić, Mrjadić and Mr Djažić. You have received the report of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradić submitted the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24287	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, we are discussing the bill proposal, i.e. in particular on moving with the help of guide dogs. It is indisputable that it is good that we pass this law and that this area should be arranged. It is indisputable that people with special needs need to go out to meet and help, facilitate life and legally regulate everything that can possibly be a problem in their everyday functioning. I welcome a law like this. I hope we can discuss these two amendments we put into this law, try to convince you to accept them. What I would give a suggestion to Mr. Minister, as the area is very specific, very special, and in the west extremely expensive. In our country, it can be simpler, for the simple reason that there are already organisations dealing with certain types of these activities in our country, and above all I mean the Kinological Union of Serbia, which can provide an immense contribution and assistance to the ministry, because it deals with this problem and has certain experience in training these dogs, so I would suggest you get in touch with the Kinological Union, because it is only necessary to train certain people who are closely trained in dog training, so that you have your powers. Those figures we've been listening to here if it costs tens of tens and tens of thousands of euros, it might come down to a few hundred euros to how much a puppy costs from a decent breeder. Basically, it's not gonna be a problem either, and I don't think anyone's gonna charge a dog like that for someone who needs this guy. I urge you to talk to the Kinological Union of Serbia, because they are, in my opinion, the most competent, able to answer all these questions and meet the needs these people have. As regards our amendment to Article 3, it refers to Article 1 where, after saying, “in accordance with the law,” the vesicle “a” is added, and at the end of the sentence, the point is deleted and the words “or the use of a guide dog in therapeutic, rehabilitation or other similar needs are added on the basis of the doctor’s recommendation. ” To remind you of a member, a person with disabilities who moves with the help of a guide dog, and in the following text – a person who moves with the help of a guide dog, is a blind or impaired person, who uses a wheelchair and every other person who has the status of a person with disabilities according to the law, and then goes what we add - who moves with the help of a guide dog. The following attitude says – the dog guide is a dog used to support movement or therapeutic, rehabilitation or other similar needs of a disabled person who has undergone special training in accordance with the law and which is clearly marked with adequate equipment. A guide dog instructor is a face that performs the training of a guide dog. We suggest that after this, the attitude that should be changed is: “Right to move with the help of the guide dog is the right of the guide dog to approach freely along with the guide dog and to move freely in public transport, facilities and areas in public use and in the workplace as well as in any other space. ” You have rejected this amendment with an explanation that the formulation is too wide, although that same formula you use in attitude 2, so I would ask you to reconsider accepting our amendment. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24288	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The word has a minister in the government, Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24289	I'll be very brief. Thank you again for understanding this law and of course we'll talk to the Kinological Union and everything else, because we're not much, since politics took the floor in the meantime, so we haven't talked much about the law, and we should have talked more about this law. Let me tell you, around the price, it's certainly extremely high prices to get an adequate guide dog to train a man. It's the hardest thing to do. We are already working on this, in collaboration with our EU partners, to provide some dogs and to provide proper training for people who would do so. This ministry will certainly help. We'll be there, and of course in the end, and in everything we do, we'll definitely lower the price more than once. Let's just get going. Just to be the first thing and certainly the Ministry will work on it. As far as the specific amendment is concerned, the problem is next. The doctor can't prescribe the use of a guide dog. Why? First, because the doctor is no expert on it, he can't do it. The dog, especially with this law, he doesn't regulate himself as some kind of orthopedic aid, he's something else. There's a third element, and that's volunteering. It's the blind person who's looking for the guide dog. So, she says -- I want a guide dog, I want to go through guide dog training, I have the right conditions so I can hold a guide dog, I can't get a doctor to prescribe a guide dog. I'm afraid this way we'd leave the possibility that doctors are experiencing guide dogs as some kind of orthopedic aid, which he isn't. He can't prescribe it. See how many elements it takes to get a guide dog. And as for the concrete movement, the whole law refers exactly to moving with a dog guide, he won't move alone, it's understood that he's moving with a man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24290	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24291	Thank you. I also think that the amendment to the proposed Article 3. The law on moving with the help of a guide dog, which refers to terms, should not be accepted, primarily because the guide dog is not medically helpful, but rather is a kind of support for self-movement, and this kind of support for the independent movement of blind persons, impaired persons and disabled persons. So this is where this law is first passed, which is absolutely in accordance with Article 20. UN Convention on the Assistance and Support of Persons with Disabilities. Article 20 of the Convention currently provides that persons with disabilities are required to assist and support the national laws of the signatories, or countries which ratified this Convention, and our country has ratified, with special training done previously. What I would also like to point out is that it is a high participation of all those in the making of this law, except for the competent ministry, all those to whom this law applies, which is the Union of the Blind, and I would especially like to emphasise the active participation of the School of Child Disabilities of the “Veljko Ramadanović” in Zemun, which was founded after the First World War, in 1917 in December, and that it has great experience in identifying persons with disabilities, above all weak and impaired faces, and that it was certainly able to propose adequate visions of support to these persons, and this adequate form of support for the independent movement and exercise of constitutional rights of this category of population is certainly a movement with the help of the guide dog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24292	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I fully understand your reasons. The dog is not a therapist, a therapist. But first of all, we were based on the position 2, which you said in the bill's proposal that the dog guide is a dog used to support movement or therapeutic, rehabilitation or other similar needs of persons with disabilities, who passed special training, in accordance with the law, and which is clearly marked with adequate equipment. But, let's not argue about it, it doesn't matter at all. In time, as this law applies, it is likely to be upgraded and upgraded. What's very important and what a lot of colleagues have been doing and talking about, it's a preparatory period. Dear colleagues, the preparatory period is – you give a puppy to that family who has a weak-sighted person and a person who will have a guide dog, to get used to the environment and to that family. That's the preparation period. What is very important and what I welcome, and what the minister understood and accepted as a suggestion, is that we have quality trainers, trainers, whatever you call them in Serbia, who only need to pass, and that is where the minister and I fully agree, a training for the specificity of the dog, performed by the blind person guide and the weak-sighted person. Otherwise, as far as the staff is concerned, Serbia has an extremely high quality frame, both at the Dog Training Centre, and in the Cinological Union of Serbia, etc. So, extremely high-quality and professional people. That's all we need to learn from these people, so they can apply the new knowledge needed for this particular training of these dogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24294	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24295	There is. We also have quality beds, we have trainers at the Ministry of the Interior, you didn't mention them, and they're also extraordinary. So, there are and it's not controversial, everyone will work with them. If I was not clear enough, to be crystal clear – the dog did not orthopedically help. The guide dog is actually more social than medical service. That's how we interpret it with this law. Just so we understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24296	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? (No) Adding the name and the new Article 11a. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoje Bradic together submitted an amendment proposing that the title and new member of 11a be added after article 11. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24297	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, similar to the previous amendment, we wanted to say here that we were simply undermining the need for harmonisation and with respect for some other legal solutions in other laws. That's what I was talking about in the principle debate, that we have a small proportion, to say, in respect of some other laws, so this desire for this amendment was in fact that we might point out a little bit more that we should take care of it. We say here – the guide dog instructor during the duration of the training of the dog and the person moving with the help of the guide dog are obliged to use all necessary protective means, baskets, leashes and so on and take all necessary measures to protect other persons, things and objects. Our wish wasn't now to enter some of the jurisdiction of some other laws or legal solutions, but perhaps what we talked about in the principle debate. Sometimes some other laws, although they have good solutions, have not fully fulfilled their purpose. And then I appealed to you to try to solve now and some of the problems that are lagging behind. Indeed, let us not deal with politics or any other topics, for it seems to me that part of the discussion of the law was very productive and very good. We don't have to get along, but we can talk about how proper it is. So we wanted, just to say, to establish the obligation to take certain protective measures by the instructor, the guide dog and by the person moving with the help of the guide dog. Of course, it is understandable that your argument that these substances are already foreseen by some of the laws. But we do have a real problem with implementation, first of all in local self-government, animal welfare law and the Veterinary Act, we need to do a lot more work on these things. We all have to change our minds together to become the society we want to be. Today, the discussion of the two Committees of the European Parliament and of the Serbian Parliament, on joining and stabilising the EU, and perhaps in the spirit of these all debates, we can also make this law a new driver of a new environment, which is certainly coming, the accession of the EU. We must also warn others that the Animal Welfare Act and the Veterinary Law are not always the most humane way to treat animals, first to carefree dogs. That's why this amendment, let's say, let's highlight all these relationships with the other laws. It happens that sometimes something is understood, and in Serbia the worst was in these 25 years when something is meant by some other law, it is usually not respected. That's why the desire for this amendment and I hope to end this debate in a tone like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24298	Thank you, Mr. Karic. The word has a minister in the government, Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24299	I understand your amendment, in fact, as a sort of way of distracting the public, which we're not working on enough. You have rightly pointed out, and that is so, the matter you speak of is regulated by two other laws. Also, the guide dog himself is precise and specific, said to be marked. It's known how the guide dog is marked, so it's more than clear, and you're completely management that local self-government has to and we said yesterday that we're going to have to do it very quickly, so it's six months, but we're going to, of course, warn local self-government what their obligation is, what their duty is. But this is a way to draw attention to stray dogs and draw attention to animals as such. In that sense, I fully understand your amendment. I think we've explained how we've explained it, that it's standing and that there's nothing that can be changed, but I understand your need to distract the public and that's completely understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24300	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has an authorised representative of the group's MP, Dr Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24301	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, I have only one remark, regardless of the amendment is well-intentioned, but even when it comes to dogs guides, some equipment is simply inapplicable to guide dogs, such as baskets. A dog guide in the course of his training passes the part that the lion warns that something with his owner may not be right or such a sound signalling warns a weak and blind person either at an obstacle or at an existing danger. So this piece of equipment is not applicable to guide dogs, and as far as the leash itself is concerned, it is absolutely clear that the undersighted and blind person uses the leash, and the dog is marked and it is clearly defined in the Law. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24302	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24303	There is no rational basis for accepting amendments, first of all, that the value of one law, such as this, is viewed in precision, in clarity but also in non-complication with other laws that adequately regulate this matter, which is the Animal Wellbeing Act and the Veterinary Act. I would also like to stress that the competent ministry, i.e. the Government, has recognised that the implementation of this Act requires integration and networking with the units of local self-government, and, later in one of its legal provisions, it has strictly stressed that the units of local self-government and other legal and natural persons are obliged to comply within six months of the date of entry into force of this Act, and that their normative acts, as well as that the sub-legal act, for which the competent ministry is to be adopted within six months. Therefore, clarity, precision, networking, and with those institutions that will apply this law at the bar, is explicitly stated in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24304	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24305	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I understood the minister quite well, and I don't know why it is further interpreted, but exactly what the minister said was enough for this debate, I don't know what additionally wrong interpretation, but from law to law, from debate to debate, and then it was the reason for the amendment to Article 3. Then you did not understand or explain the refusal of the previous amendment that my colleague had told and just not using the guide dog for therapeutic purposes, but by expanding the activity, i.e.. The authority to say or the right to move with the help of a guide dog. That we are not going back to that previous amendment now because it is in line with what you said, but you are using one argument for the needs of one amendment, another argument for the needs of the second amendment. I thank the Minister since it was enough and understandable that he explained and what remained at the level of what he explained in the course of all these amendments. I don't understand that need for a constant twist and an explanation of words that aren't spoken and you're doing it from a session to a session and then most often the chairperson doesn't give the right to a replica, but this time we have another time, so I used it to say what's happening already several sessions in a row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24306	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac, authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24307	Thank you. I just wanted to explain, because you mentioned dog equipment, why it's completely inappropriate for a dog to wear a basket, that's one thing and the other, because you've put it in an explanation that it's a dangerous tool. A dog guide is not a working dog from police and military jurisdiction to be a dangerous asset. This is a dog used for the ultimate human purpose. So, I don't do politics. I clearly and accurately gave you an explanation of what the equipment can, and what cannot be used and why, for medical reasons, and in accordance with your explanation of the amendment that the dog guide is a dangerous tool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24308	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24309	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support the views of Mrs Rakonjac and Mrs Jeftovic, and I do not think this amendment should be accepted for the reasons mentioned, because it has long not arrived this good, precise law, which does not require any further work, especially with this kind of amendment. But I also agree with the amendment that some of the provisions of some other laws should be amended. I will side with the promoter to amend the Animal Welfare Act, given that this law has been passed and that it is very imprecise and that in some cases it has overprotected some animals and even those grown to produce fur. So soon, the next few years will be banned from breeding furskins, chinchillas, turtles, etc., but imports of coats will not be prohibited. It's illogical for me, that something can't be produced, but it can be imported. There are other reasons, and as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I will support the proposing that we amend some laws, specify. I've listed some provisions that are illogical. Most likely, the amendment promoter has others, but this is the subject of these other laws. So I'm not running away from changing the Animal Welfare Act, but I'd like to draw some attention to the law and to the well-being of people, to protect people, because certain layers of our society have fewer rights than protected species. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24310	Thank you. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the National Assembly Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Friday 20 March 2015, starting at 15.00 hours, as a day for voting on agenda items of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-20-0.u24311	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 142 MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions to decide. I put to the vote the draft law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – no one, with abstention – has voted eight of the total 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposaler's representative accepted this amendment during the search in particular. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – no one, with abstention – has voted five of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment I am putting to the vote a bill on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has passed a bill on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Jankov Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dr Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one of the 168 MPs present, voted for – 167. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on amendments and amendments to the Customs Code. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between KfW, Frankfurt on May and the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 15,000,000 euros for the Energy Efficiency Project in Public Objects, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – no one, with abstentions – there are none who have not voted, of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in preventing, investigating and combating customs offences, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one of the 168 MPs present, voted for – 167. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I'm putting the motion for a bill on movement with the help of a guide dog, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – no one, with abstention – has voted nine of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dr Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Dr Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaža Bradić together have submitted an amendment proposing to add the name and new member of 11a after Article 11. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting a vote on the bill of motion with the help of a guide dog, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 167 MPs in total. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill of movement with the help of a guide dog. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on social security, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I am voting on the government's proposal to elect Professor Dragan Mitrovic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Law at the University of Belgrade, as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – no one, with abstention – has voted nine of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the government's proposal by majority and thus decided to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee, starting on 1 April 2015. Let me congratulate Professor Dragan Mitrovica on his choice and wish him success in his work on your behalf. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the office of President of the General Court in Panchev, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. We move on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 18 March 2015, at 10 hours and 38 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstentions, did not vote 157 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 18 March 2015, at 12 hours and 5 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, the abstentioned did not vote 150 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 19 March 2015, at 12 hours and 53 minutes, pointed to the violation of members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – one, the abstentioned did not vote 142 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 20 March 2015, at 10 o'clock and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – one, the abstentioned did not vote 142 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
