ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u44992	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 63 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 70 MPs are present in the hall and that we do not have the conditions to begin work. I'm setting a 15-minute break. At 10 o'clock, we move on. Otherwise, let me tell you, according to the Rules of Procedure, everyone in the room is required to identify themselves. Read the Rules of Procedure from the first to the last member, not just what you like, Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u44993	Dear People's MPs, to determine the quorum, please insert your identification cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the representatives, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u44994	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, as regards air pollution. In these days, when meteorological conditions are unfavourable and there is an increase in the emissions of harmful emissions into the air, there is a situation that in some inhabited areas the allowed concentrations of air pollution are exceeded and according to some studies of carbon dioxide emissions in our country are twice as high as in some similar economies, namely, in countries where, as in Serbia, the social product is at that level. The damage is estimated to be about a billion and a half euros yearly due to increased concentrations of harmful substances in the air, and one quarter of Serbia's population breathes in polluted air. Also, estimates suggest that almost 27% of all diseases are caused by some external factors and that air pollution is the reason for increased number of cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection and reads – has there been an increase in air pollution in some inhabited areas in our country? First of all, it refers to Bor, Užice, Smederevo, Kostolac, Lazarec, Obrenovac, Pancheva, some parts of Belgrade. In fact, we had data from the City Health Protection Institute in our capital that in certain parts of Belgrade there was increased aero-pollution due to the excretions mainly to soot and dust, but there are other harmful ingredients in our air, such as chemicals or biological agents. In some cities in Serbia located in boilers, it is particularly difficult now that fog is created, when temperatures are lower, when fossil fuel consumption is increased. My question – what does it look like to reduce the harmful emissions of these gases, to exclude from traffic cars that do not meet standards, at least Euro-3, to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels, i.e. to reduce heating on coal, wood and oil? In particular, in some cities in the region, it is a difficult situation. I'll mention Skopje and Sarajevo. In Sarajevo, as much as 10 times the pollution allowed, 25 micrograms per metre of cubic particle is only allowed, and for example, 300 micrograms per cubic metre of air is recorded in Sarajevo these days. It's supposed to be a similar situation in some of our cities, but we're not getting that information yet. I call for regular, therefore, information on air temperature, pressure, humidity, air pollution data to be reported. We know that because of economic opportunities many citizens are forced to cancel central heating or electricity heating, to increasingly benefit wood and coal. We know cases that in some cities in southern and eastern Serbia, in saltworks, in residential buildings where there are no conditions for heating to wood, people are that way heated. This also causes other problems, the dangers of fires, and in particular the air is further polluting. All of this leads to much more carbon dioxide and submordioxide, nitrogen oxides and other harmful substances in our air.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u44995	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u44996	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, if there is a limit to the humiliation of journalists by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Government? We learned through the media yesterday from the prime minister that Bratislav Gasic was removed from office as defence minister. How is that possible when the National Assembly did not vote on it? It is just another example that Aleksandar Vukic does not respect the country's state institutions and constitutional order. So my question to the prime minister is – when will Bratislav Gasic really be removed from the post of defence minister? I ask this question with a reminder that Alexander Vukic needed six weeks of parliamentary elections to put together 18 ministers, and now he cannot find just one minister in three weeks. It is clear to us long ago that the Serbian Progressive Party has absolutely no staff to manage this country successfully, but there is likely to be some non-party person who would accept this responsible job. I also remind you that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, after a statement by Bratislava Gasic that he loves journalists who kneel easily, said we must protect all women in Serbia and that Serbia will be a modern, decent and normal country. My question to Alexander Vukic is – why not protect all women in Serbia and has he given up on Serbia being a modern, decent and normal country? I also remind you that the Social Democratic Party has voiced its view that Bratislava Gasic must not be left time to resign, but must be resolved, or removed here in the assembly. The opposite is happening, and it is quite clear that it is going to be that Bratislava Gasic eventually resigns at the end of the regular session and then remains to hold his ministerial post until early parliamentary elections. Therefore, I ask again, recalling the responsibility of Bratislava Gasic for the helicopter's downfall, reminding him of his inappropriate conflict with the Citizens' Protector, when he refused to provide information about the incident involving the Military Police and Andrej Vukic, reminding him that he was being charged for discrimination in Vojsca Serbia, as well as that he was giving his son and wife money from the Kruševac City budget for their television, when would Bratislav Gasic be removed from the post of defence minister? Also, did the advanced Serbian dictionary say, "combinations" that Bratislava Gasic ends for Aleksandra Vukic are a priority over respect for human rights in this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u44997	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u44998	Thank you, Your Honor. My question concerns the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. In fact, it is evident that in recent days, an attempt to manipulate and abuse farmers for political purposes has been evident, and with one clear goal; to cover up one of the province's governments and to make all the bad things they have today in Vojvodina, there is in Vojvodina, when we talk about the work of the province's government, and this is a lot of it, all that responsibility to be attributed to the government of the Republic of Serbia, so that, therefore, only with one clear goal, it is to preserve the chairs, which will be very difficult, after the province elections that will be held in the beginning of next year. So we believe that our farmers deserve answers to some rights and specific questions. First question. Prior to the start of privatisation in Serbia, 91 agricultural combinations and around 108 agricultural goods worked successfully. Our question is very specific, how many agricultural goods are working and operating in Serbia today? Is it true that 120,000 hectares of the country ended up in somebody's possession, and that the state lost tens of millions of euros, Serbia's agriculture, that huge damage was done, that about 500,000 jobs were shut down, that the stock fund was destroyed, that the co-operation of tens of thousands of herdsmen was shut down, and that the key link in the chain of agricultural production and the development of the Serbian economy was cut off? Here is the key question, when we talk about agricultural combinations, were small agricultural producers, who participated in the construction of these agricultural combinations, able to participate in the privatisation of the combinations they themselves created, which they themselves built? During the term of office of which governments were subjected to the catastrophic privatisation of agricultural combinations? The second question is clear that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land absolutely prohibits the sale of land to foreign legal and physical persons, could foreign persons in previous years, through the privatisation of our businesses, have come to the highest quality land ownership? The next question, this law will finally introduce order into land policy and we expect from the Ministry of Agriculture, after the adoption and implementation of the law, to answer the question of who usurps and who legally uses land today? I think that after that we can also get a concrete answer to the question – who and why does the adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Agricultural Land Act bother us? Also, I will return you back to 2011, remember the 2011 ban on sugar tail exports, which is why Croatia has sued our state of arbitration in Vienna and will have to pay from eight to 10m euros in case of loss of the dispute. We ask the question – is it true? Speaking of sugar, the question is, who was at the head of the agriculture ministry when the sugar repacking problem was made, and why did Serbia have a serious problem with exporting sugar to the EU? Who and why in 2007 banned the export of cereals from Serbia? The last question, also addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, is it true that in 2014 and 2015, a catastrophic decline in the stock fund has been halted and that Serbia has seen growth in increasing the livestock base in the last two years, and there is also an increase in agricultural exports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u44999	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45000	A question for the prime minister, finance minister and local self-government minister. So are we all here in the hall, and of course the prime minister and mentioned ministers, aware of the importance of including local self-government in the process of accession negotiations? We all here in the hall advocate Serbia's EU integration as quickly as possible, but we show that we are making decisions and laws that reduce the capacity of local self-government from day to day. We passed laws that led local self-government to the brink of bankruptcy, and many here in the O.R. know that. I'll give you some examples. The city of Nis and the budget of the city of Nis is being executed with about 60% of the planned level. Do you think that it is possible, the question is addressed to the prime minister, the finance minister, that with 60% of the planned funds, all the obligations that are essential to the citizens of Nis, and that is not only the question of Nis, but also the question in other cities: Kragujevac, Užica and many other cities? What are the consequences of public utility systems that directly serve the most important needs of citizens living in local self-government? My request and my question to the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister is do we have a consolidated report on all the local self-government budgets, the results of all the local public utility systems? When we get those results, I think we'll be aware that there's a systematic flow of funds from the local self-government budget to the central budget. At this meeting, we adopted some laws that show and prove such a thing, and we also had reactions from many presidents, current presidents and mayors in Serbia, who belong not to the opposition, but to the ruling coalition, who raised their voice against the announcement of a new law, against which the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Serbia was against, and this is an announcement that an additional eight billion dinars of transfers to local self-government will certainly weaken the capacities of important units that make up the country's stability. In the announcement at this meeting we also have the adoption of the Law on Chambers of Commerce and that is another confirmation that we are going seems to be a process, an accelerated process of centralisation. In this great struggle particularly intensely since 2000, in order to strengthen local self-government, their competences, their incomes, which is evident and can be confirmed and quantified by figures. We have a process in which they dissipate, in which jurisdiction is diminished and in which the quality of these services declines, that we do not talk about the state of the heat and yesterday we talked about debts, accumulated debt to "Srbigas" and to energy suppliers. We're talking about jeopardizing citizens' most vital interests. The example of Nis is that the budget plan for this year was 12 billion, it was filled with 6.5 billion. Do you think it's possible to function in a city with such a level of budgeting? With a decision that awaits us immediately after these parliamentary issues and with amendments that have not been accepted in the debate on the law on chambers of commerce, the attitude towards something that citizens for more than 100 years, and this is the Regional Chamber of Commerce in Nis, the respect of all those businessmen who have built this for more than a century and the withdrawal of the legal subjectivity of the Regional Chamber of Commerce in Nis. If we know that local self-government, not only the municipal systems should lead, but also manage local economic development, I think that this is how we prove that this process of accelerated centralisation in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45001	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45002	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question has been addressed to the Prime Minister of the AP, Mr Bojan Pajtic, above all because the previous weeks, the president of the AP has been using both his working time and his official vehicles for the purpose of representing the president of the DS and presenting his election campaign. And in our town, Uzic was almost a party promotion of a pre-election programme titled "New Agenda for Serbia", but on that agenda, there was virtually nothing to be disappointed above all of their sympathisers, but the slightly well-known empty promises mostly developed points, that point under various circumstances, which meant insults and numerous charges at the expense of the government, at the expense of the prime minister, but also at the expense of fellow MPs. The script was almost similar in every city, and so I ask Mr Pajtic, first of all because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are interested, to work out these agendas a little bit, and explain to us, provided that they are once again in power, to hire all those young people who have graduated from colleges, and within just six months, how did they promise this programme? We are interested in whether these employment plans were planned in all those companies that, during their reigning catastrophic privatisations, destroyed and brought into bankruptcy and explained why they did not apply such a simple programme when they were in power, but fired nearly half a million Serbian citizens and disbursed state property? I am also not sure that the Serb village would be happy with this programme if we had in mind that many villages in Vojvodina are now being sold for some hundreds of thousands of euros, as much as it should be worth in Vojvodina a good rural household. We are witnessing that already today, within a few hours, at 12.00 hours, the abuse of farmers for political purposes, Mr Bojan Pajtic, will be evident. Also when it comes to political action and the co-operation of political parties, officials, thanks to the SNS and our coalition partners, we have introduced a democratic principle to respect the principles of truth, honesty, co-operation and co-ordination in the general interest of our fellow citizens who have chosen us in these places. I mention this because there is an impression that wherever and in whatever municipality and city Bojan Pajtic appears, these principles are no longer respected, above all by his high-ranking officials. To make it clear to everyone, I'm going to set an example of why I'm saying this, even though the example isn't lonely. Although the second year in a row after visiting its president, the US MP leaves immediately after visiting with numerous charges and bringing out the truths that we are not doing or doing something, but above all, the accent is always on how we want to vote for bigger transfers of money from the republican budget for Uzice, and he publicly claimed that I did not. What worries me very much is that we have to endure silences all the time, and so far, we have endured silences by those who have reduced these transfers by as many as 100 million dinars during their government. Imagine for 100 million dinars is during the government of DS and the gentleman who now accuses all of us for 100 million dinars has been reduced to the city of Uzic. Perhaps these accusations go precisely because there is a desire to calm your own conscience. Simply, after all, you insist that you do not have the same rights and that you do not have the conditions for an honest election campaign, and that is why you thought about boycotting the election. I just want to ask – this is not what your fair and fair election fight has been planned for now. Why don't you honestly tell the citizens that you don't have a problem with representatives and members of the SNS, but you already have a problem with your members who are getting sick, but you have a problem with fats that are getting smaller and empty where they meet you in Serbia? So be honest, because in this time Serbian citizens have learned to respect honesty and to distinguish it from the truth and my wish would be to truly commit yourself to your electoral body and to truly commit yourself to these points of your agenda because it seems that if you continue like this there will be no quorum that could vote these points of your agenda, and the result would simply be drawn somewhere below the censorship. I would also take the opportunity to congratulate, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, everyone who celebrates Christmas tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45003	Thank you. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work on the agenda. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Borislav Kovacevic and Vladimir Marinkovic. We move on to the debate following amendments to the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session, depending on the items of the agenda that come to the debate by Željko Sertić Minister of Industry, Prof. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Aleksandar Antić Minister of Mining and Energy, Ivan Tasovac Minister of Culture and Information and Dr. Srdjan Verbić Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, as well as their associates from the Ministry of Industry, Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the National MPs Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavićevic, Ivana Dinić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Mr. Dr. Blagoje Bradić, Marko Djurisić, Aleksandar Senić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karić, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Pek, Anamarija Vicek, Natasa Vukković, Gordana Čomić, Balša Bozović, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovana Marković, Dr. Tomić, Zoran Babić, Dalibor Radičević, Momir Stojanović, Dr. Ljubica Mrdaković Todorović, Zoran Jozić, Adriana Anastav, Dr. Darko Laketić, prim. Dr Branimir Rančić, Radmilo Kostic, Ninoslav Girić, Ivan Jovanovic and Suzanne Spasojevic. National MPs Dalibor Radcevic, Momir Stojanovic, Ljubica Mradaković Todorovic, Zoran Jozic, Adriana Anastasov, Dr Darko Laketić, prim. Dr. Darko Rancic, Radmilo Kostic and Ninoslav Girić, have writtenly withdrawn the amendments to Articles 3 and 5. It's a bill of law. You have received a report from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism, Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. To the name of Chapter 1. Introductory provisions, the name above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment, together with the correction, were submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Comić, Balša Bozovic, mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The names Glava 1 and Article 1 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45004	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are also in the principle debate, I think, Minister Sertic, agreed that today, since we are dissatisfied with the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, we should thoroughly search this bill, analyze, respected gentlemen, member by member, amendment by amendment, and finally see who was wrong, and who was right. We propose, Minister Sertić, that Article 1 of this proposal be deleted, which contains the introductory provisions on what is governed by this law. I was going to do it today, and I prepared myself, asking questions from Minister Sertic concerning the very specific members of the bill. Minister Sertic, we are against the promoter of ideas, and we treat you as a proponent of ideas, so that all economic operators in our Republic are forced to join one, and then we conclude, Minister Sertic, a privileged chamber. The chamber membership, gentlemen, to be heard by the MPs, should, in our court, be the result of an assessment and one subject, to call it subject M, that membership in the chamber can contribute to that subject's or her interests, for example. In other words, subject M is the only one who can assess whether membership in the chamber can mean anything to that entity, so that subject M should therefore assess whether to join the Chamber of Commerce or not. The minister says - you have to be a member of the Chamber of Commerce. I'm interested, for example. What does Mr Sertic say, what is his counterargument to this argument that has been given in the amendment to a member? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45005	The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45006	Dear Members of Parliament, the honourable MPs who have proposed an amendment to Article 1, as I understand your amendment on which you have written, is deleted on Article 1, so practically the Chamber of Commerce shouldn't exist at all, because it doesn't say anything here that you were just talking about. There are members who concern and that part, I hope when we get to that member that we will have an argument as to how you mentioned it yourself, but don't mention it in the members who... We could have talked about it in principle, talked about all the general acts, and there would be an opportunity, as you say, today to touch every element of this law. I'll just remind you that I greatly appreciate and respect the work, not only of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, but of all the chambers of commerce. I believe that it is of great importance for healthy economic life in Serbia, and the model that we have proposed and what we propose is based on the largest economies in Europe, namely Germany, France, Austria, Italy, etc., etc. There will be an opportunity to talk about each member and I believe that you will be pleased with our answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45007	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45008	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the amendment not to be accepted. I was waiting to hear an explanation for this proposal and how I understood the author of the amendment – the point is that they are against the promoter of the idea, as we just heard, not against the proposed idea. I can't agree with that approach, and if that's going to be an argument for all the other amendments, I'm going to have to call on us to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45009	Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and MPs Natasa Vukovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45010	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we have started a fundamental debate in this way on the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. We National MPs of the NS have also submitted an amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a law on chambers of commerce and I will now focus more specifically on the content of the members to read what it says in Article 2. Article 2 writes – Chambers of Commerce are interesting, business professional and non-profit organisations of economic entities that connect and, now, is the most important place, respected gentlemen, and Mr Orlic to hear, which connects the common business interest, in order to coordinate and represent the interests of members and encourage business activities. I ask a new question to Minister Sertic, but here I see that Mr Orlic is prepared for work, and also to Mr Orlic – who, Minister Sertic, is best able to decide on his interest, because in Article 2 he writes – they are interested organisations that connect the common business interest? Which entity may, instead of an entity that is interested, e.g. To be a member better than him to know what his interest is. It's necessary, I think, to extend a little bit to art. 9, 10 and 11 because it's already prejudged here that what's my imaginary interest is that it's best to be judged by someone else, someone who might be out of the domain of my interest, and then the other one, for example. a chamber of commerce like this structured for me to say – it's your interest to make my interest here. Is that the market economy, Minister Sertic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45011	Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45012	I suppose some MPs don't understand the essence of the organization of the business system and the chambers of commerce at all, and it's not the first time that we've dealt with here in a lack of understanding of certain members of the law, because you've re-proposed to delete it, you haven't suggested a transformation or a better idea, but you're asking us to delete it. This would mean that we should not wipe out the national chamber, not wipe out all the regional chambers that we have today 16, two provinces, but to wipe out the foreign chambers that exist in us and the American Chamber of Commerce, and the representations of the British Chamber of Commerce and the German delegation presented to us in Belgrade and all those that have so far applied and are seeking precisely to improve the economic situation in the country, because of the much better conditions of business and the desire of the Chamber of Commerce to come and be present on the Serbian market to do good for their members, you, respected Mr Pavicevic, are proposing their abolition. We can't agree on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45013	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45014	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, gentlemen, again call on the amendment not to be accepted. Mr. Minister, with this assessment of the level of understanding that's been established, you're quite right. Article 2 does not address the question of defining any interest by the chambers. I would call for seriousness in the work, until then we absolutely can't accept this kind of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45015	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45016	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's quite a serious law. We're a little unserious about this debate. There are certain institutes here that we can criticise, that we expect to improve through amendments. They'll have colleagues from the opposition to do so. This is a very important law, a law that is eagerly expected by all businessmen, I would say, in Serbia because so far we have had a law that did not correspond to the transitional changes that occurred in this society in these 10 to 15 years, which relied on some system of times of socialism and was simply not in the interest of most entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs expect exactly what it says in this article, which is that they have an interesting organisation that will bring them together, which in both professional and business terms will mean an opportunity to go to foreign markets. It's also an interest in the state. Today, the state is withdrawing from the market, and it is the Chamber of Commerce that needs that space left between state and business entities to fill. So, of course, the amendment is not acceptable, but let's take a little more concrete and well-intentioned consideration of all of these proposals, all of these institutes that are proposed, because I really think they're very important for the future of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45017	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45018	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, is absurd to speak at all about economic operators who do not want to join. First, the basic principle of functioning of a company is that it generates profit, that it be economically profitable what one does. Owner, group of natural persons or individual creates a business entity, i.e. He's registering it to work. To work and have a future, he joins in. This merger is precisely because it could easily place its goods and services on the market. Is this export related to the region or to other countries more developed than they are in our region, but it is now providing an opportunity through association. Therefore, it is completely unclear why the proposer gives such an amendment and, in reason, says that someone else will represent the interests of a particular economic operator and that it can function alone on the market. It's simply in total contrast to economic logic. Therefore, this kind of amendment should not be accepted and should not even be explained anymore, because they are totally destructively affecting those businessmen who listen to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45019	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45020	Dear colleagues, I would like to join in this discussion. It is a little problematic when we get an amendment asking to delete what is in that article. That really leads to, frankly, confusion, because, in fact, if we're erasing something, it doesn't exist. There's a few things I can't agree with from the discussions that we've had so far. One of these things is that profit is the main objective of every society. It can't be, it doesn't apply to companies or individuals. That's exactly what I think it should be the primary objective of every subject to the well-being of all its members, and when we transfer it to the country level, that means the well-being of all our citizens. That's where the colleague who suggested the amendment comes in the opposite. He says that no one can take a closer look at his goal, that is, his desire for association, or his interest in him. That's what's the big problem with us. We cannot be selfish and think only of our individual goals. If we did that, it wouldn't be good, but we have to look a little wider. There are some goals that are general, or common. And every economic operator, every single individual should take care of them, not only to him, but to be in the interest of all citizens. So I say, keep in mind that each of us should be a primary goal in everyday life, and also in this business sense, the well-being of all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45021	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45022	Dear Vice President, General, I suggest that the amendment be rejected for three reasons. The first reason is that it's pointless. The second reason is that he's unserious. The third reason it's negative. I expected from the gentleman of academic honesty, since it's about the definition of the Chamber of Commerce, that it will give a possible change to the concept of definition, not - is deleted. We invite MPs from opposition benches to compete and compete in constructive action. I note that the second member of his party, since there are only two members, suggested that the "Smederevo Zelezara" be deleted and that workers be sent home. He said that on "N1 TV" etc., and you saw what happened. So, I call on my colleague, since it's an academic citizen, let's cross, let's say, proposals to improve this member, etc. So I put this out for constructive debate and, secondly, for academic honesty and civic responsibility. Therefore, I suggest that the amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45023	The word is made by MP Milan Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45024	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I certainly think this amendment should be rejected. I absolutely respect the engagement and commitment of the work of fellow Members of Parliament who submitted this amendment, but this is an alphabet one with which any law and title begins – introductory provisions. In these opening provisions, in Article 2, we have not heard anything new that could fix and possibly essentially contribute. We just here have a rubber as a means of writing amendments, and we don't have a pen and we don't have a thought, thoughtfulness in this amendment is "expunged," so that we don't see what he's doing himself in Article 2 of the Law. Well, I suggest a colleague, since I say again, I appreciate his work and his integrity, too, to look at the little Law of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, whose reputation this law has been made by. I suggest that this amendment be rejected once again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45025	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45026	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has forgotten that Cardellj has died, that there are no more OOURs working independently on the market. They raced, raced, and made a mess. So, if this amendment were to be deleted, the essence is in that amendment, then we should complete this proposal for a law on chambers of commerce to abolish. That can't happen. So this amendment is the essence of this proposal for a law on the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45027	On behalf of Chapter II and Article 3 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45028	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted the amendment to Article 3. I would also like to announce my satisfaction with the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce Law that we are discussing thoroughly every member of this bill, and even those MPs who call amendments nonsense do so. After that, of course, they disprove their position by participating in the debate. Here, Mr. Smitic, a specific question, and for each member, I have prepared concrete questions. By reading the content of Article 3, it is easy to reveal, to say, a kind of thoughtlessness in the actions of the promoter and the absence of basic preparation, I think, and debates. It's one of the preconditions that we have good bill proposals. Here, for example, I ask you, how did the proposing not predict the existence of chambers of commerce, statistical regions in Serbia with headquarters in the centres of these regions, e.g. in Belgrade, in Kragujevac and Nis? This is an amendment, gentlemen, which I didn't come up with with with my knowledge, skill, having information from this area, but this is an amendment that I have drawn up based on the interventions of some people who are already operating in some regional chambers of commerce and who are me, for example. have reported that if you do not offer a good answer to this question now that these people, after the entry into force of this law, will remain deprived of some funds, e.g. EU pre-accession funds, and that we will, by doing this, deny these people the ability to act well and create a good business environment. I think this is a very specific question, gentlemen, for our guest, Minister Sertic today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45029	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45030	I still can't find it in this Article 3 you're talking about, the topic you're talking about. And again, I'm going to say that this subject you're talking about right now is related to some other members and it makes sense and we're going to talk and I'm going to start it right now, right now, but the more secure subject of this article. And your amendment again, the honourable MPs, reads, "is deleted." So, you're telling us this way that in Article 3 which states that there is a Serbian Chamber of Commerce, autonomous provinces' chambers, a special organisation of a single chamber system in which it is written, in a second view, that there are contractual chambers, you say, "is deleted". So your essence of your amendment is that commercial chambers do not exist in the legal economic system of the Republic of Serbia. Neither I as Minister nor Government of the Republic of Serbia, nor do I believe the vast majority of MPs today, who will be all this time of debate and in the voting day, will support your position to delete the chambers of commerce from the register of economic classifications in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45031	Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovan Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted the title above the members and Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45032	Thank you. An amendment to Article 3, which reads - below the edge of a type of chamber - in the Republic of Serbia there are the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and the Chamber of Commerce of Autonomous Provinces, as a special organisation of a single chamber system of the Republic of Serbia, with the property of a legal person. In the Republic of Serbia there may also be contractual chambers of commerce in accordance with this law. When it was the process of the previous law on chambers of commerce, it was controversial for two reasons. The first reason was mandatory or optional membership, the second reason was the property of the chambers of commerce located on, usually, good locations in cities and municipalities, and none of the two controversial reasons for the conflicts over the previous law, essentially, was resolved. What I had in mind back then, I have now. The spirit of this law, unlike the law that regulates the Austrian, German chamber, about how much we don't talk, paints how little we trust each other. And trust is the basic glue of society and the idea of moving the jurisdiction of some central decision to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is not good. I know that this will not be the case in life, and that it will depend most on the people who will work in these chambers of commerce, as most of the people who are now working in the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, Mark Chad and his colleague in the Chamber of Commerce in Kosovo, depended on understanding that people here and there need some kind of breakthrough of business co-operation, but would have to work together with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce to show that they have confidence in fully independent work, regional chambers of business, city or province. This law makes it very clear, I'm not saying it forbids it, but it says everything will have to happen with the patronage of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45033	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45034	I think it's a complete misunderstanding again, exactly the spirit of the law. I understand what you're talking about, and I know that you participated last time in very serious objections to the law that was passed in 2009, and I'm going to talk about it a little later, but here it's not the point that jurisdiction is being transferred to the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, as the legal person that exists today. We're doing exactly the opposite, and we've had this story on the board, and we've had it in public. Today there are 16 regional chambers. The aim of this law is to establish 29 chambers, so we extend influence and that capillaries vote. Each chamber within the management district will have its own parliament of businessmen in which all businessmen will have the right to vote. It's a complete opposite of all the claims that something is now centralizing. It is under this territorial principle that governance functions will be represented equally by people from Vranja, Nis, Sudotica, who have equal rights as Belgrade or the Chamber of the City of Belgrade. That is the essence of this law and this proposal. And there's no complete centralization and decision-making in one place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45035	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45036	We've heard again Mr. Minister's argument, and we don't really agree deeply on this proposal. I think this is really a centralised process, and we can't talk about the decentralisation process when the legal subjectivity of regional chambers of commerce that have had so far is shut down, and not just so far, but in the last 100 years. And Nis and Kragujevac have some property, and they have a tradition of joining businessmen from the area, protecting the interests of the whole part of Serbia. I think it is also important to say that these organisations show that the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia is being held, that we have the commercial chambers of autonomous provinces, but we are not talking about subjectivity, the legal subjectivity of the chambers of commerce, the regional ones, which will represent the interests of a great deal of central Serbia. And again, you're talking about decentralisation by managing it exclusively from the Republic Chamber of Commerce, because it can, because I know what amendment you adopted at the next point, point four, which can establish regional chambers of commerce, but of course it doesn't have to. Now, we're talking about the need to define regional chambers of commerce, preserve status and legal subjectivity and property acquired more than a century at this point in three.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45037	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45038	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, obviously has the intention of protecting the legal subjectivity of certain parts of the Chamber of Commerce. So it's important who has the money, not who has the money and manages the business. If you say that there will be no 16 chambers and two autonomouss in the new proposal but 29, but we say that there can be more, that means that there is complete transparency and possibility of association at all levels. I'm going to give you an example, the PKS is one system that has been functioning under the 1998 law until now when we're not discussing a new one, but let's say a number of businessmen, some 120 companies wanted to do based on their activity, which is approximately related to the protection of the environment, to create one Chamber of Commerce of Green Serbia, but that wasn't enough either. Why? Because a certain group of businessmen, 11 who invested over 50m euros through investments in their businesses, were not satisfied that the chamber represented their interests and even singled out and from there and created their own association. That's completely legitimate. Each company decides on its fate and who it will team up with and who it will work with and how it will go out on the market. Therefore, if you said it could register a regional Chamber of Commerce and even a district, and a city, and a municipality, it means that you are fully opening up the possibility that everyone participates in it. There are two ways to regulate participation in chambers. It's models in both the west and the east. It's either voluntary or legally binding. So if we go to a voluntary system, you're just opening up the market and the possibility that economic operators will join together. When it comes to decentralisation, regionalization, so you know what decentralisation, regionalization doesn't mean anarchisation. So now we're going to do whatever we want, have the money we want, without the control of the businesses that we represent. By introducing this parliament where all economic operators in one municipality, one city will have the right through a certain parliament to see what these chambers are doing, it is now giving the possibility to completely change the economic environment and business activities of the local. I think this is one of the good models in which essential chambers of commerce should function. After all, we didn't invent it, such models exist in developed countries, and such models work, give great results. The Austrian Chamber of Commerce model is just one of the models represented here, and it gave the best results – increased exports, increased the competitiveness of the economy and increased the inflow of foreign direct investment. Therefore, such amendments are not acceptable and therefore the amendment which is next is exactly the appropriate way in which all chambers of commerce can function. Because if we're talking about nicks, then they're going to want a Novi Sad, then they're going to want a Kragujevac, then Belgrade, Vranje, Leskovac, simply the same type of regionalisation, the same availability of financial resources, and nobody's going to deal with property or their members, which is why the Chamber of Commerce is founded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45039	On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs were submitted by Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic and MP of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and the magistrate Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45040	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, is one in a series of draft laws that deprives the city of Nisu of Nislim's powers. In addition to abolishing the public service of Nish city television, following the suspension of the Southeastern distribution and transfer of Nis to Belgrade, there is now the abolition of the Nis Chamber of Commerce. As a national MP, I asked you what the government and your ministry planned for "Southeast" Serbia and I would like to remind you that Nisa Chamber of Commerce covers Nisa, Pirotski and Toplički district. These are the environments that are the poorest environments, which have a large number of devasted municipalities, and this is exactly the one proposal that worried Nishli. I would like to draw attention to the fact that from the Nis Chamber of Commerce that they are afraid and think that by losing legal subjectivity, they will prevent them from participating in international tenders within the EU and European funds, due to co-operation with regional chambers abroad, as well as the availability of assets that Nis members of the Chamber of Commerce have built over a period of more than a century. These are the things that have concerned the people of the Chamber of Commerce, but what Nišlje is insulting, is that all the Niš authorities, some of the decentralisations that existed in the years behind us, all practically shifts to Belgrade and no matter how much we talk about decentralisation, Serbia is very fast centralised and are practically all possibilities in Belgrade, not Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad and some other major centres. Without even regional development, we will not have strong and developed Serbia. Strong Belgrade has not developed Serbia. Strong centres in Serbia, strong areas, regions in Serbia -- it's a strong Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45041	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45042	By repeating the story of centralization, I think it's politicizing the whole story. I'm going to give you a very simple example, for this short time in which I can answer you. Today, a businessman from Nis, for any public authority he is to receive, because the Republic Chamber, as a legal entity, has received part of the right to realise certain business activities, has to come to Belgrade, bring the documentation, hand over to Belgrade, when it is finished and when it is notified that it is finished, it must come back to the central, again to the same place, to take, to sign and return. With the solutions we introduce, we will allow all 29 administrative districts, therefore, among other things, and Nis, every businessman from Nis to come to his office in Nis, to submit the documentation, to be processed, at different levels within the chamber system, depending on what it is and what kind of document it is needed and to be submitted there. Isn't that a concrete example of just decentralisation of the system?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45043	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45044	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I've submitted an amendment similar to the amendment that my colleague has submitted and you're just trying, since it's the same text, it's the same matter, the substance of the amendment is the same, that the maximum centralization you're doing, and you're doing it by removing powers from regional chambers of commerce, they're losing the powers they had. Furthermore, you take their giro accounts, so the jury accounts will be centralized, will be at the level of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and introduce the obligation to membership of business entities in Serbia in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. What was not up to the adoption of this law, if you remember, a few months ago we voted here that the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is giving consent to the order of driving carriers to Serbia, for a simple reason for people to join the Chamber of Commerce to pay for membership. Let's talk about getting along. You're centralizing the funds now. You are centralizing the decision-making process and you are saying it is because a Nis businessman will be easier to obtain a document that is now being issued in Belgrade. Is it easier to transfer powers to regional chambers of commerce? Why does it have to be centralised? To transfer the property of all regional chambers of commerce to be owned by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce? Well, that property is owned by a Nisaw County businessman. In article 44, you provide the possibility that the regional Chamber of Commerce does not have to approach and accept the conditions laid down by this law. Yeah, but he loses his powers and loses his membership fee. You're not giving an alternative. You bring Em into an unequal relationship with the chamber, if it is not in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce system, if it is contractual, and on the other hand, you are centralised maximum and the steering mechanism is likely to be set up here from Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45045	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45046	Those who know well and those with whom you have spoken should have told you to the end that things are in regional chambers of commerce. No regional Chamber of Commerce has had any state authority. It's legal. And now I'm going to explain why. The inability to transfer public powers to other entities has been defined by Constitutional Court Decision No 163/2011 of 23 February 2012. So what you're talking about is legally impossible in the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. And that story about losing account, about losing property, about a strict Belgrade that I don't know what to do, it's just not true. You're talking about one piece of form, I'm talking about the essence. What businesses are supposed to get at the bar, which should be served by a regional Chamber of Commerce, not by a group of three, five or ten interested people gathered around a particular regional chamber. I personally advocate the introduction of lobbying laws in our country, so that you have agencies and people who will really be lobbyists. It's a job for people like that. The chamber is one entirely different form of organization of the economy. Not a word, not one argument that you make today, in order to centralize the system, believe that I will always have one or five arguments against it, because I'm talking about the essence, not the forms that you're holding onto.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45047	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45048	And we want to talk about the essence, Mr. Minister, and the essence is next. Since we mentioned some cities, and this is not just a question and interest of the city of Nis or regional chamber of the Nis, but regional chambers of commerce of Kragujevac and all other regional chambers of commerce and even access to our country and look at what centralised is, what decentralisation is. If we have a situation that we have Serbia's Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, based in Nis, I don't know where you planned the centre of the Chamber of Commerce in another Autonomous province, whether it's Pristina or Kosovo Mitrovica, I don't know, but I think it's logical to cover the rest of Central Serbia in this amendment. Whether the headquarters or centre in the remaining two statistical regions, as the logic of the autonomous provinces and the city of Belgrade by the nature of the region, as well as every capital city of all countries in Europe, needs to be covered by the rest of central Serbia and has its headquarters in regional chambers of commerce both in Nis and in Kragujevac. Of course, and in Leskovac, according to this organization that is later mentioned in the next article, in Article 4. The point is to preserve legal subjectivity and cover the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. This way, we don't show that desire and that will. We have heard of examples, this example of shutting down, the example of centralisation, through the corporateization of the shut down of the business company "YugoEast" EPS and the large part of the steam spill. I'm telling you now about the effects, not just the psychological effect and the shut-down of administrative capacities in cities that are important for the development of the whole part of that territory. I'm also talking about practical things, about reducing the budget through the outflow of these funds and paying for bills from downtown Belgrade, where it spills out almost half a billion dinars from the Nis budget, belonging to the fact that no more salaries are paid in the southeast, in Nis itself. That will happen in the King, too, in Kragujevac and the rest of Serbia. What's going on is that it's also going on with the shut-down of regional services, media services. You did not accept these amendments to preserve regional service in both Nis and Kragujevac. It happens in many places. Here we go with the regional chamber of commerce. Well, you know, some people, businessmen have been building it for hundreds of years. One century goes on, we are now voting something that shuts down the legal subjectivity of these regional chambers of commerce. It is a question for all of us MPs, whether we will oppose such a process of centralisation and I know that many colleagues from Nis and Kragujevac have submitted amendments, which have in this direction and signed those amendments. I invite them to say their position on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45049	Thank you. Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45050	I have to do it again, and I'm gonna do it again today, no matter how many times it takes. The model you're proposing is just centralization. Dear MPs and respected citizens who know that, we in Serbia have five statistical regions. With this model that you proposed, it would mean that in Serbia we only have five organisational units, five regional chambers, which would control the system. We're entirely the opposite of that suggesting 29 plus the circuit chamber, plus the common chamber system. How can that be centralised? I don't understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45051	Thank you. Dear MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the practicers GO Chukarica, who are currently following today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. Please welcome them. Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 4th amendment together. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic. (Goran Ciric, from the post: I answered the word a minute ago. ) Replications do not How am I supposed to fix a mistake? [[Goran Ciric, from the place: Not for the replica, I use the time.]] I'll be flexible. The first next amendment to say this, here's the deal to be, please, because a lot of amendments have passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45052	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted the amendment to Article 4. I have two questions, or dilemmas. Mr Sertic replied to us that in case the contents of Article 4 were deleted. The bill, for that to mean, gentlemen, and literally erasing the chambers of commerce. That is what Minister Sertic said, and some MPs confirmed. And then I ask Minister Sertic -- on the basis of which rules now operate Serbia's Chamber of Commerce and would we, in case we don't accept this bill today, would we actually vote for not having any rule in the functioning of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which today exists, Minister Sertic? Here, I'm asking you, on the basis of what rules is it that Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is governed by Mr. Chadj today? What rules did you make when you were president of the Chamber of Commerce? We're not respected gentlemen on the naked ice, that we're moving out of nothing today, and that for the first time today, the rules on chambers of commerce are being defined. I suppose even now there are some rules that would continue to apply and how many would we erase this, according to our court, Minister Sertic, a poor bill of law. Plus, the other thing, we're talking about Article 4 right now about types of chambers of commerce and we're just asking one very precise thing, why the promoter didn't predict the possibility that there were commercial chambers of statistical regions. It is a very specific question, so why is this possibility not foreseen since many people tell us that in the event of this possibility, many economic operators will remain without a chance to compete for funds, respected gentlemen, for the money available to us from the EU? I'm terribly interested in the answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45053	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45054	You keep referring to how businessmen don't want it, how existing chambers don't want it, and I'm going to give you concrete information that you can at any moment check. No regional Chamber of Commerce currently from the province of Vojvodina wants statistical regions as a model of behaviour, because this would mean that both Subotica, and Sombor, both Kikinda and Sremska Mitrovica and Novi Sad lose their powers and move on to the province chamber. A little while ago, someone mentioned down south of Serbia. The regional Chamber of Commerce from Kragujevac also made it very clear that it is opposed to the statistical way of implementing and organising chambers of commerce. So, really, I can't figure out where you're getting all this data unless it's individually based on personal interests that were in too many years ago, and that's why we both have individual chambers and the entire chamber system found themselves in total chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45055	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45056	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, the economy has no limits, and when we talk about centralisation, there are, of course, a large number of Nis MPs here in parliament and that this topic of regionalisation is very interesting, but I will tell you that the low Chamber of Commerce covers both the pyrotic and the warm end. If you look at the statistical economic results for growth and development, let's say, the city of Vranja by the number of jobs, by how much income it gives, how much they pay in the budget, when you look at Leskovac, when you look at Pirot with your businesses, then you will see that these economic results are much higher and that there is a much greater reason for the centres of the Chamber of Commerce, for example, to be in Vranje, in Leskovac, in Piroth, rather than in Nis. So when we talk about centralization, you know how, there's always two sides to the medal. Don't always stand for centralization and priority and say it's centralisation in Belgrade, because when you look at how the south of Serbia behaves and how the economy is progressing, it's perfectly acceptable to have 29, a possibility for 29 regional chambers or districts, not to be five, or statistical districts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45057	Thank you. The word has Goran Ciric, you have 51 seconds alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45058	Here, again the arguments, it's not centralised but it's just decentralisation, and if I can figure it out, I can hardly accept Mr. Minister and you said, five regional chambers of business in statistical regions is the way to centralization, but three, only three are the way to decentralisation, and that's what you just said. Why are you resisting five chambers, instead of three, as you suggested, having legal subjectivity, but that doesn't mean they shouldn't have both Vranje and Leskovac, because you're making conflicts where there isn't one. Of course they must be represented too, they will have regional chambers of commerce, and that will define this member, because I know what amendment has been adopted and I voted for that member. I think it's important that he has the right to form these regional chambers of commerce.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45059	Thank you. You've wasted your time and your authority. So your group can only do the amendments if you're proposing. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's no reason for this many stories. It seems to me that Article 4 is quite liberal. In Article 4, you have an attitude 5 that says regional chambers of commerce can be educated for the area of one or more administrative districts. So no one's stopping administrative districts from joining up to actually build a regional Chamber of Commerce within the statistical region. This gives us the opportunity to have 29 regional chambers. It even seems to me that it's too liberally placed the whole thing. The concept of the Chamber of Commerce, which the government advocates, is mainly based on the experience of Germany and Austria. Here's a piece of information from Austria. Austria has one Chamber of Commerce and has nine regional chambers, so only nine regional chambers. Therefore, it is not necessary to go to some too many of these regional chambers of commerce, which are in fact just diversifying the whole story. But that's why Austria on the other hand has over 100 representations in countries around the world, and all of these representations are financed by the funds of chambers of commerce, and where there are fewer than three employees, even the state touches the financial resources needed for the salaries of these employees. So, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce is turned to export first and foremost. And that should also be the goal of our Chamber of Commerce. And so I realized this whole concept, to increase exports, because from exports, we want to do so in some future period from this boring market of ours, to make it to the world market, to depend on both performance and better financial results and to improve the social position of each of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45061	Thank you. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Susan Spasojevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SVM parliamentary group submitted together to Article 4 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45062	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have also submitted an amendment to article 5 of this bill. Minister Sertic replied, with little anger, if I may now notice that this happened here, although he announced that he would participate very early in the debate, he announced that our proposals are contrary to a healthy economic logic, and then Mrs Tomic also reported to support this position by Minister Sertic. Both Minister Sertic and Mrs Tomic said – well, of course, in a good business environment we should connect business entities, that it is the interest of business entities to connect. But, gentlemen, of course, it's a healthy economic logic, that the subjects connect, that sometimes individuals connect. But that connection, Mr. Sertice, must not be imposed if we follow sound economic logic. This connection should take place on the basis of a free assessment of how one economic operator can realise its interests. When an economic operator defines that some kind of connection can really make an interest, then it's okay to allow that entity to connect, and not to order him here that he has to connect, and then declare it a healthy economic logic. Dear gentlemen, we seem to have a dilemma here – do we want to focus on the market economy, which Mr Sertic always advocates on words, or do we want to slowly return to the command economy, which, for God's sake, is happening on some elements in action? Dear gentlemen, we choose between economic liberalism and epicism. I am always in our discussions here, Minister Sertic, a great advocate of economic liberalism and I am against this proposal, because it is not in that spirit prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45063	Thank you. The word has a minister, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45064	You are now telling me that there is no market economy in Germany, Austria, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Spain, etc. As economy minister, I felt that these were the most developed countries in the EU, that the engine of EU development, that citizens in their countries live very well, and now we hear from fellow MPs that there is no liberal, or market concept of economy. I didn't hear it, and I don't know, but maybe some other theory could confirm it. I'm going back to the same story, Article 5, if we delete it, so all we're talking about is full integration in Serbia into the chamber system becomes pointless because we don't have any more chambers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45065	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45066	If you see chambers of commerce as part of the market system, then you are right, but there is no one here today who doesn't think that the liberal economy is essential. The free liberal economy is what the SNS stands for, but the system of organisation of chambers of commerce, as it is imagined, is not contrary to the liberal economy. The Chamber of Commerce is just a form of association and functioning. She has nothing to do with the market directly. Within the same Chamber of Commerce, you have competitive branches, you have competition. They're all different business interests. The Chamber of Commerce is there to unite all of this, although there will be different business interests of the entities that exist within it. So, such a system of organisation of chambers of commerce does not affect the liberal and free market in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45067	Parliamentarians of the DS Group jointly submitted the amendment to Article 5. Does anyone want a word? (No) Representatives Dusan Milisavljevic and Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 5th amendment in the same text. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45068	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, you told me in your previous address that you had no information that anyone in Nis Chamber of Commerce had rebelled against this. Here, I'm showing you a document where the president of the Nis Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Dragan Kostic, writes all of what I'm saying, is the attitude of the Chamber of Commerce. This paper was sent to you, sent to the president of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, Mr. Chad. So it's just a fact. Here, that paper stands before you. If you resent me as a Nis MP for fighting for my Nis and for my Nislians, for poor southern Serbia, for poor Southeast Serbia, I think it is my right and the role of the MP to talk about my city's problems. The Serbian Parliament mainly discusses the interests of political parties. I want to talk about the interest of my city and my citizens, under Sava and Danube. Many governments have forgotten the interests of people from central, Western, southeastern Serbia. You have 40,000 unemployed people in Nis. You have a problem with poverty in Nis. You have a big problem in Nis and Southeast Serbia. That's why we urge that powers that have been for years, some crumbs that have reached Nis, such as some public service in Nis, such as this Nis Chamber of Commerce, such as the southeast that was. It's all moved to Belgrade now. Well, we don't all live in Belgrade. We want to live in Nisa. I want to live in Nisa still. So I ask you to accept this amendment and keep the powers we had in Nis. When you tell me that's not exactly what I'm talking about, I've asked you a parliamentary question that you've answered me – which of Nis's businessmen was a business delegation in Russia? How does the Serbian Chamber of Commerce take care of Nis companies? I got an answer that no one was from Nis's businessmen. It's impossible that one of Nis' businessmen couldn't have gone to Russia. I'm sorry about a little emotional speech, but I don't care. They're just watching Belgrade and Vojvodina and what about central Serbia? You're not the first one to do that. And previous ministers were a little blind...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45069	Thank you. Mr. Minister, just let us know that you can be united. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45070	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we have a diametrically opposite view of what Serbia should look like. What you've been doing for a year and a half since I've been an MP, it's the maximum centralization of everything in Serbia, absolutely everything. This is just one step towards total centralization. It's your legitimate right. You have 210 MPs or more here in this room and you can vote it. It's your policy. We don't think that's good. We think Serbia can only progress if it is decentralised. As my colleague Milisavljevic said, Serbia is not Belgrade. It's the capital, it's supposed to have a special status, it's all right, but the rest of Serbia has to develop. Since you run the business, in the town of Nis there are 300 businesses less, 200 shops closed, over 2,200 jobs less. We talked about "Vagonka", we talked about "Electron Industry". There was no way to help them. Come on, tell me, please, I'm asking myself, as says my colleague, Milisavljevic, the parliamentary question of what the government has done. You said that since 2011, in fact, not since you were in power, since 2002, half of 2012, nine billion have been invested and over 6,000 activities have been in the territory of the city of Nis. Come on, please, tell me where people do it in Nis? Come on, every one of us here who comes from Nis, let's name five names and names who got hired in the town of Nis to know, doesn't know. I'm a born Nishlia, I don't know that. It doesn't matter if he's from the Progressive Party, but he's a working Nishlia. With what you do, with maximum centralised, you say – there will be more businessmen. Yes, when notified by law, all must be members – they will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45071	You don't have time anymore. The word has Minister Zeljko Sertic, a replica of Dusan Milisavljevic's exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45072	I'm very sorry now that one part of the MPs is here, I think, my impression is such, abused by a group of people from Nis. You mentioned earlier, who was in Moscow from Nis? It's the one who signed that letter. The president of the Regional Chamber of Commerce went to Moscow on the cost of the chamber, and not having gathered the businessmen, not having organised 10, 20 or 50 businessmen to go, that's his problem. That's why we want to change the essentials, not to be told here - you're centralised us. No, gentlemen dear, what you're proposing is what -- hold the thief so I can take it. You're looking now and you're saying, see what Belgrade is doing -- it's centralizing everything, and Nis just wants local centralization. What are you talking about? No regional chamber that exists today has all declared against Nis being their center. You'll have your own administrative district, you'll have your own way of organizing in Nis, you'll have the right to include every businessman in that. Don't make other people be members of your work, because you're not capable. This team that's out there today is not capable of representing the interests of the economy. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45073	He spoke not to you, but only to Dušan Milisavljevic. The word has the People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45074	Your Honor, I don't think there's any reason for us to put things out like this with a lot of emotion. The fact that the President of Nis Chamber of Commerce was in the business delegation is correct, but I want to tell you that none of Nis's businessmen were. Mr. Dragan Kostic is not Nislija. Dragan Kostic is the director of the Free Zone in Piroth. So I ask you only: Is it a shame that as a National Messenger from Nis, I fight for the interests of Nis and the businessmen of Nisli and Nisli? I am honored to hear the voice of Nis in the congregation, and I am not ashamed. Please don't object to me for representing Nis and fighting for Nis' interests. Politics in Serbia, for 25 years, has been centralised, where the central parties opt for politics. I'm fighting for my Nis and don't deny me that right. I want to fight, and I want the Chamber of Commerce to be in Nis. What's wrong with that? Is it bad that you said the Nishis are incompetent? I don't think that's very nice of you to say. I think you should apologize to Nislim.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45075	The word is made by MP Goran Ciric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45076	Your Honor, Madam President of Parliament, I think you've injured Article 104. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party, whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the right to replication or the president of the parliamentary group. I think there were a lot of offensive expressions, compared to us members of the PG Democratic Party. Mr. Minister said we were incompetent, that we were manipulated by one of the presidents or this proposal, which we are presenting here in this amendment. I mean, it wasn't us who chose the presidents of the chamber for the last three and a half years, we didn't choose the presidents of the chambers, we couldn't influence the choice...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45077	No replica. So it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Still don't use the replica. All right, just don't use the replica. We're just going strictly to what you said in the Rules of Procedure. You want to vote? Yeah. I thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45078	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Guests and the Honorable Minister Sertic, we have also submitted the amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. I have two questions for Minister Sertic here. I'm asking the minister to answer these two questions as accurately as possible. Here's what these two questions say. If the legislator's intention, therefore the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on whose behalf Mr Sertic performed today, was to reorganise the Chamber of Commerce, then, in my understanding, it was necessary to reorganise the management structure of the chamber, business and territorial allocation of the chamber, and so to leave the organised chamber to market forces, respected gentlemen, if Mr Kovacevic is right to say that he performs on behalf of a parliamentary group that advocates market economy and economic liberalisation. None of that, Mr. Kovacevic, exists. There is no reorganisation of the management structure of the chamber, no reorganisation of jobs and territorial allocations based on some criteria that would be appropriate here, so I ask the minister, and also Mr Kovacevic and the other gentleman MPs here, why is there no such thing, so that we talk about market economy, about some elements of one policy concerning economic liberalisation? If all of this is gone, Minister Sertic, then we have confirmation that the actions of the Progressive Government are contrary to the words of the Progressive Ministers and the Progressive MPs, which means that we have a philosophy here in action -- politics over the economy, instead of a declared philosophy -- an economy in front of politics. I had to react with this number of amendments to this bill because of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45079	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45080	We agree definitely and it is a great pleasure to share the same system of values in the economy. All MPs may, for the first time in Serbian history, in this assembly of parliament, be less committed to a purely liberal economy, but commercial chambers are not part of the market and that is the difference. You have market mechanisms that regulate the functioning of the market and should be done by the Assembly. Chambers of Commerce are part of the association and they do not represent the market. The difference is only in the concept of understanding the functioning of chambers of commerce. If there was a market for chambers, then there would be what you're talking about, but at this point it's a form of association and it's being moved out of the market system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45081	Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45082	Thank you, Madam President of the Assembly. I would just like to be attached, explaining this amendment, to the previous presentation, because it is obvious that mandatory membership in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is one obligation that the state imposes on all economic operators, and that is something where it violates their freedom of association. This is the non-market impact of the State on economic operators. In this regard, we ask ourselves - how do you think the Serbian Chamber of Commerce works along with the contractual chambers of commerce that you intend to establish under Article 6. A bill of law? We believe there will be a conflict of interest and there is no normal way of functioning the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. On the one hand, mandatory membership, and on the other hand, contractual chambers of commerce, where you predict 100 businesses as the smallest possible number. Why, after all, 100? Does this mean that, for example, in a smaller environment, it's impossible, where there are no 100 entities, to form an association? So why do you restrict, therefore, the association of businessmen according to their free will to protect them in their own way, and in accordance with their best interests?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45083	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45084	Both previous MPs, who have commented, have also proposed for Article 6, respected MPs, not to amend this member, but to remove the definition of the amendment. This amendment is referring to the possibility of establishing contractual chambers of commerce. We've given 100 businessmen the right to join in with the contract, to build their own chambers of commerce and to exist. In this way there will be all these existing chambers, which today function, from the Chamber of Small, Medium Enterprises, the Green Chamber, etc. It has nothing to do with the subject you're talking about and the one you're trying to impose. In this way there will be all these existing chambers that are operating today, from the Chamber of Small and Medium Enterprises, the Green Chamber, etc. And it has nothing to do with what you're talking about and what you're trying to impose. On the other hand, it is a pleasure for us to be able to make certain moves in that companies who want to have their specific interests within Serbia's economic life can demonstrate them. But the National Chamber of Commerce, the chamber system is one special way of organizing and special weight is in our entire system. That's why it's something that we've also written this law and something that we firmly stand behind that's right and it's going to bring serious results. I'm not arguing to anyone, and I want to answer the question before - find me in a transcript where I said you're not doing your job well? And don't give me words I didn't say, I was very clear and very precise about who I thought and who I was...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45085	Minister, there was no replica. Just change it. I'm asking that we all stick to it so that one big job doesn't end, but we're having a proper discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45086	So what's for sure is that we'll look at the stenogram of course, but what's important to the ministers is that when you say, mandatory membership in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, you impose taxes and... (Zeljko Sertić, from the place: It does not say in Article 6. What are you talking about? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45087	Minister, please, it's not the custom for us to yell and throw.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45088	So our problem is that we don't see why you impose an obligation on economic operators to be members of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and to have financial obligations in relation to this. This is not in line with the market economy. It's an essential question, and the contract chambers we support. The second question is that you haven't given us enough time to talk constructively about all the laws and of course we've had very little time for amendments, but we have submitted them to the view that a good system is not proposed by this bill. We think there will be a major conflict of interest between the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the contractual chambers of commerce and that it will not work in a good way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45089	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45090	Well, we have this problem of understanding. In Austria and Germany, are the countries to which Serbia has traditionally relied in the economy in the last ten years, and will rely even more on their meaning as the EU is concerned, the market's freedom is at risk because there is such a model of the organisation of the Chamber of Commerce? So that's a key and a crucial question. In the world there are different and different models of organization of businessmen, whether it's a chamber of commerce or an association, it's undeniable. We chose the one that we think is the best Serbian, economic future, perhaps not reality, most corresponds to the good practice that has been done in Austria and Germany. Two crucial, one crucial economy, is also very strong. What doesn't fit in the model organization of chambers of commerce in Germany and Austria? That's what we want to reflect and hope that the Serbian economy in the next five, ten years will be at least as Austrian if we can't get to Germany. So, if Germany was fully suited to this model of organisation of entrepreneurs and companies and if they did not endanger freedom and the market in principle, if the Constitutional Court of Germany did not find that it jeopardises the functioning of rights and freedoms, then it is normal for us in Serbia to advocate the same model of organisation that implies the full freedom and liberalisation that exists both in Germany, Austria and Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45091	On behalf of Chapter III and Article 7 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45092	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted the amendment to Article 7. The bill and I will now read, for example, the attitude of Article 7 in order to try to focus the debate on as specific topics as possible. In Article 1(1), it states – Chambers of Commerce are entered in the register of chambers of commerce in accordance with a special law governing the registration procedure. I now have two questions for Mr Sertic and Mr Kovacevic. First of all, when it comes to the register, I did not get an answer to the question – why did the promoter not predict the possibility of compensation, not to say some obligation or something else, but the possibility of the existence of the chambers of the statistical regions. It is obviously respected, gentlemen, that some benefits can be defined from the possibility of these chambers being present. Why didn't we leave that possibility in the bill of law, gentlemen? The second question, contrary to the reasoning of the promoter and Mr Kovacevic, is now proposed solutions, so the solutions in this proposal for a law on chambers of commerce do not have a foothold in the practice of EU Member States, Mr Kovacevic. How can they not? They do not have the commercial chambers of these countries once and for all have a centuries-old tradition, this tradition implies that it is a reflection of non-state regulation, as we now again want, rather than the real needs of businessmen, traders in those countries at the appropriate historical moment. So you are wrong, Mr Kovacevic, when you are referring to the parallel practice of EU Member States, because calling for a comparative practice implies defining individual stages in the development of chambers. They have their own tradition and are never a reflection of state intervention and regulation, and here we have the elements of that. We have to act, Mrs. Gojkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45093	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45094	Rule 107(2) of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. – at the meeting of the National Assembly there is no direct address of the People's Messenger to the other People's Messenger. I know that Mr Pavić cares about up to two minutes of replication, up to two minutes of glory on RTS, and therefore calls on SNS MPs and addresses them directly, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure because you did not warn him of this manner. On the other hand, I don't know what happened during the night, from 11 last night when we finished, so by now it's 15 to 12, what happened to Mr. Pavicevic? He now advocates the economic chambers of the statistical regions, and last night he was against a pipeline that would bring gas from the businessmen...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45095	Now you've entered the replica, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45096	Here I go. To a businessman in Tutin, in Novi Pazar, in Raska...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45097	Thank you. (Zoran Babic, from the post: and in that part of Serbia. What are your businessmen gonna work with? I don't know what happened to Mr. Pavicevic. I just want us to really stick to the Rules of Procedure today, and I don't want anyone using a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I can't imagine what anyone's going to say, so react immediately, I couldn't react, but you know that for a year and a half, MPs manage to call in another name, so sometimes they do, sometimes they don't, what do I do to them. On behalf of the above members and of the 7th amendment, the MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted. On a proposal to add subtitles and new Article 7a of the amendment, MPs Aleksandar Tomic and Zoran Tomic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45098	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, above all, to thank the minister for having understood our proposal and accepted. The idea was for foreign chambers to be established as representations of chambers of commerce, the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia, but not to be a separate business entity that we have had so far to see with regional chambers of commerce and that the register of foreign chambers of commerce is being led to the APR. What's important is that we here are essentially making a full contribution to economic diplomacy that we are increasingly aware of, because in the last three years we have had a lot of discussions on the Committee on Economy on how much the function was, in fact, economic advisers within our embassies. Their results were not at an envious level, and it was mostly in favour of the individuals sitting there, not the state. Essentially, this is what we want to do by modeling other developed countries, chambers have their own representations, to run this active economic policy, especially in countries that we consider to have an export orientation and good co-operation in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45099	On behalf of Chapter IV and Article 8 of the amendment, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45100	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 8 concerning identity. When we talk about identity, gentlemen, I think it's very important, then, that we know what is the attitude of the businessmen who are supposed to participate, I suppose, in the action of that one Chamber of Commerce in the name of their business entities. And what the view of the businessmen on the Chamber of Commerce is, I think, clearly stated that after the suspension of the mandatory membership, Mr Sertic, most of the members, as the proposer himself said, here is Mr Babic to hear, meaning not I Vladimir Pavicevic, the MP of the opposition, but as the proposer says, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Sertic, Mr Cadež, who now heads the Chamber of Commerce, left the Chamber of Commerce. So, as soon as the possibility was created that people weren't members, they joined. It's some view of the businessmen about it, I think, how membership issues should be addressed in the Chamber of Commerce and whether mandatory membership should be paid. Dear gentlemen, it's a matter of identity. If we have a clear view of the businessmen as part of our practice, dear gentlemen, recorded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then what should we do? Should we follow that view of the businessmen, if we are advocating market economy, economic liberalism, or those people, we should impose some obligation, gentlemen? There is obvious contradiction in action and in what words and sentences are. I think we need to create conditions for a kind of harmony between the declared, respected gentlemen and what is action in politics and the political field. That's where our amendments are being deleted from all the members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45101	Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45102	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to ask you to exercise your right under Article 101(2). The National Assembly - President of the National Assembly can set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain opinions. I think that all MPs should consult with farmers who are gathering in front of our Assembly and that it would be useful for them to have a debate ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45103	Thank you. It's not on the agenda now, when it's done, then we'll think about the break. We are now talking about chambers of commerce, and no one has gathered in front of parliament, which does not prevent MPs from carrying out consultations to that point. On behalf of the above members and of Article 8 of the amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted the 8th amendment. The names of Head V and Article 9 were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45104	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are finally reaching that member of the bill that Minister Sertic has been waiting for since the very beginning of the debate, which is contained in Article 9. The bill we submitted the amendment to. Dear gentlemen, membership in the Chamber of Commerce is required. Obligatory membership under the draft law also implies mandatory membership. I am now asking Minister Sertic here, and here I am asking the MPs who are interested in this debate, are Minister Sertic agreeing with me when I say that the mandatory membership fee for the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is another form of parafiscal burden for business entities in Serbia? Do you agree, Minister Sertice, with me when I announce this? Do you agree, Minister Sertic, if it is a mandatory membership fee for mandatory membership, another form of parafiscal burden for business entities in Serbia, that this is a step backwards, Minister Sertic, in a reform of the business ambitious? We are exposed here to daily announcements of new steps towards reform. These reforms involve relying on the reform of the business environment, and then in the National Assembly, our most important political institution in which we should and should adopt laws, we are going to get a bill that is contrary to what is being declared daily. Here also yesterday, Mr. Sertić, Mr. Vicic is talking about abolishing parafiscal duties, which will be becoming less and more mandatory membership and mandatory membership for that membership, is it a kind of parafiscal imposition and is it a step back in reforming the business environment? I think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45105	Thank you. On behalf of the above members and Article 9 of the amendment, the MPs of the DS submitted together. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45106	Thank you. In addition to the previous note that, for the 2009 and later Chamber of Commerce Act, changes and additions, independent members, the key thing remains the obligation of membership with the availability of property, which the property laws, i.e. public property, have resolved in several. This Article 9 makes it clear that members of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce are all economic operators operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with all law. So, everybody, everyone's a different member. Whether another member pays a membership fee, this member does not essentially regulate it, but is expected, if you are a member, to imply some membership rights and obligations. What's interesting about this article is that collective members of the Chamber of Commerce can also be contract chambers. If contracted chambers are members of business entities, then this position cannot be your first position, or are all members, or not all members. Whether members who are also in the contract will join and that they are a member of the contract are not subject to this article of the law. It is also interesting to say that cooperatives are collective members of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce through cooperative alliances, that they can be associations, other organisations that carry out their activities, of course under the Cooperatives Act, and that all members of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce have equal rights and obligations. This is the spirit of the law. I understand the dilemma, and I can't tell if it's a good solution. If I were in your shoes, I'd ask for the most good in that membership in the chambers of commerce is voluntary, because it's reform. That's what we'll welcome with you, or with some other minister, because it's an imminent step, because it's the way the chambers of commerce should function. All the solutions given as examples and other societies are not comparable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45107	Thank you. Željko Sertić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45108	I will mention again that the obligation of membership in the Chamber of Commerce is national in all major EU economies, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Austria, Luxembourg, Spain, etc. But I will now read to you only one part of a very important answer to the question – is this possibly a new parafiscal imposition? Now listen well. Parafiscal charges include fees, charges, fees, compensations for payments and other costs imposed by public institutions and thus creating an unjustified financial and administrative burden on the economy, without the businesses receiving any rights or services from public institutions in return. He wrote this in his study JSD in 2012. So, gentlemen dear MPs, we in Serbia have various parafiscal burdens. We've even got a goldfish tax imposed on us. So, you have a goldfish in your apartment as an exotic animal, you are legally required to pay a fee. Can you compare that tax to membership in the Chamber of Commerce and with all the services and rights you receive and that arise from this law? Not to list a list of 400 and some cabs that exist in our country. We're trying to take one at a time. Yesterday, a strategy to combat the grey economy was promoted to include both state and non-governmental organisations and in the most serious way possible through a clear action plan we are implementing a reduction in parafiscal burdens. Membership in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is not a parafiscal impose on us or anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45109	Time. Thank you. MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 10th amendment together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45110	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted the amendment to Article 10. The proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, and I want to announce first here the satisfaction of having a good debate over all the members of this bill, and we have reached Article 10. Minister Sertic has now told us that mandatory membership membership is not a parafiscal impose, and I am then on our amendment to Article 10, which concerns the section on members of the Chamber of Commerce, I ask – and, Mr Sertic, how do you explain the idea that membership in the Chamber of Commerce implies and payment of mandatory membership? Minister Sertic, you were the president of the Chamber of Commerce, and now you're the Minister of Business in our government, how do you argue that economic operators must be members of the Chamber of Commerce? If you're saying it's not any form of parafiscal intrusion, and people who perform on behalf of businesses have to pay membership fees, how do you assess how justified it is, gentlemen? Who assessed in the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the interest of economic operators is to be members of this very Chamber of Commerce when, according to your analysis, Minister Sertic, according to the information you have confirmed, when most of these people who act and the name of the business entities, as soon as they got a chance not to pay membership fees, not to be members, decided not to be members? So your proposal is contrary to practice. I have no argument for this idea and for this attitude, and I think it's very important to hear what kind of justification and economic logic is behind the idea that was founded in this proposal for a law on chambers of commerce? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45111	Thank you. Members of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 10th amendment. On behalf of the above members and of the 11th Amendment, MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted the 11th amendment. On behalf of Chapter VI, the title of Section 1, Article 11 of the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45112	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we propose to all the MPs, here, I see now that Mr. Giric is very interested in the debate, I believe in a professional one sense, so I suggest that Mr. Giric, Mrs. Tomic and you, Mr. Sertic, today at our amendment session accept our amendment to Article 11. The bill, which, gentlemen, let me remind you of what we are discussing and what our theme is, defining the basic affairs of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Giric. I now ask two questions, Minister Sertic. Minister Sertic, question number one -- are you in agreement, Minister Sertic, that the number of activities of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, so to speak, were randomly counted, in order to somehow justify this foundation of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce? If you think they are not, Your Honor, I beg you now to explain to me how you consider them not. Because I've been reading and consulting people who are in the area, respected gentlemen, in our Economic Council, found out they are. Another question for Mr Sertic, gentlemen. Minister Sertic, do you agree that the proposed activities defined in Article 11. The draft law on chambers of commerce, which we have submitted to the amendment, have no foothold in the practice of EU Member States? So it is not true what Mr Kovacevic was talking about, who is now no longer taking part in the debate, which I consider to be a confirmation that he was wrong and that our analysis is well-founded and very precise, respected gentlemen. These are two questions for Minister Sertic on this amendment. I've prepared for each member, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45113	Thank you. Members of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 12th amendment together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45114	Dear ladies and gentlemen, if you think I'm going to get tired of being 51 members to justify our amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45115	It's all right, just for the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45116	I won't get tired, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45117	You don't have to confess to us, just tell us about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45118	But I want, Mrs. Gojkovic, sometimes to confess here. I know I don't have to, but I'm here in the company of a colleague, a colleague, when we discuss the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, so it's up to me to write a confession here, gentlemen. I am surprised that Minister Sertic is also not taking part in the debate now, as he does not answer, Mrs Gojkovic, to the questions of the opposition's MPs. Well, I have been preparing for the debate for days, prepared for 51 amendments, announced by Minister Sertic, Minister Sertic told us in principle -- I can't wait for the debate to run, and now he's giving up the debate, Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45119	Let's talk about the amendment, so I don't take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45120	Here's a question about our amendment to Article 12, and in Article 12, here's Mr. Giric to hear which one casts, in Section 1. writes – The Chamber of Commerce of Serbia may, in accordance with the statute, establish its representation abroad, if it is in the interest of its members. I ask Minister Sertic about this position, this member of the bill, Minister Sertic, will the number of tax payments be increased annually by adopting this law, Minister Sertic? (Ninoslav Girić, from the place: This is not a quiz. ) Can you answer that question for me, so that Mr. Giric, Arsic and the other gentlemen who are now getting it, instead of participating in the debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45121	You mustn't do that, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45122	I have to, because Mr. Giric throws it all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45123	No, no, he's talking to his colleagues around him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45124	Well, it's too loud to talk while I'm talking. So, Mr. Sertic, will the number of tax payments be increased annually by adopting this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45125	Thank you. Members of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party submitted the 13th amendment together. On behalf of Section II and Article 13 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45126	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this opportunity to explain my amendments without any formal intervention by the ruling coalition's MPs. We have also submitted an amendment to Article 13 of this Act, Mr Sertic, and I will answer your question which you have not answered. Minister Sertic, the number of tax payments per year by adopting this law will be increased, Minister Sertic. I've got the data here, I've prepared to discuss it. And why is that important, dear gentlemen? The increase in the number of tax payments accumulates the business of businesses, as any additional payment implies, not only the mandatory membership fee that Minister Sertic told us is not a form of parafiscal charge, but additional costs, Minister Sertic, administration, additional costs of time devoted to the processing of documentation. Here, Minister Sertice, let me ask you a question. I answered the question - will the number of tax payments increase annually? I said yes. I explained why it is not good if, Minister Sertić, we respect the elements, the criteria of the great philosophy of economic liberalism. And, instead of formal advocates of the logic of economic liberalism, the functioning of the market economy now explains why their actions are in part with their words, Minister Sertic defends his silence against our issues and our amendments, and now, Mrs Gojkovic, very specifically, as you request and insist, in relation to our amendment to Article 13. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45127	Thank you. Members of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. On behalf of Section III and Article 14 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45128	Dear ladies and gentlemen, episode by episode, I continue until our amendment to Article 51. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, and now very specific about amendments to Article 14. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. Mr. Sertic, according to this criterion of the number of taxes per year, and I treat this silence as an approval of our position, we are well behind in the countries of Central Asia and Europe, gentlemen. The average tax pay per year in Central Asia, Minister Sertic, is 19, in Europe is 17, and in us at this time 42, respected gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's imagine some of these figures. Minister Sertic, if this law is passed, the number of annual taxes in Serbia will be 54, by 12 more than it is now, and by up to 40 more than it is in Central Asia and Europe. Comparative practice, state in the region, respected gentlemen, Minister Sertic, we will pay 54 times, in Montenegro 17 times, in Croatia 19 times, in Hungary 11 times, in Estonia eight times, in Poland seven times. Well, gentlemen, are we in our institution of legislative, control and electoral, to imagine a little bit about the legislative projects proposed by the government or are we just going to follow that bell and type that voting button "yes" when the opportunity comes? I'm against that kind of practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45129	Members of the Democratic Party together submitted to the 15th amendment. The name section 4 of the 15th amendment was submitted jointly by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45130	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, here is Vice President Becic, the deputy secretary general and Mr Babic also came, and here is Mr Stojanovic. (The President, from the place, Ambassador, do not let me take away the word. Don't. Well, we all hear from Mrs. Gojkovic, this is how they wave. Dear Mr Sertic and distinguished guests and guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am very interested in hearing the answer of Minister Sertic, asking why the Government, which has put the word "reform" as a key word in its action, which binds and creates conditions for improving the economic and business and economic environment in our country, respected gentlemen, why such a government of the Republic of Serbia sends legislative projects to our National Assembly that are corrupting the business environment. Dear gentlemen, here's a concrete example, by accepting this bill, what will happen? We will have as a consequence, that the economic operators will pay the tax more times a year. Today, the situation is that these taxes are paid 42 times a year, if we accept this bill, they will pay 54 times, gentlemen. Here, I ask Mr. Babic if Mr. Sertic won't answer. Why did the government give up reform? Has Mr. Wolf got tired of reform, gentlemen? It was said in the campaign – with all its strength in reforms, and now we have a break from reforms on a concrete case of a legislative project sent to the Assembly by the Government as a proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45131	By amendment? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. Three times mentioned. He didn't call you. He said you only went into the O.R., I'll give you my word, but he just said you went into the O.R. If we put that in place, we're in trouble.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45132	Madam President, mentioning, less of my mention, but mentioning the Prime Minister and the president of the party I am proud to be given the right to replication. Just as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the Government of Aleksandra Vukic did not give up on reforms and did not tire of it, so the government of the AP Vojvodina and Bojan Pajtic did not tire of the key word it describes. She didn't get tired of thieving, she didn't get tired of crime, she didn't get tired of working, she didn't get tired of kidnapping. This is why today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and today Bojan Pajtic is not at his post. And today Bojan Pajtic is on the streets of Belgrade. And today Bojan Pajtic is on the sidewalks outside the National Assembly, the truth, outside the Kosovo entrance. And who's paying him? Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina because they pay him for it or pay him to do his job? Well, he's a man, and he doesn't know where his job is, but instead of coming in front of the National Assembly in the official AP Vojvodina car, with security paid by Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina, with all the benefits he uses, he'd better have gone to Vienna. Well, that he saw the "Hetherland" castle, so that it came between parents and children distracted in development, so that they would tell him in a face that is the key words of the DS and Bojan Pajtic's rule -- unhappiness, irresponsibility, crime, corruption, thieving. Now, it did not give up the DS with which the previous speaker was in a coalition that helped him survive and come back to this parliament and give them the opportunity to do what they do again, even from children distracted by development.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45133	Thank you. You were right, I'm sorry, I didn't hear that part. On behalf of the above members and of the 16th Amendment, the MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted. On behalf of Chapter 7 and Article 16 of the amendment, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45134	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Sertic, the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, have also submitted an amendment to Article 16. Proposal for a law concerning property. But here are the representatives of these business entities, as well as the citizens, who hear what it says, for example. in Article 16 of this proposal of the law, so if I have time to ask Mr Sertic another question on this amendment, and if there is no next amendment. The chambers of commerce with the property of a legal person have their own property. That's attitude one. Article 2 – The property of the Chamber of Commerce constitutes the right of property in movable and immovable matters, shares and actions in companies, the right of industrial property, claims and other property rights. And, position 3. Honored gentlemen - Chambers of Commerce freely manage, use and dispose of their property, in accordance with the law and founding act, or statute. This is probably one of the few members of this bill that, if it were to stand up and in another text, is not a cause for any special intervention of one MP, but when we link it to the contents of other members of this bill, gentlemen. I ask Minister Sertic, and here is Mr Babic, since I see that he is interested in the debate, whether Mr Babic is and whether Minister Sertic is in agreement when I say that this bill has done the following thing, Mr Arsic, that this Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Aleksandr Vukic, has put politics above the economy. Which means giving up economic reforms, giving up rule of law and command, respected gentlemen as a key word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45135	Thank you. On behalf of the above members and Article 17 of the amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Both Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title of Chapter 8 and Article 17 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45136	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Sertic, the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, I see that there is now particular attention from the Members of Parliament above all the SNS and about the amendments that MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted to Article 17. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. I would like to use the attention of all the MPs now to express myself, Mr Sertic, to read the contents of Article 17 of this bill. First we have section eight that bears the name - responsibility for obligations. And then there goes Article 17, which consists of two bet. In its position, one writes – chambers of commerce with legal personality, for their obligations they correspond to their entire assets, and in paragraph 2. – chambers of commerce are not responsible for the obligations of their members, and members of the Chamber of Commerce are not responsible for its obligations. I am using exactly the content of article 17 of this bill to ask Minister Sertic, a key question for today, which justifies the obligation to pay membership fees to the PKK when the actors who are at the moment when it is allowed not to be a member of the Chamber of Commerce, have decided not to pay the membership fee in large numbers to do so, to give up membership and to pay membership. We have one practice that follows, the very clear interest of these people, the subjects in whose name they appear, and now we want to legalize something that is contrary to their interests, Mr Sertic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45137	The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45138	The replica, of course, to mention the SNS. Well, you see, with this amendment, the Proposer wants to erase the view that is said - the chambers of commerce with the legal personality for their obligations correspond to their entire assets. I can understand Mr. Prime Minister of the Amendment, especially this other one who's not here today. Imagine that there was one such member in the law at the time when he received from the state a little more than 500 000 euros in incentives to raise vineyards and imagine that he had then to sign a contract guaranteeing that those 500 000 euros would indeed be directed towards the vineyard, towards the production of grapes, wine that he guaranteed with his own property. That would be great, it wouldn't damage the state, it wouldn't damage the Republic of Serbia's budget by more than half a million euros, but unfortunately it's not, so now it wants all other organs to delete something like this. I support, and the SNS supports such a bill, supports Article 17, especially in the position of 1st, that there would never be any more irregularities, such as we had, if one former prime minister, the current national MP from the state had won 500 thousand euros, guaranteed nothing, did nothing, and then spent those 500,000 euros in some magical way, by some financial slalom, it turned into apartments on Vračar, into old-timers, into overpriced jeeps, and I don't know what the state damaged, and that individual for 500 thousand euros richer. This member and this attitude prevent something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45139	Thanks, time. On behalf of the above members and of the 18th Amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted together the 18th amendment. The names of Head of the IX and Member of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45140	Dear ladies and gentlemen, that's right, Mrs. Gojkovic read this very carefully, which has the next name, I follow every letter, word, sentence, honored gentlemen, I see Mr. Dragojevic is following. He says – the relationship between the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and other bodies and organisations. We have suggested that all the views of this article be deleted from the 18th draft law. The argument of Minister Sertic and Mr Babic for not accepting our amendment is next, so he says – if we listen to Mr Pavicevic and Mr Zivkovic, they accept in other words that the content of article 18 is deleted, this would result in erasing the chambers of commerce. Now here's what Mr. Babic said. Well, you wouldn't, gentlemen. I already said that this morning about our dialogue and about our second amendment to another member of the bill. I asked Minister Sertic, but Minister Sertic did not answer me. If accepting the erasure would mean erasing the chambers of commerce, and on what basis is the Serbian Chamber of Commerce now functioning? Here, if Mr. Babic could answer that, I'd be very interested. Here, Mr. Babic, by what rules does Mrs. Gojkovic now operate the Serbian Chamber of Commerce? On the basis of what rules is the Chamber of Commerce governed by Mr Marko Cadež, under which rules did the Serbian Chamber of Commerce be governed by Mr Zeljko Sertic, a respected gentleman? These are all rhetorical issues, which reveal that if we delete this bill that we estimate is bad and we offer an argument here for our assessment and expect a counter argument, so if you convince us to change our minds and vote in favour of a good bill, then above that there is one idea that it is a bad bill, that erasing these members does not mean erasing the chambers of commerce.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45141	Thank you. On behalf of the above members of the 19th and of the 19th Amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Thank you. On behalf of Chapter X and Article 19 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45142	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on the contents of Article 19 and Chapter X of this bill now, because Chapter X bears the name - organs. Here's to reading what it says in article 19, gentlemen, because sometimes we have to focus on a monologue in our National Assembly, and that's usually the consequence of the absence of a desire for dialogue. Let's see what it says in Article 19, so it says – Serbia's Chamber of Commerce and Autonomous Chambers are managed by members through their representatives in their bodies, who are elected in a manner established by the statute, so as to ensure equal representation of the interest of the economy. When Minister Sertic tells us that in case we delete this, to erase the Chamber of Commerce, then I ask the MPs, are they informed that the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is operating today on some of the rules and that they know that there are some organs of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which would continue to function, according to existing rules, and if we do not accept this kind of innovation proposed by Mr Sertic. We cannot vote for this kind of innovation, because we have estimated that this type of innovation is a message from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that reforms are no longer the goal. If reforms, respected gentlemen, are not the goal, then that means that neither the rule of law as an unforgiving part of the reform is our goal, and if the rule of law is not our goal, then that means that we are not interested, that we are consistently respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in which Article 3 states that our basic principle is the rule of law, and that means, respected gentlemen, a fundamental reconstruction and discussion of reconstructions in the executive bodies of our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45143	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45144	Thank you, President. So I don't give pleasure to my esteemed colleague Pavicevic, so I can report after any of his pointless amendments. So, Serbia's citizens, for the hundredth time, do not know what counterpart Pavicevic is proposing to do on all the laws, otherwise he is a multi-functional MP and he understands everything. So now he understands himself in the economy, in the chambers of commerce, in all kinds of laws, and you know how, every one of his shows moves – ladies and gentlemen, respected, and there's a time and then he doesn't say anything after all. Then the question arises how do you, Mr. Pavicevic, fight for the citizens and what do you want with your performance, apologize for speaking directly to the MP, means...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45145	Give me that dilemma.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45146	First of all, the Honorable President, you little bit, I didn't want to use the Rules of Procedure, I listened very carefully to my colleague, the previous speaker, he seems to be experiencing this Assembly as some reality, and then he's doing some play here, and he's making us laugh, calling us, but this is a serious debate. We're discussing chambers of commerce today. We are discussing what was made a mistake in 2009 and today we are correcting it. We need a strong Chamber of Commerce and we know the situation of Serbia's economy. We want to do something, we want to correct all those mistakes from the past, we want to correct what the distinguished party president, in which counterpart Pavicevic, has done in the past when he was prime minister and when he asked himself something in this country. So last night I was talking about it, we have a problem dating back to the time after 2000. So, by abolishing the social accounting service, we have no control over the taxes to be paid to the state, because the control mechanism has been lifted. They came up with companies that couldn't pay that tax, they didn't have control, they didn't pay the energy, they didn't pay anything, and then they piled up the debt, and they found the solution by transferring these companies to restructuring, many of them in bankruptcy, so many debts are being accumulated, and now let's disassemble this. Let's continue to erase everything, wipe and delete, and every two minutes we're listening here to some pointless story, and the amendment reads loud and clear: delete. Of course, we do not dispute the right of the MP to submit an amendment, but if each amendment is about every law – it is deleted, so people, does it make any sense, whether the work of the MP is based and the work of the opposition to just erase something. I once said that, your fellow party president, your colleague Zoran Zivkovic wiped out 500,000 company workers. Five hundred thousand workers are on the street today, out of work. A ruined economy, privatized only by what was right. During that period, consultants made the most of their income, and there are as many consultants as you want, what we sell, I sell the house, I spend money. When I sold out everything, I don't have any money. So, people, let's get serious. Give a constructive discussion, let's talk seriously about the chamber. What kind of a chamber we need, whether we need a successful chamber, whether we need a chamber to be an initiator and a legislator, to be a critic of work in economic and social policy, to be a service of economy and employers, to simply understand today everyone sitting here in 2009 is a mistake that we of the Socialist Party of Serbia have warned even some of the Democratic Party, a respected professor. Micunovic was then opposed to such a law being passed, to move on to the principle of voluntary membership, and wherever we moved to the principle of voluntary membership, there the chambers of commerce failed. So, simply, today we have to introduce what is the principle in the environment in many developed countries in the environment, which are developed and where the more pronounced principle of compulsory membership is. Obviously, since I'm going to abuse a little bit, I'm using the right of an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, because when we talk about amendments, let's talk about the amendments specifically, and then we skip, we talk about the law. So, the law as I said in my presentation, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, when we discussed in principle. We simply have to make this law and I am glad that it is in the process and that we will have and make a chamber as necessary for Serbia as of the New Year. So don't be against everything, don't want to erase everything, it's not good. I told some colleagues last night, it's not good for you, it's a well-intentioned concept. Citizens don't recognize it as a struggle for their better lives. It's your personal promotion. You're performing performance here. You act like you're in a theater. That's not right, fellow Pavicevic. Give me some concrete suggestions. Let's see...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45147	Please, just talk to me, you know I'm not allowed by the Rules of Procedure to do what you're doing, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45148	I'm sorry, Mr. President. So, I'll end up in the end. I repeat once again that it is good that today we have a majority that rejected the bad concept, which we established in 2009. Once again, I express our position that we had at the time, that we should not move on to the principle of voluntary membership, as the Socialist Party of Serbia, and we remain on this day and we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45149	Thank you. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45150	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MP, Mr Radenkovic, resented that we MPs have submitted amendments, and he particularly resented that among the amendments submitted, there is no opportunity to accept any of them, so I would like to remind my fellow Members, Mr Radenkovic of the Socialist Party of Serbia, that we, reminding him, and by intervening the President of the National Assembly, have submitted in these years and eight months, honored gentlemen, 1,884 amendments, and of that number, here are our guests and guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as colleagues Radenkovic, accepted 162 amendments, honored gentlemen. We have been commended here by experts from Mr Antic, who is a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, a minister in this government. That we have submitted the most qualitative amendments to the draft law on mining, gentlemen, that in terms of the quality of the content of this law, we have contributed to making the laws better. Mr. Radenkovic, do you listen to colleagues from your political party...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45151	Ambassador, I'm Radenkovic now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45152	Mrs. Gojkovic, let me say one more piece of evidence of what I'm talking about. Today we are all going to testify to you too, Mrs Gojkovic, and the government has also accepted our amendment that introduces academic honesty into the law. That's what Sisif's job was. Fifteen months pushing stone up the hill and reaching to the top of the hill, honored gentlemen, without being able to go back. This is where they laughed, threw away, and today we're all going to vote for it. That's commendable, Mr. Radenkovic, not objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45153	Thank you. One intervention, we won't vote, has become an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45154	You must know the drill better than anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45155	I know a great procedure. I'm asking everyone to go back to the amendment. The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45156	What is unacceptable for the Serbian Progressive Party and what really amazes me of the amendment's proposing, as one of the more active MPs, is that he wanted to delete Article 19, but Article 4. I would like the amendment promoter to listen to me a little more carefully, because if he had read more carefully what this member means and this attitude, I believe this amendment would not have proposed. I'll tell you gentlemen, who didn't read this bill. The position of the law that the proposer wants to delete is that the authorities of the regional chambers of commerce, i.e. the business chambers of the capital, are the parliament of the businessmen. Be careful, when the amendment promoter in every address tries to protect and raise parliamentaryism, it is not responsible for the parliament of the businessmen. It is not appropriate for all businesses in the region, for all businessmen in the capital to sit in one of these rooms, to represent parliament, to agree and to decide, to debate, to make views, topics, to face their own thoughts, to come up with the best solutions, to cultivate dialogue on economic issues, about what keeps them down and what they want to improve. Now, this is what the amendment's proposing wants to delete - the Chamber of Commerce. So what's more sacred than the rule of law and the rights of the businessmen to decide in the Chamber of Business, but that's what the amendment promoter wants to delete. I believe that rather than the work of Sisif, which could not have done had it not been for the majority of the Serbian Progressive Party, it was not for the government of the Republic of Serbia, in which the Prime Minister, who signed the acceptance of the amendment, Mr Alexander Vukic. And why is that? Because the Serbian Progressive Party has no problem with academic integrity, because the Serbian Party has no problem with plagiarising and plagiarising and because of it, because we have nothing to be ashamed of or afraid of, we have accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45157	I'm asking about the chambers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45158	This is victory and parliamentaryism, but this is the victory of the Serbian Progressive Party, without which you would not be able to do the job, and here I see the amendment promoter raises his hands as a sign of surrender, I believe that this also applies to any future amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45159	Please don't spread the subject, let's talk about a concrete law. I'm sure we'll come to this topic later. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Ask MP Pavicevic. ) He has been interrupted several times, and his word has been taken away, etc. I pray that we all have the same criteria. The parliamentary group of the Democratic Party and Vladimir Pavicevic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted the 20th amendment in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45160	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I have only one sentence of one intervention to say, today I have spoken only according to the content of the amendments that we have submitted to the Members of the Bill and Mrs Gojkovic, I have never been interrupted today, because I have stuck to the agenda and spoken exclusively according to the amendments, so I ask you that this one complaint is not coming to me, but perhaps to some other Members of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45161	I'll interrupt if you don't want to talk about the amendment. Make it the first time, I'm interrupting.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45162	No, no, I'm continuing on the amendment. We have submitted an amendment to Article 20, in which it writes - elected representatives in the authorities of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce can establish a working relationship in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce for a specified period of time, for a period of time, the functions they perform in accordance with the law and the statute. In principle, we would not mind such a solution in such a thought-out member of the bill, but we have a problem when Minister Sertic does not answer our question – what is the justification for the obligation of membership in the Chamber of Commerce? Here, I once again say here, we are against the idea that all economic operators should be forced to join one, that for us, Minister Sertic, Mr Babic, means privileged chamber. The membership in the chamber in our court should be the result of an assessment of any entity, any entity engaged in our country, so that membership in the chamber can contribute to the achievement of the interest of that entity, for example. I did not hear during the debate either from Mr Sertic, nor from the MPs who participated in the debate of the counterargument of this argument. Until I hear the counterargument, I cannot think about the possibility of voting for this bill, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and honored guests and guests.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45163	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45164	Mr. Chairman, Article 106(1). Did you listen to the explanation of the amendment? I believe so. You are a long-standing MP, with the longest internship here and with the highest experience, but Article 20 of the amendment "is deleted" states: "Selected representatives in the authorities of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce can establish a working relationship in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce for a certain period of time for the duration of the function they perform in accordance with the law and statutes." Did we hear one single word of the amendment's explanation to erase this? Or do we here have MPs talking on the free topic? They say whatever they want and whatever they want. Like when you leave, the elementary school or high school, then the written assignment from the Serbian-free topic, and then you talk about whatever you want and whatever you want, from Kuline Ban and here. Please, this is a serious institution, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that someone has no idea, that someone has no reason to criticize, and wants two minutes of glory on RTS, at the Public Service, doesn't give him the right to force you to break the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to intervene. The Serbian Progressive Party is always for dialogue. We saw that Mr Sertic was also in the mood for dialogue and that argument and his argument led to the people's MPs running away. Who do you want him to have a dialogue with? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Here, with me. ) Well, they got away, so there's no way to conduct a dialogue on a free topic. (Chairman, from the post: Mr Pavicevic, please... ) There is no dialogue on what comes to your mind, to talk about nice weather outside, to talk about Bojan Pitiæ, who is not in the workplace today. Well, then we can talk about it. We can talk about it every day, because one day it's not in the workplace. And now he's here in this building, but the people of Vojvodina don't pay him for something like that, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45165	Thank you. I appreciate that remark. You know very well, all MPs, how much effort we are making as chairman to direct Mr Pavicevic on the subject, but I will try to have a result in the next amendments. The word has a minister, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45166	Mr. Babice, I've been dazzled by the shocks I've heard in the last 45 minutes. (Zoran Babic, from place: I believe.) ) While I was able to say something justifiably, while we were talking about at least some principled things, let alone concrete, at first, I could have answered and explained a thing. But how do I explain to someone who asks for the removal of everything that exists today, to erase both chambers of commerce and domestic and foreign, that property is sold out, that money no longer exists anywhere, and who knows where it would end up in such a way that they have no more businessmen to turn to, who to represent their interests, from the city, from the province, to the Republic, from not being able to participate in the making of laws that are very important to the economic system, from not being able to participate in European integrations. I'll just remind you that four days ago here in Belgrade, Mr. David McAllister, the EU's rapporteur for Serbia, praised this draft law, supported the Chamber of Commerce reform and said it was the only right path and an important pillar of economic development in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45167	Thank you. On behalf of section 1, the name subsection (a) and Article 21 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45168	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Becic, the distinguished Minister Sertic, the honored guest and guests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is one of the most extensive members of this Chamber of Commerce Bill. Instead, Mr Sertić, defining the status and jurisdiction of the Chamber of Commerce as one organ, as defined by Article 21, instead of acting as board members in a way which is also defined by this article of this Bill, we propose, Mr Sertić, that the situation and the rules on which the Chamber of Commerce is operating now and that the situation, Mr Sertić, lasts until a better bill of law appears in our National Assembly. I ask Minister Sertic here now, if these praises are coming, why was there no reorganisation of the management structure of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce? Did he say anything about Mr. McAllister or Mr. Han coming here? Mr Sertic, why was there no reorganization of the affairs and territorial distribution of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, so that, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can, on the basis of these results, judge the government's action and on the basis of the principles of ethics of responsibility, and then come to the Assembly with a proposal for a better quality law, so that we can discuss better proposals? This way, it is better, Mr Sertic, to keep it the way it is, than to change in the way you propose this proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, Mr Sertic, and honourable Members of the People. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45169	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45170	Here, we come to the essence, Mr. Becic, of the essence. Article 21, and that's what the amendment promoter has so skillfully avoided to say what he wants to abolish, the amendment promoter wants to abolish the Assembly. That's the title above article 21. – the authorities of the Chamber of Commerce, under (a) the Assembly, want to abolish that the Assembly is the highest authority of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, wants to abolish the possibility of businessmen gathering in one such room, to debate, to talk and to negotiate, to make solutions. The Assembly wants the amendment's proposer to cancel. At some point, 15 years ago, a congregation was on fire. Now evolution is, 15 years old, now they want the amendments to lift it. Please, it is against the rule of law, it is against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is against all possible principles. Because for the SNS and the arson of the Assembly, but also the abolition of the Assembly is unacceptable, we will not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45171	Thank you. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45172	With the full understanding that the minister is shocked, I am uncomfortablely surprised that the minister claims that by adopting the amendment to delete, there is nothing. The Chamber of Commerce Act is in effect. Compared to the spirit of this law, with all the shortcomings it has, it's better than this law. I'm not unpleasantly surprised, since I'm used to various MPs talking about members of the law proposed by the amendment to delete and say – what will it be? What is now in the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia, it is the Law on Chambers of Commerce. This attitude regarding the congregation does not exist in Article 14. The law on chambers of commerce. The difference is that the bill that we are said to be against determines attitudes in the area of economic development and the economic system. So, the Chamber of Commerce Assembly of Serbia will establish views in the area of economic development and the economic system. It is an inevitable sentence for the spirit of the law where mandatory membership is prescribed, where the authorities of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce are centralised and that is legitimate. There is no power in the argument that you claim that another idea of how to organize chambers of commerce is not legitimate, however shocked you are that such other ideas exist. I repeat that I am uncomfortablely surprised by the claim that if the amendments or colleagues of Pavicevic or mine were adopted, then everything would be abolished. He won't. No, it will be in force of the Chamber of Commerce Act together with independent members and with a possible proposal to amend and supplement, but in an extraordinary session, which is much better than this way to adopt the law on chambers of commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45173	Time. Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45174	With all due respect, but you weren't in the O.R., for at least half an hour. You haven't heard all the arguments your colleague made, and I've made it very clear what she's in for. On the other hand, you didn't propose to abolish the entire law. You have proposed an amendment to a member, in this particular case, 21. So we can't talk about breaking the law, we can talk about Article 21. Imagine what it would be like for us to pass the whole law without a member of the 21st century. So, exactly what I said. And just before, for each individual member in the same way, the answers were asked both questions and the demand to abolish one member at a time, so that the whole spirit of the law would be dwindled and that it would practically just get space to say something in two minutes to be seen on television. Please, again, in the idea of getting an even better text, that if we missed something somewhere or if we haven't defined it well enough, help us with concrete proposals to correct it, not to "wipe it" members, because that's why nobody gets anything, and at least the businessmen of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45175	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45176	I don't have time for a parliamentary group, if you'll give me a minute just to answer the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45177	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45178	If in 1936 there were MPs in the then-Nazi German Assembly who would suggest that the law be deleted, the Nuremberg laws that abolish the civil rights of Jews would be one of the brightest moments in the Nazi German Assembly. So that's an example of why and when... (Zoran Babic, from place: Aman! If you can't throw it away. You can be baptized, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45179	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45180	If he can do it without a throwout, since it remains completely unclear why someone is proposing to “wipe off. ” Because it's a valuable thing and it's good to understand how and when things and attitudes are important. If it is legitimate to have a different value system, then it is equally legitimate to ask for someone else's ideological value system to be deleted in the management of the chamber system. That's why we're asking him to delete himself. (Zoran Babiæ, now: Equality with Nazi Germany.) I really don't know what else to do?- I'm sorry. People’s MPs earn that they do not know what it is, and I believe you, because it is very obvious. (Zoran Babic, from the scene: We know very well that you are comparing Serbia with Nazi Germany. Shame on you! I'll react. ) The MP makes me feel ashamed and likened to Serbia. That's proof you're not listening. (Zoran Babic, from the place, warn me, and take me away from here, but I will not humiliate my land, as you do. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45181	Please, Mr. Granny. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: shame on you!) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45182	I ask you to keep your emotional attitudes to yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45183	Mrs. Komic, please, you have been given the right to a replica and I cannot prevent you from saying such things in your replica, but I ask you to take care of this high house and not do so. It's the least I expect of you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45184	I take great care of the high house.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45185	Don't worry, because this is the way you insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45186	It's just a matter of work. None of you have suggested "get deleted" and none of us have lived in Nazi Germany and won't. I'm talking to you about a parliament where you're proposing to delete the provisions of some law. It has nothing to do with current Serbia, it has to do with the idea... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Shame on you.) [[Disabled microphone.]] ) (Gordana Comić, from the place: No emotional spills. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45187	Please, Mrs. Comic, you've caused a replica, you're insulting. Take care. On behalf of subsection b) and Article 22 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45188	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Vice President, Mr Becic, the Honorable Minister Sertic and the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, have also submitted the amendment to Article 22. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce which has the title – Management Board. I'll read what it says and try to explain why I think it would be good for this amendment to be accepted. The Governing Board shall, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Rules of Procedure, be responsible for the management of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, and in Article 2 of the Management Board: prepares proposals for acts for the Assembly, implements decisions and conclusions of the Assembly, adopts general and other acts laid down in the Statute, decides on the selection of directors of regional chambers of commerce, i.e. the business chambers of the capital, and consults parliaments of regional chambers of commerce, that is to say, the business chambers of the capital, shall also carry out other tasks in accordance with this law and the Statute. We felt it would be much better if the provisions of the existing Chamber of Commerce Act, even those concerning the authorities of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, were in force. Here we have one basic argument that stems from our position that membership in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce should not be mandatory. We have argued here through several arguments and announced Minister Sertic that the arguments are in the background of our position and instead of Minister Sertic saying - I accept your argument or do not accept it, so he argues why he does not accept it, Minister Sertic, I thus interpret, by silent consent, but he does not accept and re-accept, honored gentlemen, in relation to what he says when we speak of his works.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45189	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I have more time. Don't, please, Mr. Pavicevic, it's really ugly what you're doing. On behalf of the above members and of the 22nd amendment, the MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45190	Thank you. The motion to delete Article 22 is contained at the end of the second position where it is said that the Management Board prepares proposals for acts for the Assembly, implements decisions and conclusions of the Assembly, makes general and other acts established by the Statute, decides on the selection of directors of regional chambers of commerce, i.e. the business chambers of the capital, the comma and now goes to the part which makes this member inapplicable, in addition to consultations with parliaments of regional chambers of commerce, i.e. the commercial chambers of the capital. The solution in the existing law, which concerns the board of directors, is much better and that if you really want to make this law applicable to you, then you will wipe out yourself that all these decisions are taken at consultation, because this is the source, and I have talked about it in the light of every amendment that I ask for to be deleted, this is the source of interpretation, which the decisions will regionally say are consulted, that they are not consulted, or that, with clear instructions and co-operation with the ministry, to agree with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, to remain without any doubt as it consults the parliaments of businessmen. This isn't a mediation law. This would have to be a very clear law, where the word consultation in the management board's work absolutely means nothing or means a place where abuse can be.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45191	Thank you. On behalf of subsection b) and Article 23 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45192	Ladies and gentlemen, our amendment to Article 23. The proposal for a law on chambers of commerce is, of course, an invitation to one dialogue on the content of the draft law for discussion in our National Assembly. Article 23 concerns the Supervisory Board, and it now writes that the Supervisory Board is controlling the legality of the work of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, controlling the implementation of statutes and general acts, controlling financial and material operations and fulfilling the obligations of members of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. We have announced the following to Minister Sertic in an explanation for this amendment. Here, just one sentence to single out - there is no, Minister Sertic, no legitimate economic reason for forcing economic operators to be members of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and to pay membership fees. I am now interested in hearing an argument for a different view because it is obvious that Mr Sertic believes there are legitimate economic reasons for forcing economic operators to be members of the PKS. What I would like to hear is what argument is behind this position of Minister Sertic. If I had heard that argument, I would have respected gentlemen as is the order, as it would have been appropriate to expect a reasonable man, I would have considered confronting our argument with Mr Sertic's argument and, on the basis of reason, to estimate that this argument is good, which is being defended by Minister Sertic, I would have accepted that argument of respected gentlemen. But it's also a big problem when there's no argument, but when there's a naked attitude without any supporting pillars, gentlemen. These supporting pillars are an important part of the debate in the National Assembly. They're gone. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45193	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45194	I will again report to try to explain to all those who have not read the law well, who do not understand the essence of the chamber organisation, I will just read a part of the letter sent by the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Austria, a public letter published. Among other things, he says -- I am convinced that the new organisation structure of the PKK will essentially contribute to Serbia's businesses getting a strong effective and solid representative of their interests. Let me explain something a little closer based on the experiences we had in Austria. Austria's Chamber of Commerce as the legal representative of all Austrian companies, from international concerts to entrepreneurs, can represent the entire interest of the economy in the country with special weight. A comprehensive membership allows even conflicting individual interests to be imported and harmonised. Only such a strong chamber organisation could the state stand to represent the Austrian economy abroad and support the export economy without it being at the expense of the company. Our external trade promotion system in 2015 was named the best in the world. The president of Austria's Chamber of Commerce, which has a tenfold bigger gross national product than Serbia, is a country that is very similar to the number of residents with us, but incomparably more economically developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45195	Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted the title above members and Article 23 of the amendment. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45196	Thank you. I'm not going to report for any of the amendments that are consequent, just so there's no doubt that there are amendments that appear as consequent if I'm erasing any views or I want to make the law inapplicable. This is one of those amendments. There is no dispute with the content of the amendment but it is a consequent amendment to Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45197	Thank you. On behalf of subsection g) and Article 24 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45198	Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary for Mr. Becic to explain every amendment, including the amendment to Article 24, because I promised it to Minister Sertic during our principle debate, and I am not a man who violates a word or fails to promise. So we go all the way to Article 51. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. In Article 24, we have several sentences, i.e. positions concerning the president of the PKK. Now it's for example. Mr. Marko Čadež, it used to be Mr. Sertić and here's what it says in Article 24. – The President shall represent and represent the PKK, manage and coordinate the work and perform other tasks in accordance with this law and statute. The President shall act as chairman of the Management Board and the President shall respond to the Assembly for his work. I have one argument that we have also offered to Minister Sertić in reason, which is why we believe that this article 24 should be deleted as well. This is how we told Minister Sertic if the economic operators did not join the PKK, Mr Sertic, in the period when membership was voluntary, it is a clear sign that they did not assess that there were benefits from membership or that they did not estimate that the benefits of membership were greater than the costs of membership. We just insist on offering economic reasons for this attitude. Reading the letters of Minister Sertic, in fact, is relying on political arguments. You are again offering political arguments, and we are looking for economic reasons, because economic reasons are the only ones that justify philosophy and confirm economic liberalisation and functioning market economies. They are not political ministers, Sertić, and I see that Mr Kovacevic is now in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45199	Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted the title above members and Article 24 of the amendment. On behalf of subsection d) and Article 25 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45200	Dear ladies and gentlemen, as we agreed, we are analysing the member by member, the amendment by amendment, and Mr. Becic has now said that we are discussing our amendment to article 25 of this draft law concerning the Vice President. Article 25 states – The PKK may have one or more vice-presidents elected by the Assembly on a proposal from the president. In point 2. - The Vice-President is a member of the Management Board, and the same applies to the President only as the President and Chairman of the Management Board. In point 3. – the Vice-President for his work corresponds to the Assembly and the President. We have offered an additional argument for this member. Why should it not be accepted in our National Assembly? Here's what we announced to Minister Sertic but we didn't get an answer. Minister Sertic, we have said this – if the legislator wishes to force economic operators to join the Chamber of Commerce, this means that the billmaker imposes obligations on economic operators that may be contrary to the interests of economic operators. Again we come to the same dilemma – whether a business operator should assess what his interest is or whether it is a Chamber of Commerce...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45201	Mr. Pavicevic, just explain to me what you're saying has to do with the member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45202	As it is not, we're also in the explanation...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45203	The member says - the PKK may have one or more vice-presidents who elects the Assembly on a proposal from the president. The Vice-President shall act as a member of the Management Board, the Vice-President for his work shall correspond to the Assembly and the President.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45204	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45205	What does that have to do with the words you said?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45206	Because this vice president or more of them, Mr. Becic, will be the vice president of the PKK for economic operators after coercion...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45207	Time. Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted the title above members and Article 25 of the amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45208	A member like this is inevitable when there is an idea that we have a PKK that is hierarchically set up with as much freedom as the context in Serbia will allow and that it is necessary, in law you have a detailed number of vice presidents, or one or more, and whether it will function as a board member and everything else. So, to be fully organized structurally, as if it were not the PKS, but to talk about either companies or public authorities institutions or independent and regulatory bodies. So it's a ghost, it's legitimate, and the difference between us is that we don't consider it a good solution by commercial chambers. That solution that is in the existing law on what the president is doing, we consider it better. We did not propose these amendments by wanting to fail to implement the law, we are obliged to explain the amendments to say what our assessment is that these members we are asking to delete will be produced as a consequence of economic life in Serbia. This idea will not produce good consequences, and from there it is our will to ask that the existing law remain in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45209	On behalf of subsection ð) and Article 26 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45210	Dear ladies and gentlemen, a member of the 26th Law proposal is together with other members an example of policy-making above the economy and here is to read what it says in Article 26, the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic. It writes here – Serbia's Chamber of Commerce has a secretary-general appointed by the board of directors on a proposal from the president. In the position of 2nd, which is somewhat more extensive, the secretary-general represents the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, looks after the preparation of sessions, bodies and bodies of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and on the execution of decisions and other acts of the authorities and bodies, assists the president in carrying out his duties, performs other tasks in accordance with the statute. And finally we have a third position where it writes – Secretary-General for his work responds to the board of directors and presidents. I just have one question for Mr Sertic -- why is politics set above the economy when we talk about the content of the members of the New Chamber of Commerce Bill, Mr Sertic? I remember, I don't have any stenographic notes here right now, but I remember that every time you visit the National Assembly, from the moment you were elected Minister of Economy, you always emphasized this philosophy – an economy in front of politics. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: Now a little by amendment.) It's also an amendment... And then when he comes...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45211	Mr Pavicevic, the text of the amendment is - Serbia's Chamber of Commerce has a secretary-general who, on a proposal from the president, appoints a board of directors. The secretary-general represents Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, looks after the preparation of sessions, bodies and bodies of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce on the execution of decisions and other acts of organs and bodies. It helps the president to carry out his duties, to carry out other tasks, to carry out other tasks in accordance with the statutes. The Secretary-General shall respond to the Management Board and the President for his work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45212	So politics is above the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45213	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45214	Allow me, honourable MPs, to just explain how I defend it and through this law, to claim that the economy is above politics. Anyone who had a careful chance or who wanted to read the 51st member of this bill could have accurately and precisely determined that after this law, no decision in parliament on behalf of the economy would be taken by either the state or parliament, or by the government of the Republic of Serbia, or by any state authority. It is this law that restores the competences of all decisions in the assembly, the boards of directors, the regional chambers and the places in which it is decided within the parliaments of the businessmen in each administrative district, and even when it comes to the collection of membership fees, when it comes to the obligations of others who will be held by members of each other within the Chamber of Commerce. So, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce Assembly, and we had the opportunity to define what the assembly is doing and how it was founded, says it is organised by territorial and border principles, so by both models it will be the directors of all the regions in Serbia presented in the assembly. The Assembly shall adopt the most important acts on the proposal of the working bodies of the Commission, the Management Board, etc. Well, that's the best way, the best principle we defend, the economy in front of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45215	Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted the title above the members and the 26th amendment together. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45216	Article 26 is inevitable by the spirit of this law, so it's inevitable and I'm asking her not to be gone because I don't consider this a good assessment. So, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce now has the secretary-general and the secretary-general will be the president's proposal and will be appointed by the board of directors. This is proof that when we say that the whole spirit of the new law is going to be passed with some small, hopefully at least, with observations, changes that you have one fully centralised structure that will cause more damage to the economic environment in the context of Serbia than it will benefit. It also includes the responsibilities of the Secretary-General, who is a classic list of responsibilities for any Secretary-General including associations and institutions of government and various other bodies and organisations. What I would like to ask as a rhetorical question, not doubting that the minister really believes that all this economy is above politics, has happened already with various laws, in an honest good sense I have absolutely no doubt, and I know that he has a minister of experience in the Chamber of Commerce, would he accept at any stage of his life in the future to be proposed by the Secretary General because he knows how it would be formed? B, then I have proof that there's nothing but good intentions, and that's not enough. The ethics of good intentions is never enough. We need ethics and responsibilities in the changes we propose for Serbia's economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45217	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. On behalf of Section 2 and Article 27 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Here you go, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45218	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Vice President, Mr Becic, the Honorable Minister Sertic, the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, we, as we have announced the next principle of ethics of responsibility mentioned earlier by Mrs Comic, have also submitted an amendment to article 27, which has the title – Regional Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of the Capital. In point 1 of the statement, the authorities of the regional chambers of commerce and the commercial chambers of the capital are the parliament of businessmen and directors. There, of course, was necessary to remind Minister Sertic of the question – and why the argument not to provide at least the possibility of defining these so-called. the chambers of the statistical regions in Serbia, and it is necessary to remind me, gentlemen, because these people have told us the following – that they have opportunities and only on the basis of this status to apply for pre-accession funds prepared by the EU that unless we have the opportunity to organise themselves as chambers of statistical regions that they will not be able to compete for funds, and then the consequence of accepting this bill will be the inability of some of our people who perform on behalf of some economic operators to compete for some funds. Here, on the other hand, we all keep mentioning -- missing funds, need funds, and if we can make some investments, and when we have the opportunity to do a little better in order to apply for funds, then, as far as I understand, we don't use that possibility. Here we are even legally not going to provide it and I was just wondering – why is that? If I hear a good argument, I'll respect that and accept that argument, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45219	Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go, Mr. Sertice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45220	I'll be very brief. Dear Members, you know that if you want to represent the interests of the economy and you want to transfer your experiences to the authorities of governance, then, by no means, by theory nor by law, you cannot do it in statistical regions because it would mean going to the Bureau of Statistics and complaining about why some law is bad and then the Bureau of Statistics would tell you – gentlemen dear, it has nothing to do with us, we follow the data and we don't give opinions on laws, you can't participate in making regulations, acts, you can't propose amendments to the law, etc. We have to have an organized representation of the economy in relation to the system as our state administration is organized, so, administrative districts, local self-government and the province, and that's exactly what we're talking about and what we want. Once again, we have only five statistical regions in our Republic and we have proposed 29 administrative districts and 29 administrative districts that each have its own regional chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45221	Thank you, Mr. Minister. On behalf of the member and member of the 27th amendment, National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted together. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45222	Another member who proves that we see differently the context in which this law is to be applied. It is the authorities of regional chambers of commerce and the business chamber of the capital. It is said that the authorities of regional chambers of commerce and the Chamber of Commerce are the capital: the business parliament and the director, elected according to both this law and the Statute of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Why do I say there's an obvious difference here? Because we're asking for a member like this to be erased and because the argument is that he remains that the Chamber of Commerce will be arranged as we have the territorial order of the state. So, to the districts, to the capital and to in this case one province. And it's an amendment to the existing law, but that's understood. We see in this the growth of what is politically chosen functions and economic environments, and you do not see. This is the moment I wish I were wrong. I would very much like to be wrong when the organisation takes place that you have no growth, growth, political integration and economics. Unfortunately, I think we'll be right with this argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45223	Thank you. On behalf of Section III and Article 28 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. He's got a word for it. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45224	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I now highly appreciate Mr. Zeljko Sertic's participation in the debate, as a kind of drowsiness occurred during one period, but we are now re-engaged to answer the questions of the MPs. Article 28 bears the name - Contracting Chamber bodies, which states: ‘Contracting chambers shall have bodies established by a founding act or statute. “ That, Minister Sertić, is fine, but two questions remain to be answered. Not just those two, but these two. The first question, gentlemen, may we hear today the answer to this question – why was there no reorganisation of the management structure when we are talking here in this article about the bodies of the contract chambers? I had to add this to make Mr. Becic confident that I was talking about the amendment, seeing as he's been following with terrible attention to take the opportunity to turn off the microphone immediately when he thinks it might have gone a little further. Another question I would like to ask Mr Sertic, a very good one, so amendments to Article 28. – what about the idea of reorganising jobs and territorial deployment? I felt that these two things could be done and served as an announcement of a reform procedure through the content of legislative projects coming into the National Assembly. I then, Mr. Becic, when I see that these previous things are missing, I doubt, in particular, the value of the legislative projects, and when I read them, and the content of Article 28, I just made sure that my suspicion was justified. Here, now I am waiting for Mr Sertic to answer these two questions which I specifically prepared for the amendment to Article 28. It's a bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45225	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. On behalf of the members and of the 28th Amendment, the MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group together submitted. Thank you. On behalf of Chapter XI, the name section 1 and Article 29 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. He's got a word for it. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45226	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Article 29 bears the name - Court of Honor. Of course, when a court of honor is mentioned, my first association today is academic honesty. Congratulation is usually one thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45227	Leave your presentation for that bill. Please, you have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45228	It's just an association, but it's good, I think, to remind ourselves here what it says about court of honor. Here, let's see. He says – In the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and the commercial chambers of autonomous provinces, the court of honor is educated. Court of Honor departments of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce can be educated in regional chambers of commerce, i.e. the capital's Chamber of Commerce. Be careful further – The Court of Honor can be educated in contractual chambers of commerce. The Court of Honor decides in cases of violation of good business practices and business morality. There's a note that's important to me. I often hear here and in the debates of the MPs to be tried on the basis of an assessment of what a man's intention is to perform in the name of some subjects. It's very important, I think, when we speak in a political institution to assess what the consequences of an action are. We can't, gentlemen, get into people's heads, so we know what a man's intention is, but we can interpret and predict the consequences. For example, this content of the Chamber of Commerce Bills also has political consequences, and these political consequences concern now the content of the member we are approaching, Mr Sertic, which is a member of 32 who is returning us back to the question of membership through the issue of financing the Chamber of Commerce. I can't wait to see Article 32 again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45229	Thank you. On behalf of the above members and of the 29th amendment, MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45230	Thank you. This is one of the members that we think is a better solution in the existing law, which shows what a miracle language is. So, the court of honor, the key position is the fourth position, deciding in cases of violation of good business practices and business morality. The existing law states that this position, i.e. in two positions, is that the Court of Honor decides on violations of good business practices, violations of the Single Market and monopolistic actions on the market. The Court of Honor shall also decide on the non-compliance of members of the Chamber's decision. This is a much better solution. This is, how can I tell you, a more chamber solution than this is mentioned. But what is stated in the court of honor, against which I am, is inevitable if you, looking at the existing law, are now, instead of citing regional chambers, citing the name of the province, you say – regionally instead of the bodies that are defined by the existing ones, so that they grow up with similar bodies throughout the country. Then it's inevitable that you're losing your reason for disrupting the single market and monoplotistic behavior. I know that an argument can be -- some other laws regulate monopolitical behavior. It's never a good enough argument, but it's up to me to explain to you why I think an existing solution is better than what you're proposing and in court of honor. I would accept arbitration instead of external trade arbitration if it were better written, that's the next member, but I think you can regulate the amendment or internal regulations of the Chamber of Commerce to expand what it is the court of honor decides.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45231	Thank you. On behalf of Section II and Article 30 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45232	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted the amendment to Article 30. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce concerning arbitration. This member consists of five views of Article 30, which reads – Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is educated in arbitration of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and in Section 2. – Serbia's Chamber of Commerce arbitration decides, calms and mediates when its jurisdiction is agreed in economic disputes between domestic and/or foreign operators. I have one question here for Minister Sertic, in support of our argument and amendment to Article 30. It's a bill of law. Is the minister in agreement with our assessment that in the event of the adoption of both this member and the bill, the total number of tax payments will be increased annually from 42 to 54? And I'm very interested in Minister Sertic's opinion on whether it will increase the number of payments...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45233	MP, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45234	About arbitration.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45235	There's no such thing as an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45236	Here, Section 3. – Serbia's Chamber of Commerce arbitration is independent and independent in its work, and after that – Serbia's Chamber of Commerce arbitration decision is final and executive. There's one more attitude, so I don't read.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45237	Don't read, I have a text.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45238	It's about the economic and business environment, everything that we're editing with this bill. I just wanted the minister to explain whether the consequence of this article in this bill is an increase in the number of tax payments per year and whether it, Mrs Gojkovic, is the opposite...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45239	I can't let that happen because it doesn't apply to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45240	... the declared idea of improving the conditions of a business and business environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45241	Thank you. On behalf of the above members and of the 30th Amendment, MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title of Chapter XII and Article 31 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45242	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a member who precedes one of the most important members and heads who are fighting funding. The entire article of the 32nd is dedicated to funding, and Article 31 bears the name of general acts and says the following – Serbia's Chamber of Commerce and Chambers of Commerce have statutes, and regional chambers of commerce and the main work chamber have a decision on education. We now have the position of Article 2 of the 31st, which is somewhat larger, there are not many points very and easily complex sentences, so I will not read it now, so I will move to Section 3, 4 and 5 of the Statute of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as well as in a voice or on the website of the Chamber of Commerce, the position of the 5th Statutes of Contracting Chambers of Commerce shall be published in their vote or on the website of the Chamber of Commerce and the position of the 5th General Acts of Contracting Chambers of Commerce must be in accordance with the Statute. There is once again the importance of paying the annual tax, because statistically we will probably be among the worst in the region, Europe and the world. Here, in Montenegro the number of tax payments per year 17, Croatia 19, Hungary 11, Estonia 8, Poland 7, with us now 42, and when we change the bill, the existing rules will be 54. Average Central Asia 19, now average us 42, and after law 54. The numbers in the economy are very important, in politics they don't have to be the most important thing, but when we talk about economic criteria, then it's very important that we respect the figures of respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45243	On behalf of the above members and of the 31st Amendment, the MP group DS submitted. Members Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title of Chapter 13 and Article 32 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45244	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are now returning to the central issue of this proposal of the law on chambers of commerce, and this central issue is also defined by the name of the head, which is – financing. It says - funds for the work of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce are provided from membership fees, compensation for services from other sources under the law. I've said it several times today, but it's necessary, I think, once again, that we are applicants of the amendment and to the Article 32 of this bill against the idea of all economic operators being forced to join one, that means a privileged chamber to us. The chamber membership in our court should be the result of an assessment by the economic operator that membership in the chamber can contribute to the achievement of the entity's interest, for example, or the result of its assessment that the benefits from membership in the Chamber of Commerce outweigh the costs of membership in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. We believe that eradicating this member with eradicating all other members would bring back the proposings, in this case Minister Sertic and the complete government of the Republic of Serbia in this composition, to reflect on which economic logic they wish to base in the policies they are implementing. The economic logic that has been declared is the economy above politics. The logic of politics is beyond the economy, and we believe that this gap cannot provide good consequences for the citizens of our Republic, even if it chooses that other logic, but only that we know what logic is respected by gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45245	Thank you. On behalf of the above members and of the 32nd Amendment, MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Thank you. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45246	The Honorable Minister, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so I have submitted an amendment to Article 32, which provides for voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce. What we are discussing today is precisely this mandatory membership of Mr. Minister, if you can, is a new parafiscal imposition. This is what the businessmen agree on, and yesterday Mr. Vukic, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, spoke about that the government will watch in the coming period to lift most of the parafiscal burdens, and we are having a debate today and we have a bill that provides for the introduction of a new pre-fiscal charge. It's similar to what the agency is talking about, and we have a new office in this set that we're discussing. What is certain is that the business of businesses in Serbia will be worsened by compulsory commitment and membership fees for the Chamber of Commerce, and Serbia's position will worsen when it comes to the World Bank's lists of business conditions and this will deteriorate in parallel if we look at the example of Croatia for four places, so we will fall by four places, we will fall 15 places on the list of tax charges in our country. What is particularly worrying about the businessmen, Mr Sertic, is that it is not defined by the legal proposal how much membership it will be, but will be subsequently determined by the Assembly. Based on what? Based on what criteria? Why isn't something included in the legal proposal to make at least a little predictability for businessmen. This way they are exposed to new intrusions without any need. You know, you say it will reform itself, it is, but today the businessmen of this service that the Chamber of Commerce is just planning to talk about, these services get from professional agencies, and they pay serious sums of money for it. I think the Chamber of Commerce would get a lot more if it were to modernize itself, with voluntary membership fees. I think those services would pay more to businessmen if they were quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45247	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45248	I am sorry that some MPs comment again on the things that I said at the beginning, not only in today's debate on amendments, but also in the debate in principle, but I will repeat and read once again the very important definition of parafiscal burdens – the Parfiscal burdens include taxes, charges, charges and so on – and thus create an unwarranted financial and administrative overload of the economy, and that businesses in return do not receive any rights or services from public institutions, from USAID, 2012. So the membership fee in the chamber certainly can't be anywhere in the world a matter of imposition and something that's in that practice. Another argument that I want to tell you, you said there is no criterion on which to make, and before that, I have to point out very clearly in the law, that neither the Government of the Republic of Serbia nor the Republic of Serbia nor any state body will decide on the level of membership, but just the businessmen themselves who will be represented in the Assembly under the territorial and border principle. In Article 32, it writes well – The height of the single membership fee, the basis and the rate for the calculation, so there are a few words – will determine the Assembly by taking care of the economic strength of members of equal regional development with the application of the principle of solidarity among members and respect for the principle of rationality and economicism in the operation of the PKS. These are the general principles very important based on which, when you put them into law, they have to be respected. On the third side of today's system, you today, if you have a company in Subotica, to pay a hundred dinars for example to the Subotic chamber, a hundred dinars to the province chamber and a hundred dinars to the republican chamber, it will no longer be so, it will be a unique membership fee.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45249	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45250	Just to be clear, Mr. Minister, the proposal is to make the Chamber of Commerce more functional, to provide good services. You can charge the businessman a favor and they would pay for the services themselves, if it were good enough. They are now paying the agencies enormous sums because they receive credits and laws and receive all the regulations they need. They pay the agencies because the Chamber of Commerce doesn't provide that service and that support. Let's change that state side first, the state structure and then see what can be charged. That's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45251	Dear Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3, I would like to inform you that the Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. On behalf of Chapter XIV. and member of the 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45252	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Sertic, the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 33 of this proposal of the law concerning financial reports, business books and revisions. In Article 1(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: writes – the Chamber of Commerce runs business books, makes up financial reports and is subject to audits of financial reports in accordance with accounting and audit regulations. In principle, I wouldn't mind if the contents of a member like this were in the Chamber of Commerce Act, but against imposing an obligation on economic operators, which may be contrary to their interests. So, when we think about what makes everything the contents of this bill, there is no dilemma that there are some members in which there are formulated sentences that are good, which show some good solutions, but these members are also returning us to those problematic points, which are why we felt that amendments that we would try to change the text ourselves, we cannot fix this bill, and since we have concluded this, then the strategy was to write the amendments is deleted, because we found that there was no idea that there was no change in this attitude regarding imposing an obligation on business entities that could be opposed to their interests. I, of course, studied a little bit and beyond, and here's Mrs. Gojkovic, to see Minister Sertic, which is what I'm all about here, a little bit of a history, so we'll deal with the end of the debate a little bit, to see how the establishment of commercial committees has been going, how the development of the Chamber of Commerce has been done, and to compare whether there have ever been better solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45253	Thank you. Members and members of the 33rd Amendment were jointly appointed by MPs of the Democratic Party. The 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by the parliamentary groups Boris Tadic, SDS. In the name of Chapter XV. and member of the 34th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Rejoice me once.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45254	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Sertic, the Honored Guests and Guests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, today is the action of the National Assembly president in our National Assembly, proof that we are discussing the content of the amendments to the proposals of the members of this law. The evidence, I say, is that, Mrs Gojkovic, she never turned the microphone off once, for example. to me, she interrupted me in my intention to explain one of my amendments, and now, on account of our amendment to article 34, I would like to return a little of Minister Sertic to history. I have here, Mrs. Gojkovic, that's reading literature on article 34, says -- one of the first achievements of the proposals previously put forward here, was the establishment of a trade committee in Belgrade. Not a full year after this document, Knez Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, with the agreement of the Soviets, brought a more organised trade committee in Belgrade on February 28th 1857. I am now deeply interested, gentlemen, thank you, whether in the Government of Serbia, I am not speaking specifically to this ministry right now, there is one orientation that when we propose legislative projects, to do a little bit of history, gentlemen, to see what our tradition is, so when we call for parallel practice in Austria, Germany, in some other European countries, that we know that there is something that is part of our tradition, respected gentlemen, and that part of that tradition should be used when we write legislative projects for our National Assembly, Mrs Milosevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45255	Ambassador Babic
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45256	Article 106(1), before fellow Pavicevic moves on to geography and biology, I would ask you to use these two minutes for amendments and for the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, and for the rest of the cases, to leave it for basic, secondary and higher education.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45257	The MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to the title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment. In the name of Chapter XVI. and member of the 35th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45258	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is the order that we often say in the National Assembly that we treat as a central political institution – the sanctuary of political life to stick to the words given. That means, gentlemen, that if we said that we would discuss every amendment to each member, that we should do so and show that we stick to the words. Thus, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I submitted the amendment to the member, here is Mr Babic to hear, 35 proposals of the law on chambers of commerce. In article 35, since I was suggested, let me now direct the MPs to what is written in the Members of the Bill, then let me read what it says. It says – in point 1 to achieve and protect its interests, and to improve the economic position of entrepreneurs, as well as to consider and address issues of common interest, entrepreneurs are organised into general associations of entrepreneurs. There would be no dilemma, gentlemen, about the content of this attitude, only that it did not happen to impose obligations on economic operators that may be opposed to their interests. Then I return to the same thing, gentlemen, to the same dilemma. If we focus on economic liberalisation, on creating conditions for a functioning market economy, why are we legislating elements that are contrary to such definition. Then it's just acting contrary to the principle of ethics responsibility. That's exactly what's being done against what's promised, gentlemen. And when we act contrary to the promises made, it is expected that such actions in the elections are sanctioned, and that those who do not keep the words given are finally and replaced when the order comes and for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45259	The MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to the title above Articles 35 and 35 of the amendment. Members of the Democratic Party and Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 36th amendment in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45260	I've already been given my word, shall I continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45261	No, you didn't sign up, so I'll move on to the next one. Members of the Democratic Party and Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together to the 37th amendment in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic and the Honorable Minister Sertic, the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, have also submitted an amendment to Article 37. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. That amendment, gentlemen, to be heard once more, is deleted. We have submitted 51 amendments, which are said to be deleted, because we have estimated that one legislative project that we are assessing is bad, irreparable, we cannot change other amendments except amendments - is deleted, in order to try to adjudicate this legislative project. Today, during the debate, gentlemen, but perhaps something has changed about our amendment to Article 37, I have not heard a convincing argument which would have brought down the argument that we have offered through our amendments and against this legislative project. Mr Sertic participated in the debate, offered some answers. People's MPs, above all SNS, and Mr Babic and Mr Kovacevic, and Mr Antić, I listened carefully, recorded, respected gentlemen, there must have been professional instructions, but I didn't get, for me at least satisfactory answers based on which I could change my attitude and say, for example. People's MPs here or our guests and guests from the government, that it is possible to vote in a voting day and vote in favour of this legislative project. I hope that by the end of the debate, which means another 14 amendments, perhaps the MPs of the majority will make better use of this time that we have in our amendment debate today. Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the scene: Stop him, and can we at least talk about one amendment? Stop this tirada. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45263	I can't interrupt him because I don't know what anyone would say to - delete. There. I can't stop him. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted to the 38th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45264	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Sertic and the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry. We submitted the amendment to Article 38, and Minister Sertic, I heard it, suggested that not every amendment should be explained, and now it is suggested by MP Zoran Babic. If Mr Sertic or Mr Babic, kindly ask that we now round this amendment debate over our amendments, I can of course think about it, even if I accept this proposal, but otherwise, honored gentlemen, I cannot break the word given and now interrupt the interpretation of my amendments because someone on behalf of the government or the progressive majority does not like to listen... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45265	Now I have to turn it off. I interrupted you. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted to the 39th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45266	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Sertic and, of course, respected guests and guests of the Ministry, since there was no request for an end to this debate, I will now explain our amendment to Article 39. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. Perhaps Mr. Martinovic will make that request, we'll see. In Article 39, it writes – to bring common interests into line and to propose measures to improve business conditions and the economic situation of entrepreneurs, in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the parliament of entrepreneurs can be educated in accordance with the statute. Minister Sertric, if we were to exempt this member from what is a key problem in this bill that you have sent, there might be no reason for this many distant views, and probably there are a number of sentences that we could in a context that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45267	So, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce Assembly determines the number and composition, as well as the way members of parliament are elected by entrepreneurs in accordance with the statute.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45268	That's the next attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45269	So there's no hard feelings.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45270	That's the next attitude. Says the Chamber of Commerce Assembly, determines the number and composition, as well as the way members of parliament are elected by entrepreneurs, in accordance with the statutes. And I'm Mrs. Gojkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45271	What's to erase?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45272	I've just explained the detachment of attitude 1 and explained to Minister Sertić why I think erasing is necessary, though, for example, I have apparently written sentences here. Someone put the text together and put it in the right place and dots and dots and good words or sentences, but when it looks at itself, we can't accept this because we have objections to the back of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45273	Thank you. On behalf of Glava XVII and member of the 40th amendment, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. It's about erasing the public's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45274	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Sertić and distinguished guests and guests from the Ministry, Article 40, our President of the Assembly is right, bearing the title – public work. Of course I'm not against the public work of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, of course I'm not. But when it contains a member of the 40th, in whose first position it writes - the work of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, I link you to imposing membership obligations and the obligation to pay membership fees on business entities, and then Mrs Gojkovic, I want to tell Mr Sertic that he is fundamentally, in approach, preparing this bill. Otherwise, if we eliminated that initial obstacle, these other things in article 40 would be fine. Here's what it says -- the public of the work of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is being realized in accordance with this law and the statute. Then he adds -- the public of the work of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, is provided in the following way, and then point 1, point 2, point 3, point 4, point 5, point 6, until new Chapter XVIII controls the implementation of law and Article 41 is arranged. Since I have explained why this is unacceptable to us, I ask Minister Sertic to reconsider this amendment once more and all amendments submitted to the 51 members of this bill, in order to prevent the adverse consequences of replacing a not-so-good, bad or worse proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45275	On behalf of the members and members of the 40th Amendment, MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanovic, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted their name. No one's answering for a word. Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party. The names of Head of the XVIII and Member of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45276	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that Minister Sertic be content of Article 41. The proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, and contained in Article 41, reads as follows: the supervision of the application of this law is carried out by the Ministry of Business Affairs; it deletes, due to the arguments we have offered in written form of reasoning, and also today during the debate on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45277	Both Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted to the title above the members and members of the 41st amendment. On behalf of the XIX head and member of the 42nd amendment, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45278	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I propose that Minister Sertic, on the basis of the argument we have made in the explanation given to him in the written version, and today during the debate at our session of the National Assembly, delete the contents of Article 42. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce and all other members of this legislative project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45279	On behalf of the members and members of the 42nd amendment, Members Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic together. No one's answering for a word. National MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Zoran Babic have jointly tabled an amendment suggesting that a new member of 42a be added after article 42a. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and Natasa Vukovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45280	Dear ladies and gentlemen, since Mr Babic insists on finding out what we propose to delete by Article 43 of the amendment to Article 43. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, I'll read what we propose to delete. We propose to delete Article 43, which reads like this – Members of the Assembly of the Administrative and Supervisory Committee; it seems to me that we still have one written place of surplus – presidents, vice-presidents and general secretaries of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and the chambers of the autonomous provinces, remain members of these bodies, i.e. in positions until the election of new ones. We believe that our argument to the government was very precise and clear, that we argued very well, that we added further arguments to that argument during the amendment debate today, and my expectation is that even if Mr Babic will vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45281	The MPs of the Democratic Party, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 44th amendment in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45282	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted the amendment to Article 44. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, which is a slightly larger member. Mr. Sertic certainly knows that, probably the whole bill is in his head, from member to member, so there is no need for me to remind him of this, but I couldn't in two minutes read to hear for example Mr. Babic or Mr. Martinovic what we suggest to delete or Mr. Jovicic, for example, who included us here in the debate. I then propose, Minister Sertic, that on the basis of the arguments we have sent to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and on the basis of the arguments we have offered today during the amendment session of our National Assembly, accept our amendment to Article 44, as well as all the remaining amendments, and there are 51 amendments to the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. Of course, our key argument concerns Article 32, Minister Sertic, who is predicted to be a member of the Chamber of Commerce to be mandatory, then must pay and membership, and that we know that economic operators or some people in their names have declared that this is not appropriate, respected gentlemen. And when they had the chance to decide freely whether to be members, those people decided not to be members, Mr. Babici, because they estimated that membership fees outweigh the benefits they could benefit from membership. Well, that's what the businessmen said, showed their actions to respected gentlemen. Now we're clashing with the clearly defined interest of these... (Alexander Martinovic, from the places: Which businessmen? ) Well, Mr. Sertic, Mr. Martinovic, wrote it in an explanation. It's part of his explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45283	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45284	I, Madam President, have been diligently doing my job, reading a lot, and there have been amendments proposed by colleagues Zivkovic and Pavicevic. Since from the explanations we get orally here we get nothing, little history, little geography, a little wave of hand, one and the other, but no argument, I thought a much better argument in writing was in the explanation for accepting this amendment. I will now read to you, for those MPs, for the public who had no insight into the reasons and amendments proposed by colleagues Zivkovic and Pavicevic. The explanation for the acceptance of this amendment reads – this amendment has been submitted in order to comply with the previous amendment. I then come to the previous amendment, and then the previous amendment says - this amendment has been submitted for compliance with the previous amendment. Well, I'm back a little further ahead, and for the next explanation -- this amendment has been submitted to bring the amendment in line with the previous amendment. What is this, Twin Pix? Well, that looks like the explanation of these amendments -- delete, delete, delete. What's this all about? And look, it's a series of amendments. These are series of amendments in which only calls for an explanation from the previous, and an explanation from the previous, and so on in a circle. This has nothing to do with history, this has nothing to do with geography, this has nothing to do with parliamentaryism. This only has to do with the mental harassment that we and those people who watch are transferring the National Assembly, and most of all calling for businessmen, calling for businessmen, and if we know that Mr Pavicevic has left Kokus, an informal parliamentary group of MPs from all political parties, who is engaged in dialogue with businessmen, I don't know where he met those businessmen? Maybe some winemakers' cocktails, maybe some winemakers' cocktails? I don't know where, but for these reasons, such fundamentally done explanations, fundamentally made amendments and even more fundamental explanations, where it calls for an explanation from the previous one, which is the same as the one from the previous one, and that's all the same with the one from the previous one, I think it shows one inconclusiveness and more concern about congregation statistics, about how much anyone will take this pay phone, but it's far from good intentions and beyond any quality proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45285	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45286	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Babic has just said that MPs who submit amendments are mentally harassing other MPs. I think it's a 107. The Rules of Procedure prohibits it from speaking in such a way about MPs who submit amendments, as well as other members of the Rules of Procedure which regulate the right of Members of Parliament, in the extreme and obligation of Members of Parliament to submit amendments in situations where they consider that the legislative proposals that come before us are not of sufficient quality. I would like to draw his attention to the arguments that the Government of the Republic of Serbia gives in the opinion that it delivers to us why amendments are not accepted...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45287	Okay, that's a replica thing, and you didn't ask for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45288	... Like what Mr. Babic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45289	Thank you. I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, because you have now convinced and changed the context of what Ambassador Babic said. So you didn't quote, you convinced. He didn't say that. Are we voting? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. Yes. Members of the 45th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and, behold, I will read the names, although it is not according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ciric, but you are asking me to read the names, so you will try to find an exact member of the Rules of Procedure, I have been working only by Business, especially since yesterday, Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Comić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic. You're nowhere under this law, so I don't have to read. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45290	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have suggested that Article 45, as the president of the National Assembly has said, be deleted. We have explained, as Mr Babic said, this amendment has been submitted to comply with the previous amendment, it has been previously submitted for compliance with the previous and up to Article 1. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, in which there is a fundamental explanation, gentlemen. Well, since it wasn't read, here's to read. It won't stop in two minutes, gentlemen. It is said that by adopting the proposed Chamber of Commerce Act, all economic operators would be forced to be members of a privileged Serbian Chamber of Commerce, regardless of the extent to which membership in the Chamber of Commerce would contribute to the achievement of their interests. Then the argument goes forward – Serbia's Chamber of Commerce would be legally established as a centrally privileged Chamber of Commerce, which is a proposal that does not arise, to be heard, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, not from tradition, nor from the current needs of the Serbian economy. This is just the first paragraph of our argument. The second paragraph follows, and the third paragraph, and we have a reason for Article 3, and for Article 9, and for many members, gentlemen. And when we focus on tradition, then I suggest, Mrs Gojkovic, that we read as much as possible in the period of law preparation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45291	Article 45. - It's wiped out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45292	Yeah, I just explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45293	You didn't explain anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45294	Yes, Mrs. Gojkovic, here are the SNS MPs who confirm that I have explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45295	Thank you. So the provocations don't pass today. They submitted to the 46th amendment in the same text by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, because they are not members of any parliamentary group, and MPs of the DS group. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45296	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President, I now explain to you the amendment to Article 46. I dedicate this amendment to you. Our argument for Article 46, which reads "is deleted", here, Mrs Gojkovic – this amendment has been submitted for compliance with the previous amendment. The amendment to the previous article has the same explanation. Mrs. Gojkovic, by the logic of things, we return to the explanation of Article 1. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45297	No, no, not at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45298	That's an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45299	"Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia No. 65/01, 36/09/99 and 99/1 – Second Law. It can't even be erased.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45300	You got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45301	No, that's the status quo.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45302	If the minister decides to delete all previous members...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45303	To erase the previous laws?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45304	Not the previous solutions to the law. We have the Law on Chambers of Commerce, which would be in effect and in case Minister Sertic accepts all of our amendments "is deleted". Mrs. Gojkovic, here's a key argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45305	Why Article 46?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45306	Mrs Gojkovic, Minister Sertić, we have already been accepted here by the amendments "expunge". Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic accepted two amendments that read "expunge", Mr. Sertic. You wouldn’t be a pioneer if you accepted one or more of our amendments “be gone. ” Mrs Tabakovic was in late December 2014...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45307	MP, Serbia's legal order would be deleted, according to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45308	Mrs. Gojkovic, you now want to direct me out of the agenda. I, as a folk MP, who strictly adheres to the Rules of Procedure, am talking about the agenda point until the last second, Mrs Gojkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45309	Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 47th amendment. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45310	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment to Article 47 I dedicate to all MPs from the ruling coalition, who are interested in hearing what we propose to delete in this proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. Dear gentlemen, when it comes to Article 47, that is five views, which we might not have deleted if the basic logic of this bill were to be consistent with what is the system of ideas, beliefs, values and opinions formally advocated by this government. When we see that the actions of a government are contrary to what has been formally said, as an idea system, a belief, the values of opinion in politics, then it is necessary, gentlemen, that we act this way. I hope that none of the guests or guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who are here today, will at any time be any of our critics, objections or remarks to experience it personally. This is a political institution. We here exchange arguments that arise from different systems, ideas, beliefs, values and opinions. (Zoran Babic, from Place: Amendment. ) So, all five views, here's Mr. Babic wants to hear it, Article 47, we suggest that it be deleted. We have also offered an explanation for the erasure in written form, sent to the Government and announced that the amendment to Article 47 has been submitted in order to comply with the previous amendment, previously with the previous amendment, the previous one with the previous and all such respects, to Article 1 until the amendment to Article 3 and to the amendment to Article 9, which contains the basic explanation of our amendments, "delegates", respected gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Arsenović, you are the only one among the presidents strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45311	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP, Jovana Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45312	Thank you, Your Honor. Given that you have now continued to chair this session, I would like to draw your attention to what we have tried to draw attention to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maja Gojkovic, which is to draw attention to the absurdity of what she just said. We want all the signatories of the amendment to be read by name and last name, and the absurd is that some MPs of the Democratic Party are not the signatories of this amendment, so you have called us all and given us the right to speak according to this amendment, although I am speaking again, we are not signed. I would ask that when you continue your presidency and read us with a name and a last name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45313	Members of the 48th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45314	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted the amendment to Article 48, Mr Sertic, of this bill. We've been arguing all day, not getting out of here, a little tired, but we're not giving up. Sisifov's work continues in our National Assembly. Here's an additional argument, gentlemen, for the amendment to Article 48. It's a bill of law. I see Mr. Jovicic is listening most carefully. We believe, Mr Arsenovic, that the justification for the adoption of the draft law by emergency procedure does not contain any essential explanation of the reasons, but only the wording written in the Rules of Procedure was taken over, and then it is thought that it was enough for us to accept the treatment of our National Assembly by the representatives of the executive government here. We added, on the contrary, from the content of the reasoning, that the law is purpose to itself. Since the proposal did not explain why the draft law on emergency procedure is necessary, it did not, in any word, argue that there is a link between the idea that the draft law should be adopted in accordance with the urgent procedure and the existence of public interest for such action, citizens, respected gentlemen, can rightly suspect that the reasons for proposing such a legislative project concern the achievement of certain personal or particular private interests. I'm really getting a call right now. They're calling, Mr. Arsenovic. Co-operational Ivana, who has normally worked with care on amendments, reports that citizens support this debate in the National Assembly, some because they are convinced that the law is not good, and some think, Mr Arsenovic, that this is also one way to find out what is written in the legislative projects sent by the Government to the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45315	Thank you. Members of the 49th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45316	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like special attention to the amendment to Article 49. It's a bill of law, because it's about the Court of Honor. When honor is mentioned, of course, there are associations to honesty and, of course, academic honesty, whose entry into the law, gentlemen, we will all celebrate together today, because this will be a major shift for our legislative activity. In the position of one, Mr Arsenovic, Article 49, which we propose to delete, writes the following - on the day of entry into force of this law, the Court of Honors the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade and the courts of honor of regional chambers of commerce continue to work in accordance with the statutes of chambers and this law, and the courts honor regional chambers of commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade, which, in accordance with this law, are attached to the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, cease to exist on that day, with the subject of the Court of Honor of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. I have an additional observation. When the amendment is proposed - it is deleted, then we deny ourselves the opportunity to submit, for example, one of those language amendments, so that we can contribute a little bit to the language of the law being completely clean. Here, for example, there is one style missing in one word in attitude 1. I noticed that now. I hadn't noticed before, but in the legal technical order, I'm convinced, it's to be arranged and, if this bill is passed, it will in a language sense... Please focus your attention on that. Even when a law is passed that is bad, let it be absolutely accurate and correct in language terms. That's what I'm fighting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45317	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45318	I'll be very brief. I suggest not to accept this amendment. The adoption of amendments, any parliamentary groups, depends on how high the amendment is and how much it contributes to the improvement of a legislative proposal. Given the quality of the amendments submitted by the colleague, I believe they will experience the fate of his amendments, everyone will be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45319	Thank you. The 50th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and a group of MPs of the Democratic Party. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45320	Thank you. Can you tell me if I'm in that group of MPs of the Democratic Party, since you haven't read the names, so I don't know if I'm in that group?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45321	Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45322	Thank you. So it's a Article 50 that talks about the entry into force of this law where we see that certain provisions of this law come into force only on 1 January 2017, which brings us to a small, I don't know what to say, a misunderstanding which is why you suggested that this law be adopted by an urgent procedure. In your explanation, you're saying that this is in accordance with Article 167. Rules of Procedure. It says - an emergency procedure can pass a law that regulates issues and relations resulting from circumstances that could not be predicted, and the adoption of laws by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for people's lives and health, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations etc. I don't know what you couldn't predict right now, so you're proposing the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, and you yourself said that the previous law is very old, and in what way, if there will be adverse consequences for life, country safety and people's health, etc., why can we wait until 1 January 2017? We think that you have proposed this law by emergency procedure only to conceal that at the same session we have converted public debt to the public debt of the Serbian public company "Srbigas", and that what you are proposing is that, after an emergency procedure, laws are adopted that will only take place in one year and a half of the day, only determines us in this thinking. (Zoran Babiæ, from the scene: So do you for 800 million. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45323	Don't, please, Grandma, don't throw it away. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45324	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 50 is the last amendment submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and me to the Chamber of Commerce Act. Article 50 states – the date of entry into force of this law ceases to apply to the Chamber of Commerce other than the provisions of the members of those and those in force until 1 January 2017. Our intention was to point out during the debate, Mr Arsenovic, that it is better to keep this Chamber of Commerce Act as it is now, instead of changing some ideas to the existing regulation up there. I thought it was always appropriate to react in the National Assembly when I estimate that some legislative change is directing us all, citizens of our Republic towards worse conditions of action, and I think there is still time for Minister Sertic to change his mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45325	To the title of Chapter XX. and members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45326	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 51 is the last amendment that we have submitted to the New Party's National MPs on the proposal for the Chamber of Commerce Act. Article 51, which is also the obligation of the motionors, provides that this law enters into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and we would agree that this provision of the last article of a bill should not be amended if the content of the previous members of such a bill would be different. Minister Sertić, we promised in principle that we had prepared ourselves for the proposal of the Law on Chambers of Commerce, that we had read the basic additional literature and that literature concerning the development of the Chamber of Commerce, that here I had prepared one book which had a review of development and thought since 1857-2007, so we had completed this period since 2007-2015 and not only of this kind of document, but also of other literature, expert analyses, consulted Minister Sertić, with members and members of the business council acting within the New Party, and we had one agreement that it was necessary in this way to react to this legislative project. They're mine, that we've been in this debate more convincingly. I have listened to your argument, faced these screams of arguments, and it did not seem to me that, based on the confrontation of these arguments, I can here today say that this legislative project and that the proposing of this legislative project deserves support for this legislative project. That's why I remain against this esteemed gentleman and Mr. Sertic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45327	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45328	I am, again, completely counterconvinced by honourable MPs. If the MP had read this book with which they are waving, such a large one, which has been following the history of the PKK since 1856, I am fully convinced and certain that no member today would be an amendment of the type "is deleted", but would have made it possible in some parts to make some of our contributions to make our chamber system even better, even better. This is how he practically humiliated not only the amendment promoter, but all the businessmen who want to function within the single system, who need the chamber. Examples from the world we have, above all in the continental part of Europe, show us what potentials are, what strength is and what is all within the chamber system of each of these countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45329	Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted the title above the members and members of the 51st amendment. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45330	I thank Mr. Vice President, perhaps Mr. Sertic noticed that we do not want this law to come into force. That's why we're proposing to delete this last provision. We call on MPs to support our amendments or simply vote against the law in the voting day, because the effect will be the same. You, when we started the debate, said that we, we suggest that the provisions of this law be deleted, we suggest that the definition of the PKK be deleted, etc. But it's not true, we already have the law. We just think that the existing law is better than what you are offering, and more importantly, we have today a political message for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that in this way I cannot pass proposals of such serious laws, which you will forgive, should define a very important area. Mr. Sertic, you can't schedule a session of the Assembly for Monday morning, which is not your problem. That's the problem with this assembly. You cannot send 72 legislative proposals by emergency procedure because it is an abuse of emergency procedure. You sent out laws in an urgent manner whose provisions will enter into force in January 2017, arguing that there will be adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, for the safety of the state, etc. So we don't want this law to come into force. It is not true that there will then be no law to apply, because there is a law in this area and therefore we call on the MPs to either adopt our amendments or vote against this law. In this way, the Assembly that has elected the government of the Republic of Serbia should send the government of the Republic of Serbia so that it cannot behave with representatives of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45331	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to 66 points of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on CENTRAL EIDENTY OF PRIMATE TERMINATION OF THE RIGHT OF THE FACTS OF THE REGISTRAL REGISTERS AGENCY. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blagoja Bradić, Ivan Karić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragolju Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovan Marković, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavić. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. On chapter I, the name above the members and Article 1 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45332	I thank you, here's another law by emergency procedure that goes into effect in seven or eight months. This is, say, an area where we really see the need for something to be regulated. I believe you know, Mr. Sertice, that we have had all sorts of strange events when it comes to the Agency for Economic Registers...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45333	Miss Jerkov, please, I'm sorry, but you are not the bearer of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45334	Well, well, you see why you have to read names, you never know who the bearer is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45335	I'm sorry, it's my fault for giving you my word. On behalf of the above member and member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs of the mg of Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic. Now you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45336	I still got my word. So we've had very strange events in the past year when it comes to the Agency for Economic Registers. We had, say, imagine now a citizen who said he was going to get a job at his brother's firm. Then, we have a situation where on the official website, official data from the Business Registers Agency, we see that this brother, indeed, has a firm, a company that has huge debts, which is in the blockade, etc. that the brother said he had no company and if the citizen had only a few, some time before that, had said that he would be employed in the company, to find out in the end that the company had been operating for years with the falsified data of that same brother, who had probably stolen a ID card years earlier, had founded on his name a firm, had been making arrangements, had signed orders from the bank, and for years the company had been dealing with falsified data from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who doesn't even know that he had a firm, because he knew for sure that he had incorrectly declared that such a company does not exist. So, as you can see, many malfeasances happen in this Agency for Economic Registers. It is absolutely impossible that these citizens were telling the truth and we see the need to settle this issue. However, as in all the cases so far, we are proposing to delete both this member and every other member of this law, because we believe that the only reason you put them in the session of the Serbian Parliament is to hide that this Assembly will turn into a debt of all citizens of Serbia in two or three days' debt of the public enterprise "Srbigas".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45337	Thank you. I have to admit, I didn't understand anything. The word is Zoran Babic. I didn't understand you, Alexander, and I couldn't even react then. Here you go, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45338	In that same, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the same Business Registers Agency has registered the firm "Gardi". I guess, Mr. Chairman, that you've heard of the "Gardi" company, it's one of the reputations of a company owned by close associates Bojan Pajtic, because all construction works, all possible work to be done in the AP Vojvodina, are done through the "Gardi" company. However, through this company, "Gardi" is only one-way, and it is official in the Agency for Business Registers and when I say it is one-way means that Bojan Pajtic points to money and pays to the account of the company "Gardi" and let's say for the "Hatterland" castle for children distracted in the development of a million and 200 thousand euros, but this reputed company "Gardi" has no obligation and has nothing to do with the children's account being distracted in development except to place a board - a metal board that I think should enter the book of the record, because it costs a million and 200 thousand euros. So much for a metal board directed by Bojan Pitiæ. So much is spent in the AP Vojvodina for one metal board. But, you know, gentlemen, for children distracted by development, their families don't need a board of metal. It needs a castle, it needs space, it needs everything that the Guardi company needed, which is registered at the Business Registers Agency, which is active in getting money from Bojan Pajtic, to get money from all RS citizens living in Vojvodina, but not to do anything. Then that money disappears in some very foggy ways and comes to the pockets of DS officials and their close people. That's how the AP Vojvodina works. By the way, for "Srbigas", yes, we had a debate, we're going to vote, but we're going to vote once by contrast, I'm ending up, from an amendment who didn't vote once for such a thing, she voted four times for much larger amounts, for ten times the amount, and then it was okay because she was in favour of the government because she was part of the ruling coalition, because she voted for the current director of "Srbiagas" and that was fine. We're not hiding anything because we came very transparently and publicly here to the National Assembly. There's Mr Sertic, there's SNS MPs. We are not ashamed of anything, nor of what we conceal. But someone is ashamed because Bojan Pajtic is not in his job today, nor are you, Mr. Chairman, who can be his father, you are in the workplace regularly, and Bojan Pajtic is not in the workplace, and the people of Serbia are paying him to sit and do what he does? It refers to the "Gardia_" million and 200,000 euros and is walking around Belgrade. I can understand the nervousness of the amendment promoters because of these announced gatherings, a few members of the family of MPs came.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45339	I must say, I didn't understand you either, connected you to the amendment. According to Mrs. Jerkov's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45340	I ask you for an explanation: was this a replica or an amendment or what is this, what would this be to us, Mr. Babic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45341	It was by amendment of the kobajaga. Goran Ciric, did you want anything? Did you want a replica? Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45342	You've done your own comment on what we've been listening to for three and a half minutes. I think Mrs. Jerkov was talking about the subject, the amendment, the Agency for Economic Registers...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45343	Neither did she. I said I didn't understand her either. So don't defend her. You have the right to replication in view of the exhibition of Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45344	This was the answer to her presentation and I want to explain exactly how much she was in the subject and spoke on the subject of her amendment, on the subject of the Agency for Economic Registers, and that the company she talked about has functioned for three years and that the question of counterfeiting of that documentation is now being raised. There is a need to correct such shortcomings that may occur at the Agency for Economic Registers. There has been no answer to that subject, and always, here in yesterday and all these years in this conference, when there are no arguments to call to the Regional Government, calls for Bojan Pajtic, talks about completely other topics that absolutely have nothing to do with what we have talked about and what we need to talk about today. I invite you to respond, and you and your comment confirmed that the previous speaker did not speak for a second on the subject of the daily session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45345	I did confirm it, but I confirmed it for both of us. The minister has a word, Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45346	Please, the Law reads – Proposal for a law on the central record of temporary restrictions on the rights of persons registered in the Agency for Economic Registers. Article 1 defines certain things that are the subject of this law. This isn't the Agency for Business Registers Act, so let's talk about the Agency on that basis. But in order to give a precise and clear answer to the question asked through the amendment, the firm concerned was the founding papers of the court who at that time was under the full control of all members who were in power at the time. If somewhere you can look for a place of fraud, then how is it based on fake ID cards in court certified? It has nothing to do with the Business Registers Agency. I ask you to get back on the subject and start talking about what the subject of this law is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45347	Thank you, Minister. The word has been given by MP Aleksandra Tomic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45348	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow MPs, to end this story in general with the mystification of the type of signatures, whether or not it's plagiarism, means it's not even the Agency for Economic Registers, but the police and the court. So until today, we didn't have a single database of all state institutions from which you can see first which people are concerned, who owns certain business entities and what their business is, and whether they are in some way actually registered according to the law. This law should essentially give us, to solve the full information of a target group of half a million people who own 400,000 small and medium-sized enterprises. There should be records of people working in a certain illegal way, for which there are certain documents, infringements of administrative procedures and criminal proceedings, without the state knowing it. That's about 21% of the entire economy. For so much of Serbia's economy, it damages and so simply brings disorder to the capital market and challenges work and halts the work of those other business entities that work normally. As a result, such a law should also be adopted by all these amendments that are in line with this "expect" and which defiance at all the existence of such a law should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45349	Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the title above the members and Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the MP of the people, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, magistrate Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the title above the members and the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, magistrate Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Balša Bozovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovan Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Marković, MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Glav II, the name above the members and the 6th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, the People's MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the title above members and Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, magistrate Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together submitted the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45350	The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 8th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. On Chapter III, the name above the members and Article 9 of the amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 10th Amendment. Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 11th Amendment, National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Marković, MP of the people Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic together. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Marković, MP of the people, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic together. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 14th amendment, MPs Goran Ciric, Jovana Jovanovic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party put together. Thank you. On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Thank you. On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Thank you. On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov was submitted to the 17th Amendment. Thank you. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Thank you. On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 19th Amendment. Thank you. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The National MPs Goran Ciric, Jovana Jovanovic, and eight DS MPs put together the name above members and Article 20 of the amendment. Thank you. On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. On chapter IV, the title above the members and members of the 21st Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovan Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Marković, the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and the MP of the people Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The People's MPs Goran Ciric, Jovana Jovanovic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party submitted to the title V above the members and Article 22 of the amendment. Thank you. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic submitted a name above the member and a member of the 22nd amendment in the same text. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 23rd amendment, MPs Goran Ciric, Jovana Jovanovic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted. Thank you. On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45351	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is my great pleasure that Minister Sertic, however, decided to accept an amendment submitted by the People's MPs to the New Party today at the National Assembly. The adoption of this amendment implies at least one part of the orientation of the proposing, the representative of the executive branch of government in our country, to the great principle of rule of law, respected gentlemen, because harmonising words, sentences, using the signs of interpretation in an appropriate manner in accordance with the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language means, above all, precision, and precision is needed in order to have the rule of law in the country. I am only sorry that Mr Sertic has not reacted in the same way as he has now responded to the adoption of this amendment. Had Minister Sertic reacted on several occasions, it would have meant acting in accordance with the rule of law to me. This is how we remain to debate, to debate, to face attitudes whenever there is an opportunity, and all in one way, to create conditions here, I mean honored gentlemen, for a democratic, mature, and above all, it's important for me to stress here, first of all, modern society. So that we don't look back, that we don't feel like we're constantly coughing and we're late, but that we're in the middle of what's going on around us in that part of the world that's developed, advanced, smart, intelligent, and that we can compete with people who live in those parts of the world. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45352	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I'm hurt that you haven't said at least one word from the amendment in these two minutes, just one word, let's just say, confirmation of central records, let's say that. Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45353	I would have been pleased if I had the opportunity to read your amendments even if in this spirit of grammatical corrections, but unfortunately the largest number of 90-99% of your amendments was – it was deleted, and there is nothing to read and there is no contribution to the laws, it is here and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45354	Thank you. You see, Mr. Pavicevic, if you write a good amendment he accepts. Better good amendments than a large number of those who read - are deleted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The title above the members and members of the 24th Amendment in the same text were brought together by the MPs Natasa Vukković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Marković, the MPs of Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and the MP of the people Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The title above the members and members of the 25th Amendment in the same text were brought together by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Marković, the MPs of Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. The name above the member and Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 26th Amendment in the same text, together were the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovan Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Marković, the MPs of Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and the MP of the people Balša Bozovic. Thank you. On chapter VIII, the name above the member and article 27 of the amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic, Thank you. The 27th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 28th Amendment in the same text, together were the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovan Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Marković, the MPs of Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and the MP of the people Balša Bozovic. Thank you. Both MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic, MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic, together submitted the title above the members and the amendment. Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 67th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Privatization You have received amendments submitted by the MPs under the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Now I'm setting a three-minute break. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The People's MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to the 1st Amendment. Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. Both MPs Goran Ciric and eight MPs of the Democratic Party submitted to the 2nd amendment. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ziric, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45356	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, we also had a discussion in principle about this law. We gave our position. What we are doing today and Article 1 and Article 2 should correct what we have adopted with a pompous announcement, so, the previous law or the current privatisation law when you have pompenously announced that this will solve many problems in privatisation and social capital conversion. I think it's clear to all of us that none of this was and that the effects of that law that we passed a year ago are minor. It would be good to hear what the key effects of that law are. Then when we talked and didn't agree on any previous drafts of the law, that even in this law, we are moving again towards some kind of centralisation and impairment of the capacity of institutions and not accepting that some institutions are doing their job successfully with access to repairing those institutions, and that their capacities should be raised, invested in all of them, and not extinguished by the fact that all competencies will eventually come to the Ministry of Economy. I don't think that's a good way to go and we're not going to have an efficient job that's put before us just the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, I'd like you to explain and tell us at the beginning when we're discussing amendments, what essentially were the effects of the previously adopted law, and why we're getting so quickly into the changes and additions to this privatisation law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45357	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45358	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, which institutions are we talking about if the privatisation process is over, then what is the Privatisation Agency doing? Firstly, we have pledged to complete this procedure as a state, to sign certain documents regarding the EU. In a report on Serbia's progress, we have through this year's report and all chapters of our commitment to complete the privatisation process. And then we're talking about changes and additions, meaning that we're talking about stopping the Privatisation Agency next year and those powers that the Ministry of Industry is supposed to end, and then we're talking about someone shutting down, or destroying institutions. No, the privatisation process is over. And that's the end of it. Social property ceases to exist. Therefore, these changes and additions are just saying that all transactions related to the privatisation process on the capital market and to the control of the implementation of the contractual obligations that the agency had simply must be taken over by the Ministry of Economy. And that's the end of the privatisation process that's been going on for the last 20 and over years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45359	Thank you. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45360	Thank you, Chairman. Vienna, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Ministers of Honor. What we had a chance to hear when we discussed your privatisation law and when you assured us that we would solve all the problems in those big systems, which employ 90, 100 thousand workers. You said that we had passed the law by finding strategic partners in this privatisation process first of all and finding those potential partners who would take over these companies, and factories to preserve a huge number of jobs. We have a situation with the PKK today, it privatizes in the most devastating way possible by selling property. Then we have a situation with Dragan Markovic's company in Obrenovac, then we have a situation with the Rakovic engine industry where six hundred workers remained on the street, that you closed that factory and just to remind you that their products, the IMR tractors were national tractors in several African countries, including Egypt. And today these workers are without any possibility of finding a new job, and this land in Rakovica will be turned into a shopping mall. Although we just had a chance to hear that you completed the privatisation process, you didn't say until the end how? You completed the privatisation process unsuccessfully. By just shutting down the factories, by not finding potential and strategic partners and just by landing that these factories existed until yesterday, you are today turning into building land to build shopping malls in Belgrade. It's bad practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45361	Time. Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45362	This to hear from the mouth of another MP who has not been in power for the past 14 or 15 years, and someone who has left us and the economy organized and arranged and resolved the privatisation process, and the uninvited enterprises and workers who are happy and satisfied and I would understand your objection and the way you address us. You'd remain a complete mess, 556 companies I found on September 3rd last year, which only the first 50 of those 556 companies owed four billion euros. Ninety-two thousand workers whose hopes are only extended for years, you know dear friends, dear workers, one day someone will come with a magic wand to wave and you will have all the wonderful jobs and your businesses will work great. And here and in previous laws, and every day there's talk of a liberal concept of the functioning market, and no one had the guts of political, nor the power to come out and say – people, we can't do this anymore because we're destroying small and medium-sized people who work because we don't have enough investors because we have to change our business environment. We're the ones who did it this year. We are the ones who published 178 public calls this year for enterprises from 2006 to 2014, none of which have been published. We first defined that the end and completion of the process of moving on social capital, i.e. the existence of social capital in Serbia's economic life, is the end. That's what's gonna happen next week. The privatisation agency in this form with 300 employees, with all the obligations it had in the previous period, has no reason to exist anymore. I explained this at the beginning, and I will repeat now, we as the Ministry are taking a great commitment to ourselves to both in the future period and to control everything that was in the previous period and to end these processes in the future and the next period in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45363	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment include National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45364	Article 3 is just talking about the ministry responsible for business conducts and controls all privatisation procedures in the Republic of Serbia and performs its duty to intervene in the sale of public and social capital, property, in the privatisation process. So, we mentioned social capital and the announcement that by the end of the year, so in a few days, 31 December 2015, everything with social capital will be completed, that this law, as I understand it, is applied from February 1st, at least such a plan, and that this article says that the ministry's competence will be to sell public and social capital, which means that social capital exists in the Republic of Serbia after 1 February. I think that's one of the questions that we've talked about, but if we're going to take that as an essential answer or as part of an excuse, it will certainly depend on this answer, because I see the minister is ready to give that answer to all of us. I think it's important, Mr. Minister, when you were talking about it, it's clear, it hasn't been perfectly guided by that process all over the past few years since it's been launched since the '90s, and there's no magic wand, and if many of the past years have waved a magic wand, and they've been making easy promises, and some of you and some of them are, but I think it's important to say not how many calls have been made, but how many jobs have been made, and that's the expectation, to hear what the effects are. Because any law here we discuss and raise our hands, and press the tasters, it is very important to see what the effects of these decisions are and I think the effects of the current Privatisation Act that ceases to apply on January 1st, with the adoption of this new one, will take effect on the economy of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45365	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr Sertic. Here you go, Mr. Sertice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45366	We've talked about what you're asking on the Committee, and I want to repeat it for both you and the other MPs who haven't heard it, so that's the wording left for those companies that are currently in court. So we cannot define or force the court and courts to complete the trial by December 31st. So, when the processes are completed, in order to determine different relationships, the court, most often between social and state capital, makes a certain decision and you will have different percentages in a company. One part of these percentages of the ownership of the structure will be the social capital that must be processed at that time. Therefore, only because of this legal interpretation, or legal work. As far as privatisation itself is concerned, that's how 178 public calls have been made for 100 companies, and I'm just going to name you the main companies without media houses. So, without media houses, 21.3m euros were sold to Bački Sivac, Agrobačka and Jadran, Nova Gajdobra and Young Borac, Al Ravafed, for an investment of 140m euros, and already 40m euros was invested this year. The Ferrero project for nearly eightm euros, July 7th, Sivac was sold for 4.5m euros, an oil refinery sold, C Makret and Zastava Metal Company, Resavica, all combined privatisation income in this year is 49,666m euros. Unlike those years I said in a large, longer series, nearly six and a half years, there is no announcement, not one sale, not one single euro for the Republic of Serbia, or for those companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45367	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45368	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, what was also very important to know, is the period in which you and Mr. Vujovic persuaded us here that at least half of the employees of these companies would be preserved. We told you at the time that it couldn't go through and that we were afraid that you wouldn't be able to save...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45369	Mr. Bozovic, one request only to you to stick to the amendment. I'm asking you not to let the debate go the other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45370	Let's hang in there. I'm sorry. So, the amendment you deleted is because we don't want the whole law to be passed for the next reason, because these changes and additions are worse than those changes and additions that you had in your law before here's over, I can't remember, but there's a year safe. You say you found something that caused you a big problem because you inherited a big problem. Before you, the minister was Mr Vujovic. So who left you this if not your colleague current finance minister? What's also important when we're talking about social property, and this amendment is actually solving that thing right now and it's talking about that thing. What about DP Novi Sad? What about the social enterprise in Novi Sad that is now living and living and next year you know it very well? He is on the manger of the state and he is getting money from the budget, but there are employees of someone's party soldiers, any party, whatever it is I'm dealing with is totally whatever and everything is absolutely the same to me. So what you've found, it won't be possible now with these changes and supplements to solve, not even with this member of the law, because we have a problem that 100,000 workers are about to lose their income. With 100,000 salaries in Serbia, you'll have less production. You are the minister of economy and you know it very well with less production of what happens to the entire economy of Serbia at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45371	I thank Mr. Bozovic. I didn't want to interrupt again, but please, you have to hold on... (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: In the second part I held on. ) You are not Mr Bozovic, you just have to stick to it and explain why you want to delete a specific member, not the whole law. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Because of social property. I'm asking you at least a little bit to move in that context. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric and eight DS MPs. Mr. Ciric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45372	Article 4 of Article 12 is amended and reads – The buyer may be a domestic or foreign legal or natural person within the meaning of the provisions of this Act. Now, this provision requires a more precise and clear attitude and a public attitude. Only a domestic legal or physical person can be a buyer of agricultural land. What's with the formulation? Only a domestic legal or physical person can be a buyer of agricultural land. I think it should be made clear to all the people and those who have protested here today because of the feeling that their rights have been compromised, but also because of the whole public in Serbia, that this formulation is only the following, that everyone can buy agricultural land, because both foreign legal and natural persons can be owners of domestic legal persons and thus also the buyers of agricultural land. So this formulation, I think, is written quite trendy to leave the impression that only domestics can be buyers of agricultural land.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45373	Thank you, Mr. Kiric. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the Fourth Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly tabled by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. Here's a word from the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I step over two minutes, I ask you to deny me time from my authorized representative's time. So we're talking about Article 4 which is changing Article 12. The law on privatisation, and that's where I want to point out the problems that are in one segment even against the Constitution. Our amendment was, of course, rejected. The bill contains a standard whereby a customer, or a member of a consortium, cannot be, among other things, a person convicted of crimes against life and body, crimes against property, crimes against business, official duty, people's health, crimes against public order and peace, therefore, cannot be a person against whom criminal proceedings have been committed for these crimes. I'm here talking about this bill being against the law, so I'd like to ask Mr. Minister if he can listen to me. So, Mr. Minister, this member is determined that a customer or a member of a consortium cannot be the person against whom a criminal offence has been committed. I'm talking about Article 4(3). So, this proposal violates, or this proposal violates the constitutional principle of presummation of innocence, because before anyone is convicted and before it is proven to have committed any crime, you disqualify him by this law that he cannot be a customer or a member of the consortium. For example, in a group of crimes against, for example, life and body, and the crime of minor physical injury in Article 122, we consider this emulation to be wrong. Criminal code. Secondly, the promoter did not foresee that the buyer, or member of the consortium, could not be a person convicted of crimes based on work, crimes against gender freedom or electoral rights. Let's go back, I hope you found in the bill this part relating to the violation of the constitutional principle of presummation of innocence. Please answer me in particular why you did not accept our amendment, because it is now determining that this oversight of yours will be corrected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45375	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45376	Unfortunately, because of the history of privatisation in our country, because of all the problems that were happening in the previous period, we had to be very careful and to define very clearly which persons cannot access the privatisation process. You've listed everything, you agree with most other things, except where it's said that a criminal procedure has been initiated. As soon as a criminal trial is initiated, it means he has a fundamental suspicion and it's only a restriction as long as the criminal proceedings take place. So if the face is freed, he'll be able to buy like any other citizen. On the other hand, this is not the only law in the Republic of Serbia that thus restricts access to certain rights of persons with criminal charges. Unfortunately, I say again, because of history, because of everything that's been happening to us, because of the sale of companies that we've been returning to the state of distress and taken over in a completely devasted state, we've had to be careful about what to do with these companies in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45377	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45378	Thank you. In the amended Article 4, we proposed that the views of 7-14 be deleted for the simple reason that the possibility of foreign citizens, i.e. foreign customers being the buyers of the most fertile country in Serbia, be left with the possibility. I have just returned from a protest by a couple from Vojvodina and farmers from Serbia, who have been very upset because the Agricultural Land Act is for example. allow one of the customers to be Tennis, who will buy 30% of the most fertile land...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45379	Mr. Bozovicu, we will have the Agricultural Land Act either on Saturday or on Sunday or Monday. Don't talk about him now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45380	Thank you. This is about leaving the possibility of further privatisation, i.e. buying state land by foreigners, through this law. We believe that this must be erased, because the country of the first, second and third categories, if we give to those who do not process Serbia for years, decades, hundreds of years, but the championship is won by means of a direct agreement with the Commission of the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we believe that the citizens of Serbia, or those of the farmers who live out of this will not have the opportunity to achieve some of their interests. It's about 70,000 people living off this. We think this is very bad, because this formulation allows theoretically, and that is also in practice, that foreigners buy the most fertile country in Serbia without leaving absolutely nothing for the Serbian peasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45381	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted the 5th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic and nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45382	Thank you. Article 5 of this Act speaks of the finality of decisions. We believe that what is given in this article is in conflict with the Constitution. You said in the first position – decisions made in accordance with this law are final; administrative dispute may be conducted against the decision of Article 1. We think it is also important to introduce an opportunity to object to a decision, and our amendment to this article reads: "The participant in the privatisation process has the right to object to decisions made in the privatisation process within eight days of the decision-making day. The complaint shall be submitted to the Ministry responsible for business affairs, which is required to decide on the objection within eight days of the date of receipt of the complaint. The act deciding on the objection is final and an administrative dispute can be held against it." The answer we received said: the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the provision for the provision is due to the concept of the law that the ministry responsible for business affairs is implementing and controlling the privatisation process, so the finality of the decisions made under this law, etc. I ask you once again to consider this possibility and introduce into the law our amendment that gives the unsatisfactory opportunity in privatising the right to object to a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45383	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 7th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and nine MPs from Boris Tadic's group. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45384	Thank you. Article 7 refers to the assets obtained by the sale of capital, i.e. assets in the privatisation process. There's a schedule for those funds. We predicted that point 4. in that same article is 5%, and otherwise it refers to funds intended for local administrations in the privatisation process, that it rises from 5% to 35%, and that point 5 is deleted. Point 5 says 30% of the funds will be allocated for other purposes determined by the government of the Republic of Serbia by a business decision. In response, it is practically said that the government has much better resources than local administrations. This is another set of laws that are almost brutally centralizing the entire state. The government has decided to centralise everything, not taking care of all local self-government equally and, as one colleague said the other day, defending the laws represented by Minister Vujovic, this government takes care of the figures. Unfortunately, her concern seems to only come down to numbers, not citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45385	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 8th amendment. Thank you. On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric and nine MPs of the Democratic Party group. Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 9th Amendment. Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The 10th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Jovana Jovanovic and seven MPs of the Democratic Party. Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to the 10th Amendment. Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and joint MP Goran Ciric, Jovana Jovanovic and seven MPs of the Democratic Party. Thank you. Members of the 12th amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Jovanovic and seven MPs of the Democratic Party. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 13th amendment. Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 13th Amendment. Thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45386	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Ministers, here we have proposed to delete the entire member, and in paragraph 3, which is that the one who makes up the committee of the relevant ministry must have five years of working experience in business, privatisation or in the business of the subjects of privatisation. So with these criteria, you can report any member of the SNS and he'll be the one who decides tomorrow how and how someone who wants to buy a particular company, by some direct contract, will eventually be able to get that contract. I think it's very important that at least something more transparent be, and for that reason, we suggested that we delete this member. I'm just going to do a few next things again because it's very important that this commission applies to those workers who can easily be left without their existence tomorrow. When someone decides that a company no longer has salvation, these workers will receive a miserable social programme or without a social programme to stay on the street, and it is 100,000 people in Serbia. What are they going to have tomorrow to heal, to feed, to educate their children? No one is concerned about this today, and at least the members of the commission to be elected on a party basis. So how and how do we protect 100,000 workers, at least 30%, at least 40% of people to stay to work in some real sector, and why, in the IMR case, have we allowed 600 people, who produced some tractors, to export, to be exported, to stay on the street today, and that factory to be so brutally closed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45387	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45388	This great care for the members of the commission and their existence, I really can't understand. We wrote in Section 3 that it is a condition for someone to become a member of the commission, five years of working experience in business. So someone who needs to know the economy. Another thing that has experience in privatisation processes, which is very important, because this is a professional topic or that it has experience in the business of a privatization subject. I would understand that you have given an amendment with two, three, five, or ten criteria that would strengthen one member like this and define a much better and much more quality question for the election of members of the commission. Your member-wipes means we don't have any criteria. On any basis, I don't understand by any logic how you thought that member - we could delete ourselves and bring some quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45389	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, together submitted the 13th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 13(2) states that the Commission which carries out the public procurement process has three members and consists of a representative of the employees of the privatisation entity and two representatives of the Ministry of Business Affairs. Our amendment refers to exactly this position where it is added – if it is a privatization subject, based on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and one representative of the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina. We believe that the Commission for the implementation of the public competition procedure, i.e. the collection of tenders with public competition, should be extended to another member, i.e. the representative of the AP Vojvodina, when the subject of privatisation on the territory of the AP Vojvodina is to be extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45391	Thank you. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Goran Ciric, Jovana Jovanovic and seven MPs of the Democratic Party. Thank you. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Goran Ciric, Jovana Jovanovic and seven MPs of the Democratic Party. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45392	Thank you. So we propose to delete a member, not just to erase that attitude, but to delete the entire law exclusively. We are trying to prove to each member to you, Mr. Minister, that we are essentially against changes and additions to such a law. For what? Not only out of protest, but because we don't trust that now your new momentum, when it comes to new laws, we've turned into some law factory here, which are inapplicable and very bad and are not in the interest of the citizens, that this change will help solve the crucial problems. In Article 15, it is also mentioned, among other things, about the sale of capital that certain contracts do not apply to capital, rather than to the sale of only assets. We have a PKB case to sell property. We will never understand why you do not take the most basic brand, for example, the Agricultural Corporation of Belgrade, because if that brand appeared on the dairy market, yogurt, etc., it would have unimaginably huge effects on competition. That's what you know. We don't sell a brand here. We here exclusively, not legally, book a country on the PKK to get to that country tomorrow and sell our throats, sell cattle, property, some machines, which is a total minimisation of the price of the PKK, as much as it would otherwise reach to be sold absolutely as something that has existed in Serbia for 60 or 50 years. So it's very important that one part of the privatisation, where that makes sense, is determined for the sale of capital. This is where we will reach a much higher price than if you sell 10,000 throats, so someone will say tomorrow – here is half the price for you, because no one else in Serbia will buy it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45393	Thank you. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Goran Ciric, Jovana Jovanovic and seven MPs of the Democratic Party. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45394	I thank you, so here are these three amendments 14, 15 and 16. relating to capital of large privatisation entities. So I'm just repeating, that according to what I said a little while ago, it's very important that we see and determine how and how we can accomplish our interest. We are against the privatisation of the PKK, to be understood immediately, because we believe that many cities in Europe have a similar model of agricultural production, many large cities in Europe. To the soul, no city in Europe, or even the capital, has such a large agricultural combination as the PKK. On the other hand, we sell him a Buddha why, by selling his property, someone's going to buy some construction tomorrow, some hall, some machine, some tractor, and they're not going to buy a PKB as a brand that's worth a lot more than his property. And he was once in a minus 70m or 80m euros until he moved to Belgrade City, when he recorded zero in the first year, and next year plus, he was worth several hundredm euros. You had a potential price of half a billion euros, today it's being sold for, what, less than 50 million euros and we think it's a distribution of value...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45395	Mr. Bozovic, just a little bit about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45396	Yeah, yeah. ... values, because capital is much more valuable than PKV's assets and for that very reason we have proposed to delete this member because we believe that there is more money in the sale of capital and if we agree with that concept, we absolutely disagree. We're against privatisation. But when you're privatizing, you better privatize some brand, and then through that capital we'll have some yogurt, the triangular one that used to be, you remember better than me. But anyway, I think it's important that we pay attention to the next amendment, and it also talks about it, and I'll get back to you and we'll discuss it, Mr. Minsiter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45397	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45398	I share your full confidence that I need it, however, that for the PKK and every company that we sell we get as much funding as possible, so that we as a state and as these companies can continue to invest further and develop. However, you should know the basic economic rules. The assets of the company are always bigger than the capital. Because you're subtracting all debts and everything that exists, and the PKK has debts. Therefore, in this respect any sale of capital would certainly be significantly less than today's sale of assets. The second parameter I want to tell you is that only the initial price will be defined, and the market will determine what the value of the PKK is. Is it really worth half a billion, as much as I'd like first, and I want to sell our PKK, or it's going to be less, but the market is going to decide anyway. You will agree with me and you have several times commented that you define yourself as market-functioning and economics and privatisation processes, to be transparent and clear, when we publish a public call for the sale of PKK together we will participate in this, all the public will be informed, because it is simply a defined process by law and we will see what the result will be at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45399	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Jovana Jovanovic and seven DS MPs. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. I asked you only about the amendment, if Mr. Bozovic can.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45400	These three amendments are similar and connected somewhere. So, what's important, when we're talking about capital and property, and in this case you prefer property over capital, I agree with you, when you're selling it, and we disagree with that, why are you selling it at the starting price of 51% of the established market price? If the PKK is so good already, why are you selling it at the starting price of 51%? For another reason, if no one answers for that initial price, the next price is 30% of the market price, so what are you here trying to explain to me? You're selling a bus carrying passengers, going around town every day, and it has some value because it can be used for the purpose it's made for, and you're taking that bus that works and transports passengers apart and selling it as property. So, the capital of the bus is in that case much higher than the assets, Mr Sertic, because that capital has and some of his business involved in all this and some future income. For this reason, I believe that capital in this case is much more valuable than the PKK's assets, because you and I both know that tomorrow someone will buy it exclusively because of a country that is illegally registered to the PKK, and there is property. Under the laws so far, if something changes, on Saturday or Sunday at the vote, I don't know when Mr. Becic will schedule the vote, I think there will be these opportunities, but in any case we have to sell the business here, we have to sell something for which the PKK has been around for 50 years. And on the next amendment, we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45401	I don't know how long I'm going to tolerate you saying something that doesn't comply with the amendments, Mr. Bozovic. The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45402	It's really hard for me to talk to you when you don't know the elemental economic postulates. If you had read the regulations a little better and the law you would know that the PKK is not a privatisation entity defined as a major privatisation entity because there are no over 50m euros in annual traffic. That's the first thing. The second thing, 51% is the starting price only for the estimated assets plus 100% of the stock value and everything that exists in both the stock fund and all other capital values within the PKK. Third thing, I repeat again, it's only the beginning of the price. The right price will be seen what we get on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45403	Thank you. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Goran Ciric, Jovana Jovanovic and seven DS MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45404	So here, in line with our amendments so far to delete the whole law, it is said that in Article 18 of the Agency, with the consent of the Ministry of Business Affairs, it is replaced by the words – the Ministry of Business Affairs. So, all right, we've abolished the agency and the agency here has absolutely no multiplicity, and that's again on our side, personally and from my corner, completely less important because we're not in favour of selling the PKK. However, when it comes to basic economic indicators and parameters, consider the following example. So we have the PKK imagine God not in 1999 and the private owner of the PKK is some stranger. The bombing of Serbia is on the move, and the PKK is shutting down because it does not want to continue operations under bombs. That's one example. Imagine if that had happened, Serbia would have died of a voice. Imagine another example, someone buys the PKK, here's Mr. Martinovic listens to me carefully, someone buys the PKK, and then evaluates the next thing, imagine the milk market in Serbia. He decides that there's a higher price in Africa and he's going to sell his milk to someone else. There's a hell going on in our milk market because it's going to go up the price, but not the quality. So in terms of economic parameters, I agree with you that it's always important to have economic parameters. In this case, these economic parameters in theory don't go into the hands of citizens' interests. Because 50% of Serbia's market is the PKK, 50% of Montenegro's market, Macedonia is the PKK. So we have a big problem that someone tomorrow if they shut down only one of the productions on the market will make a complete collapse. For that reason, I think I would very much like to hear Mr. Sertic's answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45405	Mr. Bozovic, I see from everything you've said in several amendments that it's hard for you not to sell the PKK. But, Mr Bozovic, we just heard from the minister who said this does not apply to the PKK company, because the PKK does not belong under this law, under this amendment that you have submitted. So please, four amendments are enough, I think we've considered this matter completely. Thank you. National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45406	Thank you, Mr. Becic. There was now one very strange thing that made me think that this law was not even to be found on the agenda of the Assembly because it was not prepared in accordance with the methodological rules prescribed by the National Assembly or Mr Sertic and the Government of RS are trying to push some changes to the laws that are not in this law, which is, as I would say, against the law. In fact, by Article 18, which is a former member, you intervene on Article 42 of the First Law where the words are spoken - the Ministry Development Agency is replaced by the words - the Ministry, and then in the second part of the law, please pay attention, I would like Mr. Becic to listen because it really is about the scandal that you did here, on page 40, there is that Article 42. You, on pages 41, 42, 43, 44 and 45, are changing the members of the law in that review of the provisions that you are amending, and in this bill of law you are offering, do not enter those changes. In what way do you, Mr. Sertić, Mr. Becic, this is an extremely important thing, in which way do you think you are changing the provisions of that law or the reasoning that you are not prepared in accordance with the methodological rules? Which means it shouldn't have been on the agenda at all. You or you are changing the laws beyond the National Assembly or you have not prepared the reasoning you have not prepared as the law requires and in this way you are violating the Rules of Procedure, breaking the rules and we are violating this because we are even discussing this or changing the laws of the National Assembly, which would be too much for your government. Eight members of the law provide a review of the provisions that are changed without offering the National Assembly in the draft law to accept the amendment of those members of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45407	Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Can an answer be obtained? ) Well, I could give you an answer if we didn't even have to have the government's opinion, but here's Mr. Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45409	Nothing our government does outside the law and beyond the frameworks that are defined, and in particular we can't say anything under the grain because here, I don't know what, from ten o'clock this morning we're sitting here discussing all the points of the law. And you're a little hurried because when you get to Article 30, but you probably won't hear me now because you're talking about something else, and you want an answer to get it, so when you get to Article 30, you'll see that in Article 30 of this amendment of the law, you'll see what's changing and what's going on, which is not against the law, and it's not against any rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45410	Thank you. Members of the 20th Amendment in the same text were brought together by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and together the MPs Goran Ciric and eight DS MPs. Thank you. Here you go, Master Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45411	Here's another one of those members where you say in Article 20 that Article 50, paragraph 6, paragraph 2, is being settled and deleted, and we, on page 32 of the arguments that you gave us, look at what's changing in Article 20, we see that you've somehow added the Ministry of Business Affairs, the Ministry of Business Affairs, and now, where you're adding some new attitudes, etc.? In what article of the bill do you add all these words that are not in the article you are offering us here? It's simple, Mr. Sertić, I don't know how it's possible for us to look at the provisions that change things that you don't offer to change in this National Assembly. I don't know if it's clear to you that you have to change the laws by offering the National Assembly and proposing to the National Assembly that it change them in the voting day. Tell me, please, in what way do you, with more, actually affect the same member of the basic law through several members of the amendment and supplemental proposal? You add new attitudes, you change words, you change sentences, and you tell us that only in the sixth indent is the settlement of privatisation costs and they are deleted. In the review of the provisions that change, we see that you change a lot more than that. Well, either you're changing laws past the National Assembly or you're not writing good explanations, and in both cases, Mr. Becic, this cannot be found on the agenda of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure don't allow us to do that. It says you can't find acts that aren't based on unique methodological rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45412	Time, thank you. Miss Jerkov, you know very well, you've been an MP for a long time so we don't have to have opinions about the government or the board's opinions that we can discuss. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: Not the opinion of the Government, sir, I'm talking about other things. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45413	Same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45414	Mr. Kiriq, you can't follow this amendment. We have to move on to the next one to get the word. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 21st amendment. Here you go. Would you like Mr. Kiric or Bozovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45415	I think all these remarks that Miss Jerkov made were so serious that it was necessary to take a break and sit down with the professional services and discuss it. I think it's a good five-minute conversation, not this way through microphones, the public, but it's important to clear up with each other and see if it's okay or not, because the objections are so serious that we should clear all this up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45416	Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45417	Sometimes knowledge gives birth to great doubt. I'm really sorry that the MPs don't read exactly and clearly. Read, Article 30, it is complicated, you need to make a little effort to understand it, but please read Article 30 in which they clearly and accurately write all the provisions you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45418	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We're different in sights so it's not worth it. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 21st Amendment. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 21st amendment. Here you go, Mr. Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45419	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again, if I step over two minutes, I ask that you deny me time from my authorized representative's time. I would like to point out one position in Article 21 which is amended by Article 52. The Privatisation Act, and it's highly corrupt, and it's attitude 4. So, let's take it in a row. Article 1 of the contract on the sale of assets is an access contract and contains provisions on the parties, the subject-matter of the sale, the contract price and the payment period. All right. It is said in paragraph 2 that the sale contract may also contain provisions on the amount and time of the investment of the buyer, obligations of business, restrictions on the availability of assets through estrangement and stocks, etc. It is then provided that, if the sale contract contains provisions under Article 2 of the obligations of the buyer on how much he will invest, whether he must continue to carry out the same activity, whether it is limited to the availability of assets through estrangement or deposits and, as a rule, lasts two years. Then Article 4 which is too high for us and, according to our assessment, highly corrupt – especially from the position of the 3rd member, because of the importance of maintaining its activity on the proposal of the restoring ministry, the activity of the Privatisation Entity of the period of contractual obligations can be determined by a three-year contract of sale of assets. No criterion, no principle on which the Resoring Ministry will present its proposal is simply a free appraisal. Why three years? Can we erase this position, because, I repeat, it's highly corrupt, and possibly regulate it with a buy-in agreement? I repeat, Article 21, which amends Article 52, is not acceptable to us because it contains no principle of any rule on the basis of which the ministry will act and represents a great potential source of corruption for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45420	Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go, Mr. Sertice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45421	You've given a good question, but if you link it to the previous position, which says that all investment obligations, to preserve production or work that is related to a particular company, are largely made for two years, this member is now giving the government the opportunity to request, in exceptional cases, that these obligations be extended in the contract. So that's positive for what you're criticizing as a negative attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45422	Thank you. (Alexander Senic, from the place: From the authorized.) Yes, you have time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45423	So, Mr. Minister, if someone is obliged to make certain investments within two years, and you extend it to three, it is by no means in favour of the government, but in favour of whoever invests. You're simply delaying his obligation to execute and realize the investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45424	Thank you. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45425	Thank you. So, Mr. Sertić, we have suggested that, like the law, this member is also deleted, where in one position it says that the buyer acquires the right of property after payment of the contracted price, in accordance with the contract on the sale of assets. What we're interested in is how and how can we be sure that the property has been assessed according to the market and who ultimately assesses that property? Whether we can safely determine whether that price is consistent with or below the market price, and only then determine which percentage is sold. Why am I saying this? Because of the IMR example, where we have a big problem in Rakovica, where we don't trust anyone to consider it, and there are workers and unions coming to the Assembly one day, so he complained to me personally as a national MP. So how and in what way will a machine or part of an asset not in the process of production come to an end, but not somewhere in the middle? Will he be appreciated? How are we going to be able to estimate the whole product and drive, because tomorrow someone is going to want to settle it, buy it first, get the money, and then settle it on that land, for example. Make some squares? It's an asset sale. We're just curious about how and how we're going to get an estimate of the property, especially the part that didn't come as a final product in the manufacturing process, but it got in half somewhere? And there's some engines, and there's some wheels, and there's some parts for those tractors. How and how will they be, for example, Appreciate it? Or are we just going to say, "No, it's not worth anything in that old housewife's house, so we sell it to someone who raises two million squares there?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45426	Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45427	Sometimes I feel like I'm here at school, not in the Assembly. Excuse me, honourable MPs, but I can only recommend that you buy one of the books that deals with asset and capital assessment and read. Our laws in which you have participated in previous periods, therefore, not only in the last year and a half or two days, but also much more, define who it is to assess values. Authorised assessors who are educated, educated and defined by law and licensed to perform that function. With their seal and signature, they guarantee such things. The fact that there was a fraud in the period when you were in power, that is another question, and today many judicial authorities are dealing with such issues. But you can't go into legal solutions to questions - who does? That's what official assessors who are trained and authorized by the state do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45428	Thank you. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 22nd amendment. Thank you. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 22nd Amendment. Thank you. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45429	Thank you. In Article 54, paragraph 3 is deleted and Article 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 are deleted. So we don't think it's relevant from the position of our relationship to this law, but when it comes to the property that's being sold, it's very important to give a further explanation. What exactly is this about when it comes to evaluators and powers? And I agree completely with you here. Mr. Sertić, don't treat us like people who first faced this sort of thing today. That's not true. So that's exactly why we're talking to the workers who stay on the street. For what? Let me tell you why. Because an authorised evaluator in the PKK case assessed the property and left out 10,000 throats as a herd, which is the basic property of the company.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45430	Mr. Bozovic, I really can't let you do this anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45431	This is really an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45432	Well, it isn't, Mr. Bozovic. You talk about the PKK all the time. Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45433	It was just an example.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45434	You suggest an addition of the law to that subject and then you can talk as much as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45435	So it's very important why she's... (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Can I do a little on "Gallenica"? If he can talk about the PKK, I can talk about Galenika. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45436	Mr. Martinovic, you are right to object, but I must ask you to understand Mr. Bozovic's pain if he is not in a position to decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45437	Mr. Martinovic, you are always welcome to join the discussion. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: What? How did you rob Galenika? ) It's not "what," it's "please."
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45439	I'm asking you to finish this now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45440	Here, just more... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45441	We have to finish. Please report to the next amendment. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic and eight MPs from the Democratic Party. Thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic and eight MPs from the Democratic Party. Thank you. Members of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic and eight MPs from the Democratic Party. Thank you. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you. The 26th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45442	Thank you, Mr. Becic. So I follow every member very closely and I talk about every member, it's very important, but I often give examples somewhere from some earlier times. What is important is that I personally suggested that paragraphs 3 and 4 be deleted because the ministry responsible for business affairs, or Mr Sertic's ministry, makes reports on the control carried out, determines the fulfillment of contractual obligations and proposes appropriate measures to the government. For this very reason, we had examples in the government from 2004 to 2007 of 23 controversial privatisations, of a total of 24. We understand each other. So, 23, here you know, during the period of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the European Commission has been disputed, which exclusively requires Serbia to solve the 23 or 24 cases at the end of the dispute. These 23 controversial privatisations are controversial because this member, i.e. this attitude, could not live in practice. For this reason, we believe that it must never be repeated that the European Commission, especially now in the accession process, reminds us that, for example. the responsible resolution ministry shall have no penalty unless it fulfils what is written in this position. So not only is it necessary for you to oversee the privatisation process, but it is necessary that if you do not respect the law, that is, the services within your ministry must be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45443	Thank you. Mr. Jovicic, do you want to follow this amendment? (Alexander Jovičić, from the place: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45444	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. We've been listening here on several occasions to a story about the PKK. Here you are, Mr. Honorable Minister, if we are talking about the PKK, the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, along with the assistance of Dragan Gilas and many of those who had the interest of the Democratic Party, of that same government, transferred land to the property of the PKK, because they knew that there would be a bypass, that a new bridge would be built, so that they could then sell that land as attractive land to their friends who brought this country into bankruptcy. That's true about the PKK, because you're constantly calling for the PKK, and that's always, you're going back to the crime scene, and that's your problem. The agricultural combination of Belgrade is no problem today, because we want it to be a successful company, to allow the company to be competitive on the market and we will do everything we can to achieve it together with the government, with ministers and with this Assembly. But you've been robbing the PKK, that's what the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia need to know. I repeat once again, that the citizens of Serbia are hearing it. Property, i.e. The republic and city land that was decided by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, and you know how the same man, along with Gilas and Tadic, shared tycoons of land, changed the ownership of the PKK to pass the bypass, and the attractive land would then be given to a new Sutanovac or the same Sutanovac to build a pasture, or to build buildings and become a large investor. That's true, and we'll never let that happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45445	Time. Thank you. You'll get the word, Mr. Minister. But look, Mr. Bozovic, what happens when you step away from the topic and the agenda, so please. I had to give Mr. Jovicic, no matter what a bit of that had gone from hurting the Rules of Procedure, I had to let a different view of the PKK problem be seen, but you, in the debate, led to the fact that we are now talking about an issue that is not in the agenda and is not the subject of the amendment. So I'm asking you to keep an eye on the next amendments so you don't cause this kind of replica. The word has Minister Sertic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45446	I have to answer to Ambassador Joviciæ. It's exactly what you said. So that land that used to belong to the city was transferred to the PKK, precisely with that idea and intent, because it wasn't the only company that was so prepared for sale and privatisation, but we changed it. This land will not be included in the property package that when the PKK is sold, we return it and will be sold in special tenders as building land, which will benefit this country from the way it used to be. And that's how privatisation is conducted, and that's why it's important for responsible people in the Ministry of Business to do their job properly in all other state bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45447	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. Members of the 26th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45448	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 26 speaks of the control of the execution of contractual obligations. Item 3 says -- the ministry responsible for business affairs forms a report on executive control, determines the fulfillment of contractual obligations and proposes appropriate measures to the government. Our amendment consists of introducing an obligation to submit a report on the proposed measures and, of course, a report on the implementation of contractual obligations to the National Assembly, especially when it comes to strategic investors. Once again, the amendment was rejected, where it is said to be Article 84. The privatisation law already exists. However, given that the measures proposed by the government, i.e. the measures proposed by the ministry, I think it would be good for all MPs to know that the implementation of the contractual obligations between the ministry and strategic investors is under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45449	Thank you. The 27th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45450	This is pretty vague what you're saying here. In Article 81, after the wording “dispersion” is deleted, the words “starting of liquidation” shall be deleted and the words “starting of liquidation” shall be deleted. Now, are those words deleted? If they're deleted and they're stuck and the words are not written, the words are deleted, or something else is going on with those words, it's really completely out of this case that we're missing the end of the sentence, so I don't know. I believe you were in a hurry. Obviously, you have given an emergency procedure of 69 laws, not you personally, but to the Government, but give a little bit of a look at those laws before they come to the Assembly or tell us what happens to the words "starting up liquidation" and add a verb to that sentence or change to see that those words and words are deleted and entangled in that case, I suppose, in that case, an amendment to this bill should be responded to, given that you sometimes hold that these lecturing interventions are a legal technical order, and sometimes they are the subject of amending and supplementing the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45451	Thank you. The National MPs together Natasa Vučković and Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Ivan Marković and together Marko Đurišić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic submitted their amendments to the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 28th amendment. Thank you. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. Members of the 29th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and the joint MPs Gordana Komic and eight DS MPs. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 30th amendment. Thank you. The 30th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted to the 31st amendment. Thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45452	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, first to thank for the adoption of such an amendment, and the proposal is to define the role of the Privatisation Agency after the suspension, that it becomes practically a dispute resolution agency. Apparently, our past has shown that the disputes are just the rest. On the other hand, the interests of the state will be represented by the State's primary defence, so that both as regards employees and people, it is precisely defined. We thank you for understanding what we are even talking about when we talk about amendments for changes and additions and the completion of the privatisation process you have had enough understanding to simply put all things in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45453	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkwo. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 31st amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45454	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 31 speaks about what happens after the Privatisation Agency is shut down. We've suggested changes in attitude 3 and suggested a removal of attitude 5. In short, we propose that the ministry take over all employees other than those assigned to representation jobs, which are taken over by the State Professorship as opposed to the Bill Proposal, which provides that the Ministry only assumes employees of the Privatisation Agency assigned to the business of privatisation, capital market and control of the execution of contractual obligations, and treats the other employees as surplus and ceases employment relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45455	Thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45456	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed to delete positions 4 and 5 with an additional explanation where employees who are not taken over within the meaning of Articles 3 and 4 of this Article shall cease their working relationship on the day of termination of the work of the Privatisation Agency with the payment of the severance payment in accordance with the law which has been made more employees in the public sector. What my proposal is, what my question is to you and why I am solely against, there is not a single word here about requalification and whether we have any analysis of what number of workers it is, since you and Mr Vujovic were talking about hundreds of thousands of employees in enterprises where they have to be restructured and to find a solution and strategic partners, you have largely failed as a government. So, are we going to have on the one hand and how many unemployed, and obviously we will, how many people will be left out of work and why we have no requalification of those workers who can move from one job to another, if their foundation, or the company's activity, has been shut down, if there is a need for workers in the public sector or in some state enterprise. It's important for us to take care of people, because when someone loses one salary, it's lost the whole family one salary, and then we have a problem with some employee who's out of a job, giving him hope that tomorrow on the labour market he'll already be able to get to that job. Jobs are gone, jobs are gone, and for this reason we are interested in how and how we will continue to take care of these people and where they will find new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45457	Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45458	I wish you'd taken such care of the workers who received 15, 20 or 25,000 dinars of wages and could have done anything in the previous few years that they have today, at least the kind of workers at the Privatisation Agency. Dear MPs, the average salary of the Privatisation Agency is over 100,000 dinars, the average salary. So over 300 employees I found at the Privatisation Agency, which seven years has not been realised by any privatisation, and that is the concern of MPs who suggest erasing this member now and thinking about the future, and I completely agree that people need to requalified, transform and will now have the opportunity to all those who have worked on these jobs, who are jobless at the Privatisation Agency, to apply all their skills on the market in the real sector and to see how it means, or what it means to do in the real sector and to fight every day for their future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45459	Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic, together with the MPs of the People's Republic of Gordana Komic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the amendment. Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. Thank you. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party. Thank you. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by Aleksandra Tomic and Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45460	Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, the proposal for this amendment that you adopted is a fundamental alignment with the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which we adopted for 2016. Since the Agency is being shut down practically on 1 February 2016, the funds that were intended are now moving precisely from certain positions to the new dispute resolution agency and the Ministry of Economy, as much as in this reciprocity that should be withdrawn. Therefore, we, in essence and financially, are in fact introducing this law into flows, on which you can implement this law that the Assembly will adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45461	Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 34th Amendment. Thank you. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 34th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45462	I would like to thank Mr. Becic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister Sertic, here in Section 4. – decision-making procedures under complaints and complaints, by those who believe that they are damaged in the privatisation process, and the Ministry of Business Affairs, which has so far not decided by these complaints and by these objections, until the day of the application of this law, will end by the provisions of this law. This cannot stand, for the simple reason that there are elements of retroactiveness, there are no sentences – if the provisions of this law are more favourable for those who have complained or objected and had objections according to the process, when it comes to the privatisation process, where they consider their rights to be compromised. So if this law, or changes and additions, and I don't know if they are, more favourable, then you can decide on them, and if they're more unfavourable, you can't, because it's retroactive, just one small legal correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45463	Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic, together with the MPs of the People's Republic of Gordana Komic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party. Thank you. Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic, together with the MPs of the People's Republic of Gordana Komic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party. Thank you. Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic, together with the MPs of the People's Republic of Gordana Komic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45464	The draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act is a bad law, and for this reason, we have proposed that this article be deleted, so that this law never actually comes into force. We believe that this law should not come into force, out of all the arguments that we have presented today and when you were changing and supplementing this law before a certain number of months ago, you and Mr Vujovic, when we said that nothing good would happen, especially for the 100,000 employees in the sector you're trying to shut down because you weren't able to find strategic partners. It is only for someone 100,000 workers, and for Serbia it is 100,000 salaries, 100,000 less wages will reduce production in Serbia. I am not sure how and how these forecasts will affect the growth of the social product in 2016 and 2017, given that by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vujovic, we have had the opportunity to hear that you are planning some big growth. So, the PKK, Dragan Markovic, IMR and many other companies in Serbia, we also have announcements when it comes to FAP in Priboj and others, because they will not be able to survive unless strategic partners are urgently found, and unfortunately, 100,000 people will be out of work in Serbia in 2016 and 2017. We find it very bad that the government's policy, when it comes to privatisation, should be referred to the period of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and when 24 controversial privatisations were. There are no controversial privatisations here, in this case shutting down these companies, because they are not privatizing themselves, but in any case, the care of workers is lacking in this government and we believe that 100,000 families in Serbia will be at risk with 100,000 less wages.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45465	Mr. Jovicic, did you get that? Injury of the Rules of Procedure or what?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45466	I am advertising Article 107, and I think that, above all, it is an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, to say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not think about workers, that you are telling the truth, that there are no strategic partners and that we are not dealing with them, and I would ask the previous speaker, whether he finds one strategic partner or not, he forgets that there is a president of the province government who represents the current regime in Vojvodina with 6% support, even less, with 5% support, who goes around the world and talks all the worst about his country. I think he'd be better off making some kind of arrangement for that same country of ours, Serbia, to make new jobs possible. As he goes around the world and talks about our country all the worst, thinking that in this way he'd bring down Alexander Vukic or our government, he'd better be doing some more concrete work than he did today with 200 people he brought before the Serbian Parliament, and you saw, in Novi Pazar 4,000 people welcomed Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. These two images tell you enough about our relationship with workers and how much workers and citizens of Serbia appreciate and respect us and what yours is. Although you tried to abuse people with someone, under the pretext of protest, and that was more like some tribune on some local board of DS, no protest was there, but that's just talking about your relationship. First you rob these people, Saric and many others you give the land for nothing, and then you bring the farmers to complain. But you saw, the chairman, that it was just a farce and that Mr. Pitiæ better be in his workplace.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45467	Time. Thank you. I didn't understand that about the local board, I think it was less than the local board in Belgrade. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45468	Thank you. Article 37 states that this law enters into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger". Since we know that this law has been applied since 1 February, we see no reason to violate the constitutional norm, which says the law has been in effect on the eighth day since the publication, and in that sense is our amendment. I'd like to hear from the minister why the law goes into effect the next day since the day of publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45469	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 68th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Right to Free Action and Money Refunds made by the Citizens in the Privatization Procedure You have received amendments submitted by the MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45470	Thank you. This suggestion is the same as the one I had earlier on one of the members of the Privatisation Act. Namely, this member is talking about the launch of a administrative dispute. We changed the name of that section. We suggest that he bears the title – right to legal remedy and to launch a administrative dispute. It is said in the article that the decisions made under this law are final and that the decisions referred to in Article 1 may be initiated by an administrative dispute within 30 days of the date of delivery of the decision. We continue to insist on introducing the possibility of a complaint to the ministry responsible for privatisation operations, because we think it is one of the basic constitutional principles. We therefore propose that the administrative procedure, as one of the final proceedings, stands, but that the right to appeal be introduced to the ministry responsible for privatisation tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45471	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45472	This is not legally possible, since all jobs are taken over by the Ministry of Business. Therefore, the Ministry of Economy cannot be competent in both the first and second appeal proceedings. That is why it is intended to automatically go to administrative dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45473	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and eight MPs of the DS Group. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45474	Thank you. In Article 8, adding a new Article 12a, we concluded that there was an error in writing the bill, and Article 8, paragraph 3, reads: "If the Ministry of Privatisation Affairs does not declare the decision referred to in Article 1 to the day of its decision, it will be considered that it attended the meeting of the Assembly of Shareholders and voted against the decision." We know that, for example. The silence of the administration means approving a decision or approving a request, but that the silence of the administration is against a decision, it's completely unclear to us. If there was no mistake, we amended the amendment that the ministry was believed to have attended the meeting of the Assembly of Shareholders and voted in favour of making that decision. You have rejected the amendment, which means we will have in our legislation and so precedent that the silence of the administration means that some state body is against making a decision or against a positive resolution of a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45475	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45476	This is neither precedent nor legal practice, nor in the practice of the ministry, or agency, since such a member has been defined for ten years, and this is about voting in companies and companies in which the stock fund has a share of capital. Since the majority is mostly minority, it's much more meaningful for him to be, and he can't as a minority partner influence key decisions, that he is just defined as a disagreement for a decision, and where it's important to agree to the fund, then someone who will attends the session is definitely sent. On the other hand, there are a large number of companies that make certain decisions, and this is a solution that we have accepted as one of the solutions. So it's been there for a really long time, because it's practical and it makes sense and in practice it's proved to be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45477	Thank you. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45478	Excuse me, was that article 14?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45479	Yes, Article 14.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45480	Well, as in the previous law, we also think that this law should take effect on the eighth day of its publication, as is the Constitution. I don't see any rush. In your answer, however, you referred to the fact that this amendment of ours cannot be adopted because it is necessary to bring this law in line with the amendments to the Privatisation Act. Since this law has been applied since 1 February 2016, I really don't see a rush on the team. ............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45481	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the proposal in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 69th item of the agenda – Proposal for a REFERENCE LAW AFTER ELEMENTARY AND OTHER ACCOUNTS You have received amendments submitted by the MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of Chapter I, the name of Article 1 and Article 1 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Thank you. Members of the 3rd and 3rd amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45482	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 3 is talking about the rebuilding aid programme. Article 2 says - State aid and reconstruction programmes are brought by the Government on a proposal from the Public Investment Management Office. We believe that state aid and reconstruction programmes establish measures and criteria for providing such assistance. I'm a procedure for rebuilding and repairing the damaged, and we don't think the Office should be the one to propose this whole thing. We think it's enough for the government to bring in a program of assistance and reconstruction without the suggestion of an office that only needs to be the one to implement it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45483	Thank you. Members of the 4th and 4th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party group. Thank you. Members of the 5th and 5th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Thank you. Members of the 5th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. Thank you. On behalf of the 6th and 6th amendments, MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45484	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister is also around here somewhere, in Article 6, each citizen is entitled to assist in the event of an elementary and other accident under conditions and in the procedure prescribed by this law. So what is also mentioned here is equality with other citizens, without discrimination. The flood recovery could have been much better arranged and done that the government of the Republic of Serbia had actually provided most of the funds. So, I would not end up breaking responsibility to those who did, as a competent authority designated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for the recovery of floods, but solely for the government's priorities, because not many funds are foreseen for reconstruction. Article 6 of the story of equality and without discrimination, everyone has the right to help. That wasn't the case when it came to the Obrenovac. So here or we're trying to correct what happened in Obrenovac, and you admit the mistake that there were citizens of the first and second categories, because we have those who got full help and we have those who are still waiting today in line for help, and citizens are Obrenovac, Paracina, Svilinca or Krugnja. We have a big problem here. Is this a law that will definitely, in any future case, never happen again, put citizens in front of the law in one single line? We have a repeat case that even today we have two thousand businessmen, that we have some citizens who were the most damaged in the central areas and border areas of Obrenovac, and to this day no assistance has been received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In order for these things not to happen, we need to give a much more serious bill of law, so that never again such a shameful restoration as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45485	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. Members of the 7th and 7th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party group. Thank you. Members of the 8th and 8th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party group. Thank you. Members of the 9th and 9th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party group. Thank you. Members of the 10th and 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Comic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party. Thank you. On behalf of Chapter II above Article 11, the name of Article 11 and Article 11 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Comic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party group. Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party group. Thank you. Members of the 13th and 13th amendments, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, and joint MPs of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45486	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, in terms of the rationalisation of the state administration, we have submitted amendments not to set up a Public Investment Management Office, because we do not feel that there is a need for a bunch of state apparatus, but to be able to do so by the Commission of Government, and that is precisely those people who are already on the payroll of the state and who do not have to receive some new salaries for their work. So, we proposed that state aid and reconstruction programmes be brought by the Government, but that there is no Commission on Public Investment Management, because we think that it is completely unnecessary and that only multiple the number of state bodies and organisations and the process itself seems inefficient. If we already have a ministry, if we have a minister without a portfolio, why are we going to have another office, the Public Investment Management Office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45487	Thank you. Members of the 14th and 14th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party group. Thank you. Members of the 15th and 15th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party group. Thank you. Members of the 16th and 16th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party group. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45488	Thank you. Mr. Becicu, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, the local self-government unit, this section refers to the assessment of the damage, without delay, educates the required number of commissions. The unit of local self-government, in this case, was not Obrenovac municipality, but Belgrade City. So, the unit of local self-government is the City of Belgrade, but we have a big problem because often the commissions, in this case the Obrenovac municipality, worked very politicised and kept an account and shared the citizens of the first and second order. What we had a chance to see is that for this reason, which has not been largely affected, some have received funds long before those who have been hit to a much greater extent. Today we have tenant rights holders. Today we have tenants who are not satisfied with the way the municipality, the city, or the Republic came into contact with the damage that occurred during the May floods. What's important is that the required number of commissions must be supervised. The number of commissions required, however many, should not be politicised, and we are very well aware that there are members of political organisations. Often, the most embarrassing thing happens is abuse in the worst cases, like this, abuses happen. We had a chance to read in the media that some citizens got everything without others getting absolutely nothing. Let's not make laws that will edit so that whoever has a political relationship can be saved from some elemental accident, and whoever doesn't can't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45489	Members of the 17th and 17th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić and seven MPs of the DS group. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45490	That we don't just turn out to be critical, here's a good member, and we're from a kind of inability to discuss and that we really do this legal solution well, because we think that everyone has to find time to talk about such important issues. Since we haven't had time to talk, we've suggested that this law be put out of force. But there are good things in this law too, and this Article 17 is exactly what I said at the end of Article 16 in my previous speech. So, Article 17 is a verification of the damage assessment. This is precisely important for the simple reason that the commissions are often politicized and do something called political restoration, not really essential and true, from what is called a elemental disaster. So, if we share people in these hardships to members of one party or another then there is absolutely no fair society, then there is absolutely no society in Serbia anymore. For this reason, this member is very good, and I completely welcome him here, because I think it is very important that from different levels we have to control the reconstruction processes from whatever levels they come from, whether it is a question of local self-government, whether it is a city municipality, whether it is a republican level, everyone has to oversee those commissions that in this case have the public good of Serbia. For this reason, I fully welcome this member and believe that in this part of the law, this law is very, very correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45491	Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go, Mr. Sertice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45492	Given how much you criticized what the office did in the previous period, I will only give a few information, simply not to forget what it was during last year's floods and the catastrophic state that we had throughout Serbia, and we can easily remember what was in the King's office and how the restoration was going, since there were arrests afterwards and court proceedings are still under way. It is simply not to forget that the material aid paid for and recovered within the reconstruction of more than 44m euros, that 20,695 households throughout Serbia were granted material aid, that the Red Cross gave more than 330m dinars, that the value of the work in rebuilding houses was more than 10m euros, that 458 families were taken care of, that for 776 even tenant families were given aid of 55m dinars. We helped businesses through the 1987 Development Fund with over 500 million dinars, all of which were international organisations and our domestic organisations, such as Transparency, but also the Citizens' Protector gave all praise that all processes, all public procurements were done on time and clean enough, clear enough to deserve the highest marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45493	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group. Here you go, Mr. Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45494	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, since you've already stated all this and there are some results we can't really dispute, what is the minister of emergency situations for? If we double both the Office and the Minister have the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, which are to rebuild and do all of this, what is the minister for? He's got some budget, some cabinet and some drivers, I hope you gave him a driver, because last year he complained about not having a driver. So, I'm not coming out of the amendment, Mr. Chairman, but I'm just saying whether we don't need the office or we don't need a minister. We have defined that the Office is a great ballast and that the process of renewal, therefore, we understand, the Office for Public Investment Management and that the existence of that office will make the procedure ineffective and therefore I propose an amendment to Article 17 that instead of the Office, this work is done by committees made by the competent ministers, and then by the Minister of Emergency, that you give some work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45495	Thank you. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to the 18th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45496	Thank you. The chairman, distinguished ministers, honored guests, if the party that has been called neatly does not respond to the call rather than justify its absence, will be deemed to be in agreement with the verified minutes. This, for example. It wasn't in the King's case, and that is now the case in any subsequent case of an elemental accident. So, those who restored the King, Mr. Sertice, wrote this law, to let you know. The people who restored the King without any affair, the acquittal was, they wrote this law, and we welcome it. We welcome that. Mr. Milan Markovic, first of all, is very familiar to you, one of the best ministers in the government of Mr. Cvetkovic. So in this case, we have a great example of how a good restoration of a terrible elemental accident was done. It's the King's. All we wanted was for that model to be transferred to Obrenovac, Parachin, Krupanj, number one. Under number two, the next thing that is very, very important to all those who were once victims of natural disasters is the following, not Mr Blagojevic or the Office, and there I do not want to agree with those who claim it, had more responsibility than the Government of the Republic of Serbia. How much money you gave them they did it and I mean largely that they gave their maximum. But I just think that the priorities should be distributed differently. Often local self - administrations were those who were unable to meet their tasks, and somewhere they were doing very well, but we can't blame the office or individuals for everything. So, we're all more responsible together to get better quality... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45497	Mr. Bozovic, can I talk to you about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45498	... The solution didn't come before this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45499	Parliamentarians Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić and seven MPs of the DS Group together submitted to the 19th amendment. Thank you. To Article 20. The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Thank you. Members of the 21st and 21st Amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Thank you. The National MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovan Markovic, together submitted the title of Article 22 and Article 22 of the amendment. Thank you. Members of the 23rd and 23rd amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 23rd amendment. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This member speaks of public information on state aid. So in its first and second attitude, it shows the obligations of the local self-government unit in which they should do so. In its opinion, three says - the office is obliged to ensure that all information on the inflows of donor funds, donors, paid payments and recipients of money, i.e. goods and services is available via the Internet presentation. Given that it is state money, we think that this position of this member should be changed, and should be read – the government is obliged to publish all sources and amounts of funds, dynamics and methods of spending on its internet presentation and on the internet presentation of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the type and extent of the estimated and reported damage and the territory in which the damage occurred, or where it was assessed and reported, and the detailed report is submitted to the National Assembly once a month, until the end of the process of removing the consequences of the elementary disasters. This amendment is a partial alignment with the amended Article 13. The bill, where our proposal is to make it clear to the Government that it is she who should take care of how and inform the public, of course and to inform the National Assembly of the use of state aid, i.e. sources of funding and other types of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45501	Thank you. On behalf of Article 24 and Article 24 of the amendment, the MP group DS submitted. Thank you. The National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic together. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45502	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This amendment shall be in accordance with the amendments submitted before that to Articles 13 and 17. And again I ask the same question – what is the job of a minister without a portfolio in charge of emergency situations? Mr. Secretary's silence means he's not doing anything, because he's likely to be able to raise himself with some result probably his colleagues here right now might be able to tell us something. So, to be clear, Mr. Minister has cited and explained some of the results that the office had in the recovery of flood damage, but this is where the Office for the Aid and Reconstruction of Flood Areas was talked about, and we are talking about that the Office for Public Investment Management should not exist, but that its work should be done by a commission made up of competent ministers. So, I would also like to change this amendment not to the office, but to have the commission made by the competent ministers submit to the Government for each session of the government, not once every three months, because we believe that this deadline left over from three months can sometimes be very long and that it can be delayed to react if certain damages occur, so that the Commission submits to the Government for each session in the government, a report during the procedure, grant state aid, number of users and estimates of damages, as well as a final report after the end of the procedure of granting state aid. We also predict that reports submitted by a committee made up of competent ministers are published on the government's website and I really don't see what is controversial in this amendment, except perhaps my question - what are the results of a minister without a portfolio in charge of emergency situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45503	Thank you. On behalf of Article 25, the 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by 11 MPs of the DS Group. Thank you. On behalf of Article 26, the 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by 11 MPs of the DS Group. Thank you. On behalf of Article 27, the 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by 11 MPs of the DS Group. Thank you. 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted together to Article 28 of the amendment. Thank you. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Thank you. On behalf of the 30th and Article 30 of the amendment, 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted together. Thank you. At the title of Chapter 3 above Articles 31 and of the 31st Amendment, the MPs of the 11 MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of 11 MPs of the DS Group. Thank you. The 33rd amendment in the same text was brought together by MPs from the DS parliamentary group and MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. Here you go. National MP Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45504	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, since our idea is that the Office for Reconstruction does not exist, but that this work is done by the Commission of Government, according to the amendment we have proposed to Article 13, we propose this amendment to delete Article 33. He actually says this - the office will take over employees and appointed persons on the day of entry into force of this law from the Office for the Assistance and Reconstruction of Flooding Areas, as well as the rights of obligations of objects, equipment, means of work and archive. So our proposal is to form a commission instead of the government's office to deal with it, and we think that this member is also unnecessary in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45505	Thank you. 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted together to Article 34 of the amendment. Thank you. 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted together to Article 35 of the amendment. Thank you. 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted together to Article 36 of the amendment. Thank you. Both MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the amendment. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic, master of Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45506	Thank you. As in previous laws here, we also think it is unnecessary to say, or to say that this law enters the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". I do not think that the Constitution should be violated and that this member should be amended by standing on the eighth day instead of the words - the next one. We propose that this law enter into force on the eighth day of the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger". “ I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45507	Thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 70th point of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the temporary regulation of how to charge a fee for public media service. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Culture and Information, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the amendment bill, MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, 10 MPs, together submitted the amendments. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45508	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, the SDS MP Boris Tadic has submitted an amendment to the bill's proposal, and we believe that the name of the bill should be changed and it should be said – the law governing how to charge a fee for public media service. We do not feel that it is necessary in the name of the bill to have a provision - temporary. The law shall be adopted for a period of validity and until the expiry of the period or until a new law on the same matter is passed and it shall apply. The explanation the government has given that it does not accept this amendment, I think, is inadequate because this is where the question is raised, i.e. In the government's explanation, it is said that it is a matter of removing circumstances that could put the work and functioning of public media services and of performing the basic activity of these services, which is in the role of achieving public interest. Then the question arises – which is why the RS government suspended the RTS subscription two years ago or three years ago and is now trying to re-introduce the subscription with this law and temporarily. This raises the question – is it in some way the counterservice that happens these days where RTS excludes transmission whenever opposition MPs speak, or is it something else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45509	The MPs Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Balša Bozovic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and National MP Dr Janko Vesenovic, submitted to the amendment in the same text. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45510	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Now look, Mr. Sertice, since you are still authorized under this law, what have you done? In 2014, on 2 August, we adopted the Law on Public Media Services, which very detailedly regulates the way in which the public media service fees were charged and that on 2 August 2014, we adopted it in complete contrast with what is proposed by this law. This law, adopted on 2 August 2014, is due to be applied from 1 January 2016 and the provisions of this law that we are now adopting which is completely opposite should take effect the next day from the date of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" and I assume that it will probably be the same about 1 January 2016. So, on 1 January 2016, we are starting to apply the provisions on the charge of public media services, which are completely opposed to each other. In this law that we adopted in 2014, we predict that some payments are being made, so that citizens fill it out, so it's prescribed who makes the way the payments look, etc., and here we completely adopt another payment method. I don't know if you're going to charge the citizens now. I mean, we wouldn't be surprised either, given that almost everything we've adopted at this session is going in that justice that citizens are getting more and more paid, but please decide which of these two laws will start to apply from 1 January 2016, because they're totally the opposite.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45511	Thank you, time. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45512	Dear ladies and gentlemen, good evening, let me first say, and ask if anyone may in the meantime have found out where and what the Minister of Culture and Information Ivan Tasovac is doing, who is not here to defend on behalf of the Government a bill concerning the detour of his jurisdiction, gentlemen. My first note on the amendment to Article 1, to hear Mr. Martinovic, too, concerns it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45513	It's an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45514	The second thing, Minister Tasovac wrote a bill that reads in article 1. The bill temporarily regulates how to charge a fee for public media service. Temporarily arranged, gentlemen. Gentlemen, the frequency of changing the plans of the law is, in my court, the testimony of an unserious and irresponsible action in politics. Testimony, honored gentlemen, one wandering into politics. Well, here we are in December 2014, respected gentlemen, and previously in August 2014, and at the end of July 2014, right now from the minister who has not heard that we are accessing the reform amendments of the Information Act, on public services, and after that we have approached the amendments to those regulations that are said to be reform regulations. Then we have obtained a condition here to say, well, these are no reform regulations, but the rags of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45515	What's matter, I apologize, Article 1?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45516	Matter is a temporary adjustment of how to charge a fee for public media service...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45517	Well, at least one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45518	Here, it says in Article 1, the esteemed president of the National Assembly. Where's the minister to defend his bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45519	I know what it says. I'm going to shut you down now. It's not the subject of the First Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45520	So, where is he to defend the bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45521	Now he will come, and Minister Sertic has been authorized, not to return...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45522	Well, let me hear Minister Sertic say what he's going to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45523	He wants to hear more opinions. Members of the Parliamentary Group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45524	Thank you, Madam President. For the sake of the public, I'd like to read Article 1. He says: "This law temporarily regulates the way in which public media service fees are charged, with the aim of removing circumstances that could lead to the work and functioning of public media services and the exercise of their basic activity which is in the role of achieving public interest." Our amendment stipulates that the word "temporary" from this article is deleted. But I'd like to ask you something else about this member. Who has led us to the situation that after a year and a half we have to introduce lex specialis, i.e. to bring lex specialis, and with regard to the collection of fees for public media service, and we have passed a set of media laws, including the Public Media Services Act, which states that on January 1, 2016, a fee will be started? I'm asking who's responsible because we're in a situation where Article One reads like this? He says in his second part -- with the aim of removing circumstances that could challenge the work and functioning of public media services. I would really like the Minister of Culture and Information to be there, so that he can give us more answers to these very questions that opposition MPs are asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45525	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic and Balša Bozovic and together Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and Janko Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45526	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable ministers you found appropriate to come, unlike Minister Tasovac, in Article 2 from 1 January to 31 December 2016, public media service and public media institution RTS will have, or 150 dinars will be paid as a tax by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is another unfulfilled SNS promise not to pay taxes when it comes to public media service. We have asked questions several times why, if not only did you promise, but also why and what exactly are Serbian citizens funding for? We have, under number one, the fact that direct transfers of the National Assembly are often lifted. Under number two, we have the fact that the very tax makes Serbian citizens pay some suspicious personnel in RTS. One of them arrived as a proposal from the Republican Broadcasting Agency, a certain Simo Culic, head of the SNS Internet team, who should be a member of the RTS Management Board... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45527	You know why I'm shutting you down? Because you don't stick to Article 2 at all. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: For what? Well, that's Article 2. – payment of fees from January... It is, and you're talking about the board of directors. Yesterday we had an incident because I allegedly don't follow the rules of procedure, so I'm trying to please the MPs somehow. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: Only two sentences left. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45528	Thank you. So, just two more sentences. The first is that citizens of the Republic of Serbia have the right to know what it is that they finance, on the one hand. On the other hand, is this temporary funding going to be able to change somehow, so from a temporary point of view, we get into someone else temporarily where the tax is going to be higher? So we have big problems to explain to people, you actually have a problem explaining to people exactly what a 150-dollar tax per household means and how and how and how Serbian citizens pay their commitments, which we end up seeing here are not transparent because of certain human resources as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45529	Thank you. The word is made by MP Veroljub Arsic, a time of authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment like this shows the senselessness of all of what the representatives of the former regime are doing. So this is about temporary financing of RTS and tv. I don't see what's so controversial about it. So now what's transferred is that their tax was 500 dinars, and now it's 150 dinars. Well, you want 500 again? We won't. Why is it going that deadlines are limited? Well, because the public finance reform process is currently under way in Serbia and it is difficult to secure from the budget all means of radio-television, i.e. Public service, as you call it. So it's hard to secure all needs of resources, and it's about 12 billion dinars per year. At the same time, it would be very unserious to charge from the citizens of 500 dinars, which you want, because these amendments are what you want. It would be very unserious to burden the domestic budgets of Serbian citizens because there is currently an economic crisis that is caused by poor country leadership by 2012. This has nothing to do with the transfers of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remember perfectly well that from March of 2003 until the end of September 2003 there was no transmission session of the National Assembly. It is an obvious example of how the Democratic Party behaves when it is in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45531	The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45532	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Minister Tasovac wrote to us in Article 2: "From 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016, the public media institution RTS and the public media institution RTV are partly financed from public media service fees and partly from the budget of the Republic of Serbia". We have proposed, and here I am, and now I suggest that there is no fee, that there is no subscription, but that the independence and autonomy of the public service is ensured by the introduction into the law, that a certain percentage of the budget goes to financing the public service. When the editor-in-chief of the public service knows that he has secure money for the next year, at a certain percentage of the budget, will he be more concerned about political influences, respected gentlemen, or less? Or, gentlemen, to ask you in another way this question, when the editor-in-chief, for example RTS, gets different messages from Sunday to Sunday, from month to month, there will be a tax of 500 dinars, there will be a tax of 150 dinars, there will be no subscription, there will be no tax, then does he think more about possible political influences in that situation, or not? Minister Tasovac, such proposals, such actions, strengthens the possibility of political influence on public media services, and our proposal is to eliminate this, by precisely setting a percentage of the budget for each year to define, respected gentlemen, for public media services. Here, I would like to hear, and Minister Sertic and any MP, what is the problem with that proposal? Why can't it be accepted here, gentlemen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45533	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45534	Thank you, Madam President, the SDS parliamentary group – Boris Tadic has submitted an amendment to Article 2 and we believe that Article 1 changes and reads: "From 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016, public media service and this, the public media institution Radio Television Serbia, in the following text, RTS, the public media institution Radio Television Vojvodina, in the following text, is financed from the public media service fee from the budget of the Republic of Serbia." Which is why we have submitted such an amendment, first of all because of the definition, partly at the source of funding, because the point is that this provision should be deleted. We see no reason to stand in part, and if we saw here that in talks with the IMF and where it was recommended by the IMF to consider that the Serbian population's paying power is such that, unfortunately, it will not be able to fully and fully charge the tax. So we believe that this amendment is a good one and a reason why this amendment is accepted is absolutely unacceptable to us, because we believe that the Government is in the right way, and above all, the Ministry of Culture has not examined these amendments proposed by our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45535	Thank you. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Balša Bozovic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45536	Thank you, Madam President, we have proposed that Article 3 be deleted. I'm very sorry Minister Tasovac isn't here to answer any questions. We simply have the view that the tax on public media services cannot be charged by the EPS, because it is not a service provided by the EPS, so it cannot be charged. Right? Not to go back to the papers, since 1 March 2013, where it says: "RTS only subscribes over me dead," then the first Deputy Prime Minister. And, in order that he wouldn't come into this situation to be life-threatening, because apparently the subscription or tax will be charged, we suggested that this member be deleted in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45537	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45538	I thank you, Article 3 of paragraphs 1 and 2 reads: "The tax on public media services is charged by "Electro-price of Serbia" and continues to be charged to users through the bill for electricity supplied by suppliers. At the same time in Article 41 of the Law, which we do not put out of force by adopting this law, it is said that public media service will be delivering 12 tax forms for the next calendar year to each debtor by the end of the current calendar year, and then they will talk about what the bonds there will do with those forms. So we have two members, two different laws that are absolutely opposite. I really, don't know who's going to answer, just tell me, please, if we don't lay down the provisions of this law that we passed a year and a half ago off the force in which RTS and TV are said to send to payment viewers through which they will pay, in which way it will be charged through an electricity bill. I'm saying, it wouldn't be surprising if this government made a decision that citizens would pay one and the other taxes, so that they would pay through the electricity bill and that RTS was sending them patterns that they needed to fill out every month, as well as any other account. On the side that we really have the promise of Alexander Vukic that television subscription, as I promised the citizens of Serbia, will be abolished because I do not belong to that type of people who have cheated on citizens of Serbia for 12 years and only dealt with marketing tricks. It's our obligation not to give up. Alexander Vukic's promise doesn't have much power, because they've shown themselves to be what they are. These duchessones have an extremely great power, they're directly opposed or one put out of force or the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45539	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45540	Dear ladies and gentlemen, with the content of article 3 of this bill, Minister Tasovac tells us he has discovered one thing and at the same time sends us two unacceptable messages. This is what Article 3 says - public media service fees are charged by the public company Elektroprivreda Srbija and by business entities that provide final customers with electricity. So, Mr. Tasovac tells us, there's no TV without electricity. And it is now a great discovery for all of us, but with that discovery of two unacceptable messages, gentlemen, I read in article 3 of this bill. First, Minister Tasovac tells us here and that is the minister who is in absentia, he says -- the media is the Praetorian Guard of every government. Then he acts in politics to realize this message and idea, respected gentlemen today, in 2015 in the 21st century. And another unacceptable message, Minister Sertic, I think it may also concern your resistor, delirquent and your jurisdiction. Here, Mrs. Jerkov made this precise argument, this bill states one proposal for a solution to one problem, and another proposal for a law, in fact, we already have another way of solving the same problem. And what we are now coming to, gentlemen, is that, by accepting Minister Sertic, this proposal will give us the discrepancies of two laws. We, honored gentlemen and here, will address the lawyers first and foremost, to enter the field of no law in our political system. Well, can we think about what the consequences are, if there's no law here, so I think we should stop entering that state, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45541	Thank you. Together, Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic and Balša Bozovic, together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, submitted an amendment to the same text. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45542	Thank you, Madam President. Here we go again. The tax is a mandatory element of a monthly electricity bill and in a law that also applies on the same day as this proposal can actually be applied on the same day as this bill. By the end of the current calendar year, public media service provides 12 forms for payment of fees for the following calendar year. So it's explained how citizens pay for it there, etc. A very precise procedure in the law we passed, which is not put out of force. So, in 2016, citizens will receive 12 forms, which they need to fill out to pay RTS and from 1 January 2016, they will pay the citizens of RTS via an electricity bill. Mr. Sertic, will the citizens pay both of these charges? Will they pay through the electricity bill and the bonds sent to them by RTS? In case that's not how you're gonna put these two laws out of force? The same day, both laws begin to apply. Why doesn't the transitional and final provisions of this law that we're adopting today say that it won't apply the provisions of this law that speak of payments that RTS will send to citizens? I mean, this is a simple thing now, I don't know, it's not a matter of politics, it's a simple matter of logic, where we have two laws whose provisions begin to apply on the same day that are completely opposed to each other and opposite. Someone will break the law, or RTS that will not send bonds or EPS that will illegally charge citizens revenue that does not belong to the EPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45543	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45544	Thank you, Madam President. Unfortunately, a year and a half ago, our mouths were full of praise, through a adopted set of media laws, but this is a flagrant violation of one of them. I will not repeat what my colleague Jerkov said, but I will only read Article 4 which says – the tax is a mandatory element, a monthly electricity bill for all suppliers carrying out the activity of supplying final customers with electricity on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and in the second position – the amount of the tax shown on the account referred to in Article 1 does not enter into the basis of the excise and value added tax. Yu, upside down, to account for both excise duties and VAT. However, an interesting explanation is typical of all our rejected amendments. Then there is Minister Tasovac and his ministry to justify that this is the most comprehensive solution, otherwise this is the most popular word in the last year and a half, that the deadline is January 1st, that there is no time for any other solution. However, there is another major problem. Do Minister Tasovac and the director of RTS talk at all? Do Mr. Tasovac and Mr. Bujosevic know that there is a Law on Public Media Services that obligates both to adhere to? And not like this, a few days before January 1st, you come to us with a Lex specialise, of course, without a minister, competent with culture and information and a minister who defends silence. So, we MPs, the opposition, want answers to all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45545	Thank you. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45546	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I think this bill and the content of article 4 really requires a terrible concern for all MPs. Here are further illogicalities, gentlemen. In Article 4(1), the tax is a mandatory element of the monthly electricity bill for all suppliers carrying out the activity of supplying final customers with electricity in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and then of course it is linked to the existence of economic operators that supply final customers, and that is not the EPS. So what are these other business entities? There was talk here about such entities, Mrs. Gojkovic, being gone. They've been abolished and now we have one complete illogicality in this bill something that doesn't exist and that needs to perform a certain function. When we add this, gentlemen, I and I understand Minister Sertic, this issue is not part of the scope of his jurisdiction, but that is why it is worrying for us, I think, when the minister from whose jurisdiction comes the bill, which has so much illogicalness, is not here tonight to defend the bill. When we add a discrepancy to this proposal with what is a valid law that will apply from January 1st, then there is no doubt that even a citizen, I think, should be concerned. And then I come up with a third argument for Article 4. Here's what Minister Tasovac said, he says -- and only when it's modeled, this is the word of Minister Tasovac, and only when the example of Bus plus is introduced RTS plus, which is now, as soon as the municipal police start beating houses, that's what Minister Tasovac said. . That's my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45547	I know, but it has nothing to do with amendment Article 4. ‘repeal’. That could have been in the principle debate. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: He is at a crossroads with himself) E, op-op-op. So please, please, please. I didn't expect that from you. I know, but you're being denied by conjugal actions. You wanted to say something offensive. Please don't. Kiriq, I didn't do the conjugal shop. I made the person behind you. Thank you. Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45548	Dear MPs, I will not enter into a debate with you regarding the legal interpretation of one, another law, etc., but I will repeat in a few sentences what was an explanation when we talked about the law in principle. So it is very important for us as the Serbian Government to ensure that public services are functioning, so RTS and RTS. It takes a lot of money and a lot of money to fund today's system as it exists, and you know that neither RTS nor RTTV have launched any reforms and we don't see any way of doing it. But since this situation is what it is, we have to provide the means to function. In talks with the International Monetary Fund and budgeting for this year, we have been given suggestions and opinions that and the proposal, that a part of the functioning funds should be based on the budget so that the tax paid by citizens is minimal and which would be such a character that the largest number of citizens can pay it. For that reason, it's also in the law here, and you remember that only until a day ago, two in the media are a lot of stories about how much tax it's going to be, whether it's going to be 500 dinars again, how it's going to be spent in what way. So we here in law very and simply put that tax of 150 dinars. This is a temporary law, so just for a year until the rules are adopted that will work in the next period. What is also important is to tell the citizens of Serbia. These 150 dinars don't use VAT. So, in the electric energy bills when all the calculations are put in and the VAT is added to that by pure 150 dinars, so there will be no single dinar outside of this. Why is it going like this? Because setting up a system of distribution, billing, any other system would cost a lot more and the funds would be poured out on charges, not through efficient public service work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45549	Time, thank you. Members of Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic and Balša Bozovic, together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic, together with MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, and Professor Janko Veseinovic, together with this group, submitted the 5th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45550	Thank you, Madam President. We suggest you delete this amendment. A colleague just threw it away and said, "and he stays alive". It is said in our people: “It is consensual and it remains alive. ” We still believe that the tax for the Public Media Service cannot be charged by the EPS, because it is not a service provided by the EPS, so it cannot be charged by itself, but I still remind you that the RTS subscription will be introduced only through the dead then first Deputy Prime Minister, a statement from March 1, 2013 and that by chance something bad would happen to him, we predicted that this member of the law would be deleted, that he would not be life-threatening, because he promised the citizens that there would be no subscription for RTS, and it is obvious that our citizens will pay a certain fee for RTS from January 1st of the following year.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45551	The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45552	Thank you. Here, Article 5 again – monthly invoiced amount of the tax, supplier, which is the EPS or business entities that supply electricity, shall be charged to the accounts of RTS and RTV, open to the business bank, no later than 15 in the month, for the previous month. First of all, Mr. Sertić, you may know that the economic operators that supply final customers with electricity are, as I would say, to cease to exist. That's exactly what we've talked about here many times. Secondly, you have now said a few things, firstly, that you will not enter into the fact that two different laws have been in force since January 1st. Unfortunately, you have to get into it, because that's the point of this problem. Anything else that you're right, and you're wrong, everything else you're right, on January 1, 2016, you're starting to apply two completely different ways of charging fees for Serbia's Radio-Television. You say this law will only be valid for a year. First, where does it say that? It doesn't say anything in this bill. That's what you might think it's going to be for a year, maybe you're hoping it'll be worth a year, maybe you know it'll be worth a year, but in this bill, it doesn't say it's going to be worth a year. Even if what you say is true, it will all be true for a year, Mr Sertic, whether members from 37 to 42 begin to apply on 1 January 2016. The law on public media services, and if not, what law have we put out of force of the law or are we going to pass? It's possible you'll be in the Assembly in two days and looking for...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45553	He won't, he won't. Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45554	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have had to intervene with the amendment to Article 5 in which it writes – the monthly invoiced amount of the supplier's tax is paid to RTS and RTV, open to the business bank no later than 15 a month for the previous month. Minister Sertic, let's imagine that you are right that it is really well estimated that the burden of 500 dinars would be too high, and there is no money in the budget to finance the Public Service. Let's just say that you're right about this and let's say that it's a good estimate that it should be a tax of 150 dinars, there remains a huge problem that we point to both Mrs Jerkov and Mr Senic and I, that despite what we see here, if we imagine this is a good proposal, there is another legal solution that has already been accepted and which, by the law's power, must be applied. It was necessary, Minister Sertic, that if this solution of one problem is already proposed, then to look at what else is written in the laws, so that the Law on Public Media Services is amended and complemented to the National Assembly, so that all legal solutions are adapted to the way in which the problem is solved as provided for in this bill. I think it would be best if this bill was withdrawn because of its discrepancies with the other law in the same area, to schedule a new session as soon as possible, to prepare proposals to supplement and amend the Law on Public Media Services, in order to have a well-founded rule of law here, gentlemen. Minister Sertic, I think it's so obvious that it doesn't even allow any further excessive argument. You know what the only way out of this situation is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45555	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45556	I don't know, there are many questions asked here again, which are very clearly written in these 12 points of the bill. In point 2) reads - from 1 January 2016, honourable Members, until 31 December 2016, etc. That's exactly a year. So this law applies only to the period next year, from January 1st to December 31st. That's one question you asked, that it doesn't say anywhere that this law will last a year and you objected to my opinion. If you had read more carefully, you could find in Article 11(2) a clarification of this question as to what the law applies and what it says – as regards the financing of the basic activity of the public media service, which is not specifically governed by this law, the relevant provisions of the Law on Public Media Services are applied accordingly. So it's very clear and precisely defined that only this law over the next year defines the way the fees are charged exactly as we have now explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45557	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45558	Now, we've come to this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Article 4 is being deleted. So they don't read what the law says. If they had read the law, they would have known that the validity of the law was determined by Article 2. If they had read the law, they would know that Article 11 paragraph 2 states which law is applied in what situation. But the problem is that MPs of the former regime didn't even read the laws when they voted for them, and worse still, they don't read the laws when they write amendments on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45559	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The 6th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic and Balša Bozovic and jointly Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and MP Janko Vesenovic. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45560	Thank you. Does the Law on Public Media Services adopted in 2014 in this Assembly begin to apply on 1 January 2016, which says that RTS will send out payments, 12 payments, each month of which citizens will pay a service fee, or on 1 January 2016, to apply the provisions of this Bill, where taxes are said to be paid directly on the electricity bill? If the provisions of this law apply, when did we adopt in this Assembly a law that we said would not apply the provisions of the laws on payments from 1 January 2016? It's just a topic, it's just a question, and it's a matter of logic, not politics, not anything else, it's a matter of logic, it's a matter of law, and anyone who's honest can admit that this is one illogical thing, which I think is really a thing, I just don't know, it's amazing that we're even talking about this so much, because it's the most logical thing in the world that one of these laws pulls back or one of these laws puts off. On 1 January, the provisions are not fully contrary to both laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45561	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45562	Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment to Article 6 and to discuss this amendment, we are bound to the same tax argument. Mr. Arsic and Mr. Sertić have now explained to us that Article 11(2)'s stance is that, when it comes to this law on public media services, this proposal to temporarily regulate the way in which public media service fees are actually charged is actually put out of force by the provisions of the Law on Public Media Services, which overlap with what is the solution to this bill. But I think, gentlemen, it may be an interpretation, but it doesn't have to be the only interpretation. For example, if a citizen, for some reason, and there were many such, decides not to pay, for example, a fee, here, let Mr. Arsic tell us, or Mr. Sertic, which law to call, with an explanation not to pay, for example, a tax that is now arranged, 150 dinars? Here, I beg you, dear gentlemen, to explain it here. Even if I accept Mr. Arsic's explanation, then it just means that we're actually making rags out of the law here. Because, with one draft law that temporarily regulates something, we are now putting aside a law that Minister Tasovac has presented here as reforming, which will illuminate Serbia from all sides, to ensure freedom of speech, expression of opinion, etc. Is that... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45563	By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45564	This is all, Mrs. Gojkovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45565	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45566	I have also prepared carefully to discuss this bill, that every word and sentence accurately paints this analysis of me. And you agree with me, I see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45567	Especially about this enlightenment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45568	My fellow Members, if the amendment promoter had read the entire article 6 he would have known what it was about, and not what he wrote, it was deleted. I respect that desire for MPs to write – it is deleted, it is the way they fight politically. But at least let them read what they're asking for to be erased. Because he has submitted the same amendment to Article 8 – it is deleted, and the issue of liberation is regulated by Article 8. The law says well, Article 11 is governed by the parts of which the law applies. And those who write the amendments — they are wiped out, of course, by the head, because our people say: “It is for nothing to wink and whisper deafly. ” It's a folk's letter, and now it's proof that it's true. Please, let them engage the prominent lawyers, not the political ones, but the real ones, put before them one law and another, so that people can explain something to them and teach them to prepare them for the meetings of the Assembly, to have quality discussions, not just political discussions. And quality and political debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45569	By amendment, MP, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45570	I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45571	Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Vesna Marjanović, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković and Balša Bozovic, together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together by MPs of the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS and MP Dr Janko Veseinović. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45572	Article 7: ‘The supplier shall pay a monthly fee of 3% of the amount of the amount transferred to RTS and to RTS on the basis of the fee’. Now not only are citizens no longer paying over some of the payments that RTS sends them, as defined by the law that enters into force in five days, but now the supplier, or the EPS, is taking here now, but also some kind of commission for a service it is carrying out under the law that goes into effect for the same five days. What you're saying is in article 11, I don't think that's in Article 11. It does not say anywhere whether from 1 January 2016 citizens are paying a fee for RTS under one law, or paying under another law, and at that moment both laws will apply. Another thing – what about non-paying citizens? Who's gonna sue them? Will they be sued by RTS? Who's gonna charge those debts? Is it RTS or that supplier, EPS or whatever, that's defined by this law? By what law will these people answer? Will he be responsible for the electricity bill or for the bills? Knowing you, we wouldn't be surprised that this is because you're going to start from January 1st in both ways to charge taxes, so let people pay by one law and by another, because money is never enough, especially those money that citizens pay with reduced salaries and pensions. The simple question, one only, remains irresponsible – do citizens pay RTS via an electricity bill on 1 January 2016?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45573	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45574	Thank you, Madam President. Article 7 reads: ‘The supplier shall pay a monthly fee of 3% of the amount of the amount transferred to RTS and RTS on the basis of the fee’. I, like my colleague Jerkov, wonder if the citizens, or during January of the month, will receive the payments provided for by the Public Media Service Act? I find the argument given, which is typical, which, among other things, says: “In this sense, the tax on public media services as a public income will be temporarily charged by suppliers, final customers, electricity, and public services will conclude with the supplier a contract that will be closer to the regulation of the tax invoice, payment of funds”, etc., etc. It is likely that these 3% of the amounts paid to the service provider will be part of the agreement. However, I have another question, a hypothetical question – what will happen the moment, for example, when Minister Tasovac is not spoken to the EPS director, Mr. Obradovic? What if Mr. Bujosevic and Mr. Obradovic are in a fight? I'd like to know who's going to arbitration in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45575	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45576	I have no other way, since Mr. Arsic also tried to explain, and I have tried several times and I will repeat again now – to the citizens of Serbia, so from January 1st, only one tax of 150 dinars will be charged through an electric number. There is no other document, no other law, which defines that from 1 January to 31 December 2016 they will be charged, through some kind of payment or something else. So, respected citizens, there's no need to be afraid for anything that you're going to get double, and especially not that you're going to get 500 dinar payments, as long as they were up until recently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45577	Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanović, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković and Balša Bozovic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and National MP Dr Janko Veselinović. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45578	Mrs. Gojkovic, I'm asking you now to intervene. The minister said that we are falsely speaking, we are falsely saying that the Law on Public Media Services was adopted, which was published in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia No. 83/214 and 103/215, in which article 41 states: "The public media service of each obligor until the end of the current calendar year delivers 12 tax forms for the next calendar year. TV delivers a form from Article 2, i.e. a user... in the territory of the province of Vojvodina... The obligor pays a monthly fee up to 5 in the month," and explains how he pays, etc. Please, Mrs Gojkovic, how can the minister say that there is no other document defining a different way of paying a fee? Here he is, Mr. Sertić, we adopted him in this Assembly, and because you don't know about him, don't act like Mr. Babic, so when you don't know something, there is no such thing. It's simple, we passed a law that says something completely different to the provisions of this law, and that's possible, and now we have with you a few laws where in the transitional and final provisions we said that by adopting this law, it ceases to be a member of both this and that law, etc. If the intention is to apply only this law that we are discussing today, it does not say that it ceases to apply Article 41. Public media service laws? That would avoid all the problems we have now. Otherwise, Article 8 is one of the few members who is not directly contrary to the Law on Public Media Services, because it says that the release from payment is done in accordance with the Law on Public Media Services, but since the whole law is contrary to the rest... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45579	Time. Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45580	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Article 8 writes - Liberation from the obligation to pay a fee is done by RTS and RTTV in accordance with the Law on Public Media Services. We believe that tax should not exist and, accordingly, there should be no exemption from the obligation to pay a fee, because there is nothing to be free of. I must say here that the New Party will launch a petition to lift this fee. Because we think the best way to ensure the independence and autonomy of the public service is by agreeing here in the National Assembly, all of us at one session of the National Assembly, that the money to finance the public service goes directly from the budget, gentlemen. Because it will be the safest way to ensure public service independence and autonomy. I would like one of the MPs here, for example, or our guests from the government to come forward and explain to us that I am wrong when I offer this alternative proposal in relation to what, Mrs Gojkovic, is the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure no editor-in-chief, so whoever it is, the public service isn't going to care so much about political influences if they know that next year they have exactly the kind of money we agreed on here at a certain percentage of the budget. So he knows that money is already defined, he can prepare programs, change programs, make a natural editorial policy with the knowledge that no one can take that money away from him, dear gentlemen. What's the problem with accepting this proposal, for example? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45581	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45582	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 8th People's Parliament have been regulated to release payment fees to both RTS and RTTV. The issue that concerns individual fellow Members, except as regulated by Article 11(2), has also been regulated by Article 37. The law. He can't make RTS now, at this point, a decision to introduce a tax. It's impossible. Read Article 37, paragraph 2, and you'll find that clear. So always read the law first, people. Whether you vote for it or not, read it to discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45583	Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanović, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Balša Bozovic and together Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and Janko Veseinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45584	Thank you, Madam President. Article 9 states - The amount of tax unique throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia is determined at a monthly amount of 150 dinars. In Article 37. The Law on Public Media Services, which Mr Sertic claims does not exist, writes - The decision to determine the amount of the fee set out in Article 2, is made by the boards of directors of RTS and RTS jointly, based on an analysis of... etc. The decision to determine the amount of tax is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Mr Sertic, is the government of the Republic of Serbia the board of directors of RTS and RTS? So, is this bill before us "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia"? Because the law that we adopted states that a decision on the level of the fee will be made by the RTS Management Board and will be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and a decision on the level of the fee has been made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and published in the proposal for a law on the temporary regulation of how to charge a fee for public media services, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Just answer me that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45585	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45586	How did the government bring it? What are you talking about? I am a Messenger of the people, not disowning the authority of the messenger of the people. The government has proposed, MPs are bringing it in. The same people's messengers who voted for that law. And the RTS Management Board has made no decision on the level of the tax. It can't be applied in 2016. Guys, what's wrong with you?- I'm sorry. Read the law once.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45587	Members of the 9th amendment were submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party. Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45588	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, respected ministers, although Mr Arsic argues otherwise, we are just considering the fact that it is absolutely unacceptable for us to propose the government, and the National Assembly adopts that the amount of the fee for the TV subscription is determined. For this reason, we have submitted an amendment to Article 9, i.e. The amendment of Article 9, and the amendment, reads - a decision on the level of the tax is taken by the RTS and RTS Management Board together, and the level of the tax is unique throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. By asking the question – where will I pay the tax, as I come with KIM, but I believe we will agree on that. Also, in Article 9, we have appointed Article 2, i.e. Article 2 where payment obligations under the Law on Broadcasting have been regularly met by radio-television subscribers to public broadcasting services, obligations to pay public media service fees up to the amount of payment of radio-television subscription in the period from 1 June 2013 until the date of entry into force of the Public Media Services Act. Why did we take this? Because, we believe, since the public has been informed since May 2013 that the TV subscription will be cancelled and that there will be no payment obligation, part of the citizens have ceased to settle obligations while the second part has continued to pay the subscription. So, by amendment, we propose that these two categories of citizens be evened out in rights and obligations by orderly payers...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45589	Thank you. Together, Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and together Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and Janko Vesenovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45590	Ladies and gentlemen, I will announce one proposal on our amendment to Article 10. In Article 10, the budget funds referred to in Article 2(1) of this Act for the financing of the basic activity of the public media service shall be defined on an annual basis, at the position of the Ministry of Public Information Affairs. So this article is referred to Article 2. And in Article 2, which is related to Article 10, it says that from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016, in part public services will be financed from the budget. Not partly, but our proposal is entirely out of the budget, for the sake of independence of public service autonomy and safe inflow. I would like to inform Minister Sertic and Mr Arsic that it is currently taking the signing of a petition to lift the tax on the Terraces outside the New Party's premises. I invite you all to go sign the petition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45591	The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45592	Thank you. So, since the National Assembly, rather than the Government of the Republic of Serbia, apologizes, usurps the powers of the RTS and RTS Management Board and somehow attributes to itself the powers that it cannot possibly have, and holds that the bill before us is "the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", we propose to delete this member of the Bill of Law, this meaningless law, given that on the same day, when this bill of law comes into force, that is to say, it is beginning to apply the provisions of the Law that are directly contrary to what it says here. I don't know anymore, it's really amazing that we're talking so much about things that are so logical and so obvious that I don't know how to find any reason to question what we're saying. We have two draft laws, both starting to apply on the same day, in which are completely opposite solutions, and both solutions concern citizens of the Republic of Serbia, both solutions concern what will be the obligations of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Really tell us, by which of these two laws will the non-paying citizens answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45593	Ambassador Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so it's not the National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's fault that the RTS Management Board, otherwise appointed by the DS, has not made the decision. For example, MPs, the National Assembly cannot usurp anyone's rights except the President of the Republic. That's what you learn once. So we have passed part of our jurisdiction by law to the board of public broadcasters. We did, check with lawyers who understand the political system, constitutional law, administrative law and everything else. We trusted it with the law. The second law for a certain period of time gives us back to whoever gave them, which is the National Assembly. Learn that already. The MP is a carrier of the sovereignty of the citizens. It's not some board of directors. Do not be humiliated as MPs by giving up what your citizens have given you in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45595	Tell the MP what's the problem? (Goran Ciric, from town: He mentioned the Democratic Party. ) Yes, he mentioned that the DS had set up a board of directors, capable or incapacitated. Whether he is capable or incompetent, it is an assessment of the MPs that he considers him incompetent but not offensive. It's been said that the board is a member of this party and this party and I didn't want to give a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45596	Thank you, dear President of Parliament. I won't speak with this tone. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45597	You didn't get the word. The microphone's on, and you can't do it by amendment. Your group's long gone. On the 11th amendment, Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic and Balša Bozovic, together MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and MP Janko Vesenovic, submitted together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45598	Dear ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the amendment to Article 11, I only have one question – did anyone in the meantime find out where and what Minister Ivan Tasovac is doing? While we are here discussing his draft law, the Minister has no one and I am asking anyone, any MP or any representative of the Government or the National Assembly to tell us – do you know where and what Minister Tasovac is doing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45599	Jerkov, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45600	Thank you, ma'am. The third law that will once again be in complete contrast with all of this, although others if we trust Mr Sertic, he believes that the first law does not exist, so it is possible that some third law may also appear that again something complete, a third system of charges will establish. Fortunately, he won't be able to take effect on the same day these two who are already facing each other enough. Again that supplier, again the invoice fee for vomiting, etc. We don't understand how these two laws can function in parallel, but this idea of Mr. Arsic taking over the board of directors is very much liked. There are a few boards of directors, say NIS, Mrs Gojkovic mentioned, where perhaps we have a "Serbigas" where we might be able to assume some responsibilities. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the SDS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45601	Thank you, Madam President, since Mr Pavicevic asked where the minister is, I ask – why is there no direct transmission of this session just when we talk about RTS?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45602	Now they've cut the transmission. These seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45603	Now? I have information that 15 minutes ago at least. I'll return to the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45604	Please, that committee to ask the director of RTS, the board responsible for these questions, and I will support you to get an official notice so that we don't talk to me every day about what's been going on lately at 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45605	Madam President, it's strange that literally every day in the last, you show some shows that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45606	I completely agree with you. No one has informed me, nor has the secretary general that they will begin at almost 6:00 p.m. to interrupt direct transmissions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45607	Then we won't pay those 150 dinars. As soon as the bill arrives, I won't pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45608	Write to Director Bujosevic. Let him know about your personal decision. Together, Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic and Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and MP Janko Veseinovic submitted to the 12th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45609	We believe that if this law enters into force the following days from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", which will probably be before 1 January 2016, when the provisions of another law defining the same matter are applied in a completely different way, that this will produce a complete chaos in the payment of a fee for RTS, given that these two laws that enter into force on the same day are defined in a completely different way. On the side of the fact that citizens were already confused with the different information that there would be no subscription, that it was a firm promise, that it was something that they would not give up, so there was how much this subscription would be. Some didn't pay. Those who didn't pay clearly did well for not paying because they wouldn't answer for it, just like the ones who legalized, who didn't legalize and build legal houses, so it turns out they were smarter than the ones who asked for all the permits and paid all the taxes. So please and it seems to me that by the end of the debate you can withdraw the law, withdraw the law, don't let two completely different laws that define the same area enter into force on the same day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45610	MPs of the SDS-Boris Tadic jointly submitted to the 12th amendment. Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. I thank Minister Sertic for yesterday's and today's work. Happy holidays. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS parliamentary group. The People's MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The People's MP, Blagoja Bradic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. While you were chatting, we reached an amendment to Article 2. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45611	Thank you. Article 2 sets out in this Bill amendments and additions of general interest in scientific and research activities within the meaning of this Act to be achieved through a programme of interest, the general interest in the Republic, and in 16 points defines which are in the fifth final position, I think it is the fifth or sixth, says – for the implementation of the programme referred to in item 2 of Article 2 of this Article from points 1 to 4 and points 6 to 16 of the Ministry of Public Competition, and the implementation and financing of the programme begins as a rule at the beginning of the calendar year. Our amendment for many good reasons for adding words – every year, that the member who is adopted, or the position is – after the adoption of the law that the ministry prescribes a public competition every year and the further part of the text does not change. Why do we think that's better? Because so far programmes are implemented in cycles, and cycles last three, four, five years, and competitions for project proposals are only announced once in that period. We don't think that's appropriate. First, we live in a very lively time of innovation, and it is better to legislate by law that every year we publish competitions and there is an opportunity to publish each year competitions, as is done in the EU, in the Horizon 2020 Programme. Was it the idea to put it on every year or not? In order to achieve the adoption of the amendments, we are left to adopt each year.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45612	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45613	I missed the amendment to Article 2, but it doesn't matter. So, Article 3 is about the National Council, where the proposer suggests that the National Council has a president and 13 members from the academics, researchers in calling a scientific advisor, a regular professor of universities and businessmen. We propose that they be three members of the ranks of prominent businessmen on the list of candidates proposed by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. I'm sorry, instead of three, as the proposal puts it, we suggest that it be six members from the ranks of prominent businessmen from the list of candidates proposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, three members from the ranks of prominent businessmen from the list of candidates proposed by the Association of Employers and one representative of companies and organisations for each area defined by the programme of strategic joint research, i.e. an area in Serbia's economic development strategy, identified as a priority. We believe that by significantly increasing the participation of the users of the results of the scientific and research work, the National Council would be more and more effective in directing scientific and research work towards applying the results of what should actually be an effect. So, it's not a fundamental change, we have much more important changes later, but, behold, the proposal to increase the number of members proposed by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45614	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45615	Thank you. One sentence of everything. As this currently seems, this amendment does not affect the total number of members of the Council, but three members suggest replacing it with six plus three, plus I don't know what, and the total number remains as it was. Then it doesn't agree mathematically.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45616	Thank you. The third amendment was submitted by Blagoje Bradić. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party -- submitted together to the 3rd amendment. I'm sorry about earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45617	It is a member who defines the mandate, more precisely the number of members of the National Council, since we believe that the term of office of five years is long enough, that it should not be possible to be more than two mandates, we do not see more precisely the reason for the adoption of this law, so to speak, to reset the situation and to recalculate the mandates. Otherwise, it is known that there are a lot of people in the organs and bodies who repeat the mandates, and there are also a lot of directors, so-called majority, and there are enough scientific workers very qualified to repeat their mandates. Serbia has enough quality candidates, and we think they should be subject to the same rules as other members of the Higher Education Council, directors, rectors and deans of the university, as these are similar responsibilities. The explanation we got really isn't at least correct. It even says in an explanation that these would disable some people, given the period when they were appointed, that recently there were some appointments. Right, half of it is named at one point, so it absolutely doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45618	Thanks, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45619	I guess I can do it for at least two minutes, huh?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45620	Now you're going to make a connection. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party -- submitted together to the 4th amendment. You want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45621	Sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45622	Just sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45623	In Article 4(2), we have suggested that the words "oriented basic research" be deleted. Here's what our motivation is. I have to say that this article has been quite improved by the previous law, because some new programs have been defined. But I've never seen myself in the same basket anywhere in the world, I have to express myself so harshly, in the same program, basic and targeted basic research. The information works, I'm the project reviewer and FP7 and Horizon 2020 and the National Foundation of America, Hong Kong, I'm a consultant for these things from the Taiwanese government and lastly, in the region I'm doing project reviews in both Croatia and Slovenia, it's not so defined anywhere. That's fine. Whether they're called directed and basic or applied somewhere, there's that, but it's not the same program. It's always two programs. There's different review forms, there's participation somewhere, there's nowhere to be found, etc. In one word, I think the idea of introducing this was good, but in that case a new programme should be introduced – a fundamentally targeted or applied research. It was the only option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45624	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45625	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, MP Stojadinovic, if we thought only about the meaning of these words, you would be absolutely right, but behind this is a programme act. So one document in which each of these programs will be individually explained, with very clear criteria and with everything that distinguishes these funding programmes. So this should be viewed as the title of a programme that is particularly funded.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45626	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45627	Thank you. I would not appear after the minister's argument that I do not feel the need, because I believe that the proposer of this amendment will understand the explanation because I see that there is an urgency that this type of erasure is done in several positions, or wherever this kind of research is mentioned in the bill. So even if we think it might be different structured by members, by dots and regular numbers, that's no reason to completely throw out this kind of research. They have their meaning and theirs, as we all, I'm sure, together we believe, a good outcome in practice tomorrow. So there's no reason to deprive ourselves of it just because we might have a different taste question than how to organize some numbering of regular numbers. I believe you agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45628	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45629	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45630	You don't have a chance to replicate, sir. You have more of your amendments, and then you can...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45631	After such wonderful discussions that I don't answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45632	You don't have a chance, but I'll give you my word not to take one amendment from you. You have to understand, you're the vice president, you need to know when you have the right to a replica and when you don't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45633	Thank you so much for this, Mr. Becic. I understand both, but I don't think I'm the smartest. What I was talking about, I saw that they were world solutions. In other words, my grudge was, can't be put under point one in the same program and basically and focused, it was better to put a new program, there are other conditions, other areas, there. This was an idea to simply indicate that this could have been done better. But what's there is going to be a problem for you when you're making competitive materials, forms, etc. Thank you, fellow Orlic, for realizing correctly that this was an idea to improve something, not obstruct itself. Thank you very much again, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45634	Thank you, Mr. Stojadinovic. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, nine MPs. Thank you. He's got a word for it. Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45635	Reflexes are reported to be dropping with an increase in the number of hours of the session. This is to be open, a technical amendment that wouldn't greatly improve the law, so we absolutely agree with the minister's argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45636	The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. He's got a word for it. Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45637	Thank you, Mr. Becic. We have suggested that prior to these positions whose addition the Government is proposing, add an attitude that will actually say that the accreditation of the scientific research organisation is carried out in a way that is determined by the Law on Higher Education, because universities so far have been able to be accredited with the Ministry of Education, Science, Technological Development to obtain accreditation for their scientific research activity, and then with such accreditation and with very similar documentation to submit requests to the Commission for accreditation and quality checks. That's where they check to see if they meet the scientific criteria. We think it's an unnecessary duplication of these activities. You know about our suggestion when it comes to accreditation if there is a desire to really improve this area that it should be much more frequent or even introduce an obligation to verify quality be a commitment, not an exception as it continues to be proposed here by the bill, because you are very well aware that at the moment of accreditation, probably, simply for sure, all universities that pass the accreditation process, they meet all the conditions. And do they meet those conditions over the next four years, do they really have those teachers, do they really have those classes, do they really do do all these classes, well, now that's something that nobody's going to ask them about for the next four years. You, Mr. Verbic, know very well that it's a public secret that there are teachers who tend to be. At the moment of accreditation, they go from university to university because these universities know that four years from the next accreditation no one will ever check again. So, we suggest that it be abolished here, and the obligation to keep it under control.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45638	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic. Here you go, Mr. Verbich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45639	Dear Members of the United States, you've kind of been anticipating something that is otherwise the intention of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. We believe that laws concerning higher education and science should be united, but at this point science and higher education are funded in different ways. Accreditation serves different purposes. At this point, it's not possible to solve both things with one accreditation, but it's certainly one of the things that we're thinking about and our intention is to do it at some point in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45640	Thank you. Members of the 5th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Ivan Karic. Here you go, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45641	Mr. Becic, I think you've changed the order a little bit, but well, it doesn't matter that much. I am the author of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45642	Mr. Stojadinović, we're on Article 6 and that's your amendment, before that were your colleagues' amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45643	You have reversed the order of MPs. So, this is about the president's term, the vice president, and the members of the parent board, and the same problem again, it's the reference year again, when this law begins, and I've simply fought against the majority of board members, various bodies, the categorization committee. At least it is present in the national councils, so the intensity of this amendment was, above all, to prevent some people from being in office for the term of office of another government as part of those committees. Of course, I understand your problem, there's a quick competition for the new project cycle, it's going to be a problem to do all this, but believe me, those people from the parent boards who have been for a long time and what they've suggested is to put in the basics of targeted research. I, by circumstances, know what committee it's about. So if people spend too much time there, and they're responsible for responsibilities, they have other jobs, they can get certain, so to speak, abuse, and to get something that isn't optimal into the Ministry's materials. That was an emergency. This second one's a clean denunciation of impeachment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45644	Thank you, Mr. Stojadinovic. Pursuant to Article 11 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 157(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45645	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Bečić, the distinguished Ministers Verbić and the respected guests and guests from the government, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 15, we have received the reply from Minister Verbic that it is not possible to accept our amendment. I also got an explanation for not accepting the amendment, and I read the explanation and concluded that Minister Verbić's argument is good and I accept the explanation for not accepting our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45646	Thank you. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic together submitted to the 16th amendment. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45647	Thank you, Mr. Becic. We want the list of conditions to be met by the Institute in order to obtain the statute of the institute of national importance to add the condition that we have added under 5a) but can also be under any other number if you consider it to be a problem, and this condition states that this institute is obliged to implement a special 10-year programme of strategic research carried out by the government, and sets out the results that the Institute must produce to meet Serbia's needs in accordance with its strategies, and in particular with the scientific research strategy, which places particular emphasis on the applicability of the results to certain sectors of economy and society. This may be unusual for someone who comes from social sciences, given that these are not exactly scientific strategies that actually have an impact on the economy, but we do have a problem with the fact that many institutes have not functioned in the development of our society but have been engaged in research whose only results have been scientific works. Just to get this privileged statute of the institute of national importance, we think it might be a good idea to introduce this criterion as a mandatory one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45648	Thank you. The word has Minister Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45649	Thank you. This idea that the implementation of the long-term research programme is one of the conditions, is not a bad idea, but since we still don't have a long-term research programme, so we don't have a competition that's published, we don't have the criteria by which it would take place, it's something that currently exists in the strategy of scientific and technological development, but it still doesn't exist as a sublegal act, where criteria and conditions would be defined, and where it would finally specify what kind of research we want, we as a state or as an economy, or we as any interested party that wants concrete research to deliver to one of the institutes as long-term, as long as we can do so. We do not think there is a need to stand in the law, and since the amendments and additions to the Law on Scientific and Research Action are at issue, we do not think it is necessary to put the long-term research programme here, but the proposal for a strategy of scientific and technological development that has just passed a public debate is foreseen that in 2017, we have a long-term competition and that will be the time to discuss whether this is a condition for a national institute or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45650	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Ivan Karic. Thank you. The word is Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45651	The law is full of easing conditions and legalising some solutions, more specifically lagging behind the ministry's delay in some activities. One example of the mitigation of conditions is this particular member, point 8, where the condition for obtaining the status of the Institute of national importance, instead of "100" researchers with scientific calling, is halved. My experience from most EU countries, not to mention the United States, Japan, etc. is that there are no national institutes with this number of scientists who have a scientific calling. I wonder if the former law's promoter thought about when he proposed the law, obviously it was, because it envisioned the merger, the unification of several institutes, and I don't see that it would lose the identity of institutes, traditions, etc. Mostly if this solution is adopted and applied, I can list at this moment a dozen institutes that will achieve this condition, some that will be as popularly said - below the line and then start transfers, winter deadlines, summer deadlines, universities, institutes which can be useful, but not because of obtaining the status of institutes of national importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45652	Thank you. The word has Dr. Srdjan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45653	I just want to draw your attention that it's a number of science doctors we're looking for to make the institute of national importance. If "100" were left, we would only have three candidates for the Institute of national importance, Vinchu, the Institute of Physics and the Institute of Biological Research "Siniša Stanković". So, no social science institute, therefore, “100” is, you will admit too harsh a condition, perhaps “50” is not the right measure at the moment, we could talk to suggest just “50” that, or you suggested “100”, which is too harsh. At this point it is very important that we have these other conditions achieved, that in some way we motivate the institutes to achieve these other conditions, not only the number of doctors of sciences to be the institute of national importance, and since at this point this status is primarily as proposed by law, first of all, the matter of prestige will not be financed otherwise then it is not so important. The most important thing right now is to motivate the institutes to meet these higher standards. So I hope we have more than three institutes of national importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45654	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do you, Mr. Orlic, want a word? (No) The National MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic and the MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted to the 20th amendment in the same text. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45655	Thank you. We consider it preferable to be representatives of companies that are users of results and research, not just researchers of other institutions, because representatives of users of results would have a better impact on institutes, on directing their research towards the needs of society. That's what we talked about, instead of the institutes closing further in this way only within the research and academic community, so it's the same one in the group of amendments, and I believe that you answered me when you responded to one of the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45656	Thank you. The word has Minister Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45657	The idea that decisions of the boards of directors are made on the basis of the results of the research is a very noble idea, however, it turns out that it is very difficult to establish a question and task for researchers in the right way and we think it is still very important that those on boards are really researchers, so that they understand in the right way what the mission of the institute is and what people are doing at that institute, which projects. In any case, it is a good intention to open opportunities for people from the economy to be board members, and I hope that in due course we will have more Dr. sciences that find their employment somewhere in the economy, not in institutions or in colleges. When that number increases, then this question gets its full meaning and we think it should stay as we suggested for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45658	National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Ivan Karic together submitted the 21st amendment. The word is Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45659	I don't know the easiest word to use for what happened to this member where we suggested that the director's term lasts four years and can be named twice in a career at the same institute. The idea was to avoid the practice of senior directors who constantly reset the situation by amending the law, and here's what the ministry does to me. "The amendment is not accepted because it is not precise enough and does not know what career it is." It wasn't about a movie or a sports career. So, at least incorrectly, and it is said that there is no need for more precise wording since 2010, because since 2010, the reference point, so it will automatically be no more than two mandates, so that the amendment appears on the board in a voluntary way, where it is placed in the scientific career, and the explanation is taken, my argument from the proposed amendment, I believe that this is not correct at least, and here is what is said – the amendment more precisely defines the norm of the rules of the draft law, will not remove the problem of the majority directors, if the referendum is adopted in 2010, as it provides for such a legal solution, all mandates before that will be counted, etc. So, quite the opposite of how it's justified to refuse the amendments. I don't have vanity, I don't have a problem with my amendment, my authorship doesn't admit it. The point is that in this country we no longer have senior directors in the institutes, who are who knows how many years directors and I am glad that this amendment has appeared, but I still urge that when the reasoning is prepared, there is a contradiction between the ministry's reasoning and the committee's reasoning. Thank you, Mr. Becic, for giving me three seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45660	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, Mr. Eagle.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45661	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think there's any room for any dissatisfaction. What was a minor regret, but still significant enough not to adopt the amendment for that reason, has been corrected through that version that came to the board and what was the main intensity of the proposer of this amendment has indeed been achieved. Just so there's no confusion, there are no board members, but with our public and that the authorship is respected. I confirm on this side as a member of the board that the Committee's amendment to Article 21, which was adopted by the government, is the result of Professor Stojadinovic's idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45662	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Pursuant to Article 21 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly submitted to the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee in charge, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Pursuant to Article 27 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly submitted to the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee in charge, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Pursuant to Article 28 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly submitted to the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee in charge, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Pursuant to Article 29 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly submitted to the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee in charge, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45663	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we Members of the New Party have submitted the amendment to Article 30. Proposal for a law, offer an explanation for our amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, it has offered an explanation for not accepting the amendments, and the order is, I think, to say that the power of argument is in this kind of confrontation on the part of Minister Verbic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45664	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Ivan Karic together submitted the 30th amendment. The word is from the MP of the academics, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45665	Thank you, Mr. Becic. The respected ministers with your help, the idea for this amendment, was to define more precisely and correctly the conditions for the choice in scientific calling, where, I must point out, at the request of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering from Belgrade, the added criteria for choosing this first scientific calling, where we should put a candidate in doctoral studies, and the reason for that is the practice that exists in many institutes and universities to choose this calling, go abroad to do doctorates, and they are fictional on projects, more precisely those so-called. Dead souls, they're funded, and they're gone. So it's an ETF authorship from Belgrade. What we have done is not to allow conditions, criteria for selecting the highest scientific titles – senior scientific advisor and scientific advisor. I spoke in principle debate, what was introduced, subprojects, that makes sense. The explanation that there are few subprojects makes sense. But that could only go away for calling a senior research associate. Project tasks, it's something every project participant does, and I understand the institutes and the people employed in the institutes that it's hard to reach some scientific calling, especially when it comes to master's and doctoral studies, but I think this is our solution better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45666	Thank you. Pursuant to Article 33 of the amendment, Article 157(6) shall apply. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly submitted to the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee in charge, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Well, Professor Stojmirovic, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Pursuant to Article 34 of the amendment, Article 157(6) shall apply. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly submitted to the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee in charge, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Unfortunately, he is unable to defend this amendment. We want Mr. Zivkovic recovered as soon as possible. The 35th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45667	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted one amendment to article 35 concerning the seizure of the scientific, or research calling. We believe that the proposed solution in this bill was otherwise good, but we had two additions. One addition concerned that we felt it was good for the scientific or research calling to be taken away if it was determined that the scientific works on which the candidate was elected were plagiarized or autoplagiarized. In the reasons for not accepting it is very precise that autoplagia can be considered something that is already foreseen and covered by the formulation below. I accept that argument. We also had one addition in terms of stricter criminal policy, to call it that. We have suggested this, that if a final decision is made on the withdrawal called on the day of the final decision by the person to whom the call was taken is deleted from the register. And we have completed, without being able to re-enter the register. The ministry, or the government, has taken the view that a slightly lighter criminal policy is needed, and I can also respect the argument offered by the government to preserve the initial proposal in the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45668	Thank you. Members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Vice President Becic, Honored Minister Verbic, Honored Guests and Guests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I consider it appropriate to read the content of the amendments we have submitted and accepted. This amendment reads: "The Code of Conduct in Scientific Research defines the principles of integrity in scientific and research work in order to preserve the dignity of profession, to develop and improve moral and ethical values, to protect the value of knowledge and respect and raise awareness of researchers' responsibility in scientific and research work, with respect to the principles of academic integrity, respected gentlemen. For me, this is a great victory, but also your victory, I think, Minister Verbich. A huge victory for all the bearers of combat for academic integrity. On behalf of the academic community in our republic, I mean, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, this is one big victory of parliamentaryism in our country. Gentlemen, all together, tonight we are ordering the first knowledge, so call and I want to say clearly here – bravo, Minister Verbić, well done, Minister Verbić, and please, Mr Becic, allow me to approach this part where guests from the Government sit and give my hand to Minister Verbić for this action and congratulate him. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45670	Anything you want, Mr. Pavicevic. If it's your pleasure, I don't want to deny it. (National MP Vladimir Pavicevic approaches to congratulate Minister Srdjan Verbic. () Thank the Prime Minister as well. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic. Here you go, Mr. Verbich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45671	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment is something that has come across the approval of the entire government and the whole government is behind the need for consensus, we need all of us to agree that whatever it is called, that principle we apply to science is fair. So if there is a fair play, no matter what the dictionary calls it, it should be pointed out, and if the introduction of the principle of academic integrity will satisfy all sides of this assembly, we are, of course, doing it to accept it. The principle of academic honesty, as such, cannot be found in the encyclopaedias, but neither can any other, so it is very important that we define what the code is and we have proposed through this bill and we have proposed who should deal with the code, who should adopt the code, who should implement it, and when we finally have a code of conduct in the scientific and research community, then we will know exactly whose obligations are, starting with the National Council for Science, the Committee on Ethics, until the very minister who should respect what the decisions of the Ethics Committee are.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45672	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Ivan Karic together. The word is from the MP of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45673	Thank you, Mr. Becic. This very simple amendment, which we wanted to increase the participation of the SANU Academy of Sciences and add another member, is an example of double ministry standards when deciding on amendments. The answer is that a comprehensively proposed solution is due to the odd number of members and the operationality and quorum for work. Shouldn't that be the same for the National Council where there are even numbers of members? There's an even number of members. I just looked at it, and that's why I suggested this solution. This isn't the only time the Ministry isn't consistent and has double arches for different amendments. Once the amendment is rejected, because it is already foreseen and is in accordance with the Higher Education Act. Another member is not accepted because science and this law have nothing to do with the Law on Higher Education. Science is one thing, it's just so rude, teaching is something else. It's not a problem if it's 12 or 13 members, whether something else has changed. These are finesse and I thought you'd do something for SANU, make a bigger contribution, but, I say, what insults dignity are double arches. I'd like to ask the minister to influence his associates. I understand why he didn't answer my question about that amendment, which was accepted in such a way. I'm sure he was embarrassed, so he did it by a distinguished colleague, Orlic, but he really has to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45674	Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 36th amendment. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45675	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Mr Verbic, he has several problems with the method of proposing the mandate and work of the Committee on Ethics in science. First, we are convinced that the minister should not appoint and resolve the members of the Committee on Ethics in Science. We believe that this right should belong to the National Assembly. Imagine, say, and then these other members of the Committee on Ethics in Science have the possibility of having another choice, which is another of the things we propose to erase, Mr Sertic, a situation where one of the ministers is, say, accused of plagiarizing his doctoral dissertation. The Minister appoints a Committee on Ethics in Science. The people appointed by the minister decide whether another minister has plagiarised his doctorate and are constantly under pressure that he may be re-elected or not, because next time he should choose the same minister. We suggest that, instead of you, we entrust it to the National Assembly, that these people do not have the ability to re-election precisely because they would not be under that constant pressure whether they would be re-elected and, last technical thing, they do not have the compensation for work. I think they are among the few people in Serbia who choose some positions that do not belong to work compensation, but that is the least important. It is much more important that the minister chooses them, and a large number of these cases Mr Pavicevic spoke about are precisely high-ranking state officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45676	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45677	The insinuations of the amendments are as correct as the last name, Mr. Minister, which she gave you, and she called you "Mr. Sertic". So much for that, and so much for the concentration, and so much for the truthfulness of all those insinuations that followed that reference to "Mr Sertic", and you are Mr Verbic. On the other hand, for the record, I'm glad some of them are having fun in this room, but it was more fun to listen to insinuations and the wrong last name of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, what is problematic for me in this amendment and why the SNS will not propose it is that it is known that the Government and the Ministers are elected by the National Assembly, that these ministers paint most of the National Assembly, that what the Minister will determine to the Commission is in a similar way that the majority elected by that minister will determine that commission. I think this solution that was proposed in the law is far better, far faster, far more effective. I appreciate all the reasons why this law is proposed and why the assembly majority will adopt it, and for those who want to be interested in some remarks and innuendos, I would recommend that they concentrate, at least on the last name of ministers in the Government of Aleksandra Vukic and SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45678	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has Dr. Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45679	Thank you, Chairman. I just want to underline this detail regarding participation in the board of ethics, that participation is not part of the budget, that is, there is no monetary compensation for it. I think it's very important, because people who will be members of this committee should be there because it's an honor for them to be here and because they feel that it's something that they can contribute to society. Thus, people who are members of that committee should not think for a moment about what the minister will think about their court, what they will think about that proposal they have made. They're doing it because it's an honor for them to do the job. It is also very important that the minister, on the basis of a proposal from various institutions, chooses these people, as this increases the minister's responsibility for the decision. I think it is very important that the minister gives his judgment on what the proposals of the Ethics Committee are.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45680	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. You have your word, Mrs. Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45681	Thank you. Our amendment refers to Article 36, which adds Article 88b, which speaks about what happens when the Committee on Ethics in Science finds that the researcher violates the rules and standards of the Code of Conduct in Scientific Research. What are his powers? And in several points, a total of four, with the view that the final decision on the proposals of the Committee on Ethics and Science is, of course, made by the ministry, or the minister. Therefore, point 2 is said – once it has been established that there has been a breach of the rules and codes of conduct, it concludes that the procedure for the confiscation of research, or scientific calling, has been stuck at the request of the scientific council of the Institute, i.e. teaching the scientific council of the university and persons who have a PhD in science or research, or scientific calling. We suggest that this part of the sentence behind the comma be deleted and that the Ethics Committee does not need any request from the Scientific Council to take away the research, or scientific reference, if it has established such a severity of violation of the Code of Conduct in Scientific Research. In particular, the third point of the Ethics Committee in science has an independent decision until the Minister's confirmation to propose a ban on participation in the work of the bodies in charge of quality care. What's he gonna do if he can't do it? And finally to propose a ban on the use of resources for science and development. So he can be banned from using funds, and he doesn't have to initiate a procedure to take away research, or scientific calling if he doesn't have a request. It's, um, illogical, but it's just not fair to whoever did it eventually while the minister's decision is being made. If we already want what the minister says, to have the privilege of being on that committee, then give him this jurisdiction without the demands of a greater one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45682	Time. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45683	Thank you. As far as I can see, the only amendment proposed by the amendment to what is the very proposal for point 2 refers to a circle of persons whose request should be concluded on the initiation of the procedure. The only difference. Therefore, the other points are not covered by the proposed amendment. I believe that what is proposed in the text of the bill should remain as it is for a very simple reason. It enables those who do certain things to do things and who understand them to be able to reach a certain conclusion, that is to say, to raise certain doubts. Where and where things would be more beautiful and better if people were dealing with things that they only personally understand and who they deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45684	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45685	Thank you, Chairman. Let me just say a few words about the rigority of these scheduled sanctions and why we advocate that they be milder. First, because at this point we don't have any sanctions and only when the code is passed, then we'll be able to talk about whether they're too sharp or not. In that code there will certainly be a lot of things that are difficult to measure. What we are facing today and what is a serious problem in the research community is something that would be recognized in other places as mobing, and almost tolerated in the research community and silenced. It's correspondence to work, it's too many authors, it's mandatory to include whoever has the equipment, and it's sitting in the next lab. Such things are very difficult to measure. I think it's much more important to put them as criteria somewhere, even if those sanctions were small, but to apply rather than immediately start with some sharp sanctions. The most important thing is to first notice what the behaviors are and to react there.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45686	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanovic, Branko Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Ivan Karic together. The word is Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45687	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear ministers with now, one remaining associate, the idea was here throughout the law, and you said a little while ago that it would be ideal for the law to include both higher education and scientific research work, which is a practice in which most EU countries can be said, that even the ministry is one for higher education and scientific research, so with that in connection, we know that there is always some equivalent to scientific titles and teaching titles. This equivalence, as usual, is the right, but it is recognised when someone in the college commission is admitted to the scientific title of the institute as appropriate and the opposite. I've been on committees as a professor of choice in scientific calling and I'm calling my commission colleagues from the institute. So that's perfectly normal. With that in mind, I thought it was normal and equalising the rights of people with these titles, the highest in the institutes, and that they could be able to be in a working relationship by 68 years, as well as regular professors of the university. I think that's just fine. This would also allow what you are concerned about, the 50 doctors of science, if the possibility of working relations was extended in one year, surely the institutes would have more doctors of science, and so also these social sciences, which could be separated in that member, but well, would allow them to become institutes with the status of national importance, but the explanation of the ministry that they have no connection to science and education really does not stand. Different arguments are used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45688	National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 40th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Ivan Karic together submitted the same amendment. The word is Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45689	Mr. Verbic, this last set of our amendments referred to the deadlines in which the institute with the law and the intensity was to shorten all deadlines. We think in this first case it's a year and too long a deadline and it could be done in six months, but apparently the Ministry thinks differently. As for the other deadlines, I'm going to use this time to say something about it, so I don't hear from you later, if you don't mind, as far as the other deadlines are concerned, I think it's pretty good the Ministry hit those deadlines. Somewhere I think maybe instead of 90 days it could be 60, but most of it's fine. We only think that this deadline is extremely long and that the statutes, or those acts, can be regulated by the institutes, but it certainly does not violate the quality of the law. This law definitely represents some shift, even to say there are some shifts in some areas, but there was no courage to further improve certain things, instead some conditions are legalised, as the Ministry of Zorana Mihajlovic says, the legal and criteria are tempered, which I personally do not like, but I want a lot of success in applying this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45690	I thank Mr Stojadinovic. Members of the 45th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Thank you. Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Ivan Karic. Thank you. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Thank you. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 46th amendment. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45691	Thank you, Mr. Becic. This is the last amendment that I will explain under this law, and although, for example, on the subject of a previous member, we have proposed that the deadline for harmonising the statutes of scientific research organisations be shorter than a year is real, we do not know why you have been harmonising your statutes with the law for those years, but here we think that the 90-day deadline to adopt a strategy for scientific technological development of RS is a little short. I know that this strategy is already at some stage, that it will not start at zero when it starts to work, but we have come to the debate ourselves how important this strategy will be and how much of it depends on us. So we believe that to adopt a strategy for scientific technological development, the RS needs more than 90 days, but it is not a fundamental amendment. Much more important are those amendments relating to previous members, so whatever you want, or accept it. It doesn't change things.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45692	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. Members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. A group of MPs, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 47th amendment. Thank you. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic thanked him for the 47th amendment. Members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Thank you. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 49th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The 50th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 51st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45693	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't support this amendment, but I'm not going to explain it any more because I think we understand about the need to secure uninterrupted funding. I only use ten seconds to thank everyone at the very end for the quality of the debate, to further thank my colleagues from the board of directors for the good work we've done together by proposing amendments for which I didn't want to take extra time today, and which they also gave, I believe, my contribution to getting a maximum good law. For their part, counterparts Nenad Nikolic, Aleksandar Markovic, Katarina Šushnar and Susani Sarac supported their signatures by an initiative that resulted both in these committee amendments and not least the ministry. I believe that we have received a very good law that continues to determine that path, that path towards establishing a good, modern society in which higher education, science and research and development are part of a common force that will make progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-24-0.u45694	I thank Dr. Orlic. By old custom, you teachers don't have, this was a little more than ten seconds, a show of time. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank all the Members of the People for their participation in today's debate. I thank the ministers, Mr Sertic and Mr Verbic who participated in the debate today. We want to see Mr. Zivkovic Monday at 9:00 p.m. because Monday at 9:00 p.m. there will be a continuation of this session. Once again to be understood by the MPs, the session is on Monday at 9:00 p.m.
