ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 108 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20487	Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask the Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs on behalf of 39 HTP workers, "Fontana". HTP "Fontana", a.d. from Vrnjačka Banja, employs 140 workers, 39 of whom applied for the social programme. I remind you that HTP "Fontana" is one of the enterprises in restructuring for which, fortunately, there is a great deal of interest from investors. I note that three social programmes have been implemented successfully and without a problem in previous years. A social programme was launched on the basis of a letter from the ministry and a letter from the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour. Then they sent a full survey list, as well as a request for a social programme. The deadline for the delivery of complete documentation was 31.12.2014. The personnel department prepared all the necessary documentation in time. The Supervisory Board signed its agreement on the proposal for a programme and left to the Executive Directors to sign and issue a request for the submission of documents. That was when the problem arose, because the executive directors were silently without any notice and reasoning simply waiting for the deadline that the Ministry had given to limit the social programme. None of the workers have been informed of that. When they learned after the deadline that the documentation was not sent, they tried to get an answer as to why it was not done and they received several naive and so many more significant answers, none of which specifically described the reason. Here are a few answers that management gave them -- what the program would give you, some would give up anyway; we didn't know we had to sign and send; we didn't get anything from the personnel service; the state didn't plan it for us, it was just meant for "14. October’ from Kruševec, etc. All these answers offend common sense. The only answer that made any sense at all was when they looked at the list of workers who checked in and saw that it would be so hard for them to keep doing their jobs, because they couldn't get seasonal labour. And this answer is pretty vague. The main issue for the minister, Mr. Vulin, is this – if they have been officially given from the ministry that they can participate in the competition and if the state has provided money for a social programme that would help not 39 people, but 39 families, how is it possible for the leadership to deny employees the right to a social programme that the state has officially provided? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20488	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20489	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since we have announced reforms in all segments of our society, I think education reform is one of the most important reforms to be implemented by this government. That's why I have a question for the Minister of Education and Education, and it's about primary education. One of the most important problems of primary education is the overload of students with unnecessary knowledge, its infunctionality of primary education, the inlife of primary education and bringing basic education to one violent, overloaded material, which only comes down to students reproduce knowledge without its vitality. What is in all the education systems in the world that have proved to be successful and effective is that they are at the centre of the education system, and if it concerns higher education, then at the center of that education system is a student. The assessment of our parliamentary group is that still students and students are not fully at the centre of the education system. We are fully aware that with the industrial revolution, with the development of civil society and with the accelerated scientific and technological development of civilization, it is always necessary to increase the volume of knowledge, that curricula can not be as they are once and for all, that they are absolutely subject to change and that with the development of the information society all these new skills are to be introduced into school programmes. What is, in our assessment and many analyses, the problem, above all, of basic education, is that experts from their fields, who primarily prepare textbooks on the basis of which teaching programs occur, often include absolutely unnecessary knowledge in these textbooks, an excess of knowledge that does not lead students to logically conclude that they are critically reviewing, that in working with teachers they apply one lifetime in mastering teaching material, but it all comes down to memory memory. In addition to the complexity of teaching materials, organisations and methods of teaching work should be improved. Better co-operation with parents should also be established at the level of educational institution – parent, but first of all, overload with unnecessary knowledge leads to us having so-called. Domination of the lecture teaching, that memory is the basic form of learning, that teaching teachers are dominated in the follow-up, that everything comes down to memory and later reproduction, that school learning and making homework are also reduced to cruel memory. It should come from philosophy that learning is much more than memory, that learning should be thought-out data processing, linking them with earlier data, that learning to solve problems, as well as the application of data obtained in thought or practical activity, that learning and evaluation of adopted content, embezzling them in attitudes and opinions, that the memory function of students is really overloaded, and that this affects also significantly the violation of the physical and mental health of students due to long-term sitting at home, that this also causes a number of health problems, physical problems, psychological problems, etc., that learning often comes down as alienated activity, that it also causes anti-intellectual attitudes of students, so the students are difficult and do not like schools, books, reading, knowledge, education, that this leads to conflicts in human relations. My question is – what will the Ministry of Education and Education do to implement another system of education in primary schools where students will not be burdened with unnecessary knowledge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20490	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SDA Parliament Club Sandzaka-PDD sent a request to parliament that explained the reasons why we asked the president to initiate the procedure for the removal of the president of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality. What the President of Parliament has given us is not an adequate response, because we have not asked the President of Parliament for statistics on the number of sessions this committee has held, nor on the number of laws that have passed through this committee. I think that we should all take care of quality here together, not the quantity and number of sessions, but the quality of the work of the congregation's working bodies, and I think that there are other services for counting and numbers, and that's not the President of Parliament. Secondly, the President is the answer that we have sent to individual MPs, not the parliamentary group. I expect an explanation of why she did it, and I can only conclude from that that is why the President of Parliament has not read at all the request we have proposed, nor the argument that we have made in the request. For the sake of the public, I would just like to say some of the reasons why our parliamentary club requires that the Vice-President of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality be replaced. During his visit to the National Assembly on 5 May 2014, High Commissioner for Enlargement of the EU, Mr Stefan File pointed to the obligation of the National Assembly as the holder of the legislative authority to adopt a concrete programme for resolving the minority issue in Serbia with a precisely defined goal, a clearly defined holder of the programme. The deadline for its implementation shall be the source of the funds necessary for the implementation of that programme. The Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, although directly responsible for meeting this obligation, has done nothing and we believe that the President of the Committee is the most responsible for this failure. The further daunting circumstance of all of this is the negative report "Mayoriti Wright Group", which marks minorities in Serbia as pre-extermination nations, and primarily lists Bosniaks, ethnic Albanians, Croats and Roma. That's one early warning signal this board has also ignored. Refusal of amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Minority Councils submitted by MPs selected from the Bosniak, or Albanian minority electoral lists resulted in a drastic reduction of members of the Albanian National Council to 15 as well as a series of failures to organise and implement elections for the National Greater National Minorities, which have been particularly reflected in the shorting, rights to election lists where they have the appropriate participation in the work of the election bodies and not updating the electoral lists, thus denying minorities the right to choose and to be elected. I also remind you that MP Omerovic is at the session of parliament on 4 June 2014. During a joint debate with the annual reports of the Commissioners for the Protection of Equality, the protection of information on public importance and the Protector of Citizens deceived parliament and the whole public during his address to the closure of the joint debate, saying he was authorised to refuse amendments on behalf of the entire Committee to the conclusion shared by the SDA Sandzak. The Committee on Human and Minority Rights did not sit at that time, nor did the Committee discuss amendments to the MPs, so that he was not authorized to reject our amendments on behalf of the Committee. In those moments, parliament was chaired by a fellow member of parliament who allowed such legal violence and primitiveism and violation of the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. The president was then obliged to protect the Constitution, the law and dignity of the National Assembly, but she failed to do so. Instead, she allowed the session of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights to be held the next day, later, beyond all deadlines and procedures, and then to discuss our amendments. We also drew attention to the scandalous behaviour of the president of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality at the May 16th session when he denied the right of Bosniak MPs to perform their regular prayer to Juma and when he tried to prevent a member of the Committee from coming out. These are all the reasons why we are asking the president to initiate the procedure and to clearly limit whether these proceedings are on behalf of or on behalf of the Committee president and the entire ruling majority. That is why we propose that, as well as the head of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, a representative of the majority people will be elected, taking full responsibility for the level and state of the rights of national minorities in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20492	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20493	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask a parliamentary question concerning the credibility of our foreign policy. I will ask the question to the Prime Minister, Mr Vucic and the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mr Dacic, and that is, why does Serbia not have ambassadors in a significant number of very influential countries of the world, why does Serbia not have ambassadors in some very important countries of the world for over a year? The issue is also about government policy, which is – why in some key places concerning European integration there are no appointed people who should run these jobs and why are there no responsible posts in some ministries appointed state secretaries, and in public enterprises why are there no appointed directors of public enterprises? This speaks of non-serious human policy and foreign policy, as well as of domestic policy-related matters, is being driven by marketing. Of course, I come from basic data, basic facts, which is that in Serbia there is never a larger budget deficit, never a bigger hole in the budget, that a drastically increased debt, over eight billion euros, that wages are reduced, that foreign investments are reduced, or have been suspended, and that our European integration has been suspended or significantly slowed down. Certainly, part of the answer to the question why is it in the fact that we don't have people in key countries of the world who are supposed to represent our country. Maybe our citizens don't even know that we don't have an ambassador in Germany for over a year, in a country crucial to our European integration, in a country crucial to our country's economic development. Maybe Serbian citizens don't know that Serbia has no ambassador for over a year in the United States, maybe citizens don't know that Serbia doesn't have ambassadors in the UAE, the country we're talking about economic co-operation and other business development. Serbia has no ambassadors in Indonesia either, the fourth country per capita in the world. Maybe the citizens don't know that we don't have ambassadors in Argentina, Croatia and some other countries, Syria etc. In nine out of 70 countries where we have total embassies, nine countries have no ambassadors at all. However, it may be the strangest fact and ask the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister – why is Serbia almost two years old director of the European Integration Office? Why has Serbia not appointed state secretaries in some key ministries? Why has Serbia not appointed director of the administration, such as the Diaspora Co-operation Office? Why doesn't he have a director, say, "Lutria" and some other state-owned public enterprises? I have half a minute left, I couldn't list all the institutions where Serbia didn't name everything key people, to ask the governor of the NBS, or governor, which refers to the savings, or citizens of Serbia who have loans in Swiss francs. All the countries in the world that take care of their citizens have taken steps to protect citizens who have loans in Swiss francs, so I ask the governor – will she do anything to help these citizens or, as we understood the other day, will she offer them only sugar and water? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20494	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20495	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first question for the Minister of Transport – why are the rules on the examination of candidates for driver training and why no legal and sublegal acts are respected, why the working bodies and the competent authorities of the ministry do not respect these procedures and why are traffic safety laws not properly respected? We have big problems in this area. We have a large number of car accidents, we have a major threat to the lives and health of Serbian citizens. I think it's high time that the department's department arranged for the law to be respected and the procedures were conducted in accordance with the rules. Another question for the government. The government talks a lot about the economy, about the big problems that hit Serbia, the flood last year. Since May last year, no VAT has been written off to businessmen who have suffered flood damage, whose stock in warehouses has failed. At the request of the tax administrations, they received answers that there is still no corresponding government act on the basis of which, i.e. instructions on the basis of which they can write off VAT to businesses whose goods were injured in floods. I remind you that it is unofficially estimated that citizens and businesses have suffered damages of over two billion euros. Third question also for the government. We've received an audit report from the departments. The State Auditor found that the Ministry of Transport did not respect the Public Procurement Act in 2013. The government and the assembly majority spoke about how this is the most significant law that will bring us the new 800m euros in the budget, and we see 23m dinars in 2013 the Ministry of Transport did not obtain goods under the Public Procurement Act. Also, this Assembly passed the Law on the Restriction of the Number of Employees in the Republic Administration, the Republic Authorities. In 2013, according to auditors, the Ministry of Transport hired persons under contracts for temporary and occasional transactions and contracts for work through the Youth and Student Co-operation and for a certain period of time in excess of the number prescribed by the Law on the establishment of the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration. So these laws apply only to citizens who are not members of ruling parties. Then, the state auditor says the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism has made a distribution for fees to commission members under the envisioned regulation of over 15 million dinars. The ministry also hired persons outside the Law on a limited number of employees in the republican administration and thus violated the law. In 2013, the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism did not respect the Public Procurement Act and did not obtain goods for the value of 792,000 dinars in accordance with this law. Finally, the 2013 report by Alexander Vulin, which was then led by Alexander Vulin, did not respect the Law on the limit of the number of employees in the Republic administration and without a public competition, and based on the financial plan and individual allocation decisions, transferred the funds of 86 million dinars to citizens' associations under the Regulation on funds to promote programmes or missing parts of funds and funding of public interest programmes that are realising associations. The question for the Government - does the Public Procurement Act, the Law on the Limitation of Number of Employees, the Law on Grants of Associations apply only to others and not to ministers in that Government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20496	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20497	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for Minister of Economy Zeljko Sertic and Prime Minister of Vojvodina Mr. Bojan 6% of Pajtic. The agricultural well-being "Alexa Shantic" is located as a company in the privatisation agency's portfolio as one of 502 companies in which the privatisation process has not been completed. He is one of those agricultural goods that the former regime or pushed into large debt, such as "Alexa Shantic" or pushed into the wings and gave in to Saric and Milet Jerkovic. The company "Alexa Shantić" employs 200 employees, i.e. 217 people work in the Action Society "Alexa Shantić". For the privatisation of the Akcionary company Alexa Shantic, 17 letters of interest were sent, out of which are the most serious and the most concrete offer of the company Ferrero and the total investment is about eightm euros. The precondition for the implementation of the sales programme is the full consent of the mortgage creditors of the Akcionar company "Alexa Shantić". The highest mortgages of the First Order are the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Tax Administration. The hypothetical trusts of the second, third, fourth and fifth order are the Vojvodina Development Fund. The government of the Republic of Serbia has recommended that the Deposit Insurance Agency, the Tax Administration and the Vojvodina Development Fund give its consent and thus allow for the privatisation of the Agricultural goods "Alexa Shantic" and allow for the inflow of a significant investment. The recommendation was also addressed by the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Tax Administration, but not the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. Three Management Boards of the Vojvodina Development Fund were held. All discussed the RS government's proposal and although there was no debate and no conclusion was reached. Also, the government of the AP Vojvodina did not consider the recommendation, although two meetings of the government of the AP Vojvodina were held between the delivery of the recommendations. In this way, a large eightm-euro investment in Alexi Shantic in Vojvodina, Serbia, is at risk. On the other hand, since the Vojvodina Development Fund is the mortgage trustee of the second, third, fourth and fifth order, it is risked that in the event of bankruptcy, there is absolutely no single dinar of fixed funds. As a result, my question is addressed to Mr Sertic – are there other mechanisms that would bypass the process of unprofessional, incompetent, irresponsible government Bojan "six per cent" Pajtic in order to enable the investment of Ferrero in the amount of eight million euros? Also a question addressed to the government of the AP Vojvodina and to Mr Bojan "six percent" Pajtic – when will he start doing his job, when will he unblock the privatisation process of the Akcijar society "Alexa Shantic", when will he make it possible and recommend that the Vojvodina Development Fund still collects from the privatisation revenues that have been placed? My second question to the government of the AP Vojvodina reads: On Friday, 16 January 2015, the Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina, Mr Bojan "six per cent" Pajtic was at his party's political rally in the town of Krusevec, at work time. My question is, did he go to his party's political rally that day with a private car or did he use AP Vojvodina's resources, was he on vacation that day, did he use his day off...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20498	Mr. Babic, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20499	... or has he used these political activities again on the cost of Serbian citizens, the citizens of the AP Vojvodina?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20500	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Balint Pastor and Milorad Mijatovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to discuss the draft agenda law set out in the request of 227 MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, besides calling for the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, which was convened at the request of 227 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, the following Dn e v n e d: 1. Proposal for a law on the prevention and diagnosis of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases. We're going to work on the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsic, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I believe that they have been injured. 107, 283 and 284. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly. Here's to try to explain why I think the Rules of Procedure have been broken and I suggest we act so as not to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, gentlemen. National MP Zoran Zivkovic has also signed up today to take part in the debate on the draft law on the agenda of the National Assembly. National MP Zoran Zivkovic has been illegally prevented from entering the Great Hall of the National Assembly, and I believe, gentlemen, that MP Zoran Zivkovic should be allowed to take part in the debate. Here's an additional argument, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, since from day to day we have some new circumstances concerning this case. Dear gentlemen, this case concerns the relationship between freedom of speech and disciplinary measures which necessarily concern constitutional provisions under Article 46. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable President of the National Assembly. Freedom of expression, as we all know, can only be limited if it is a restriction, respected gentlemen, legally and legitimately. Since there is no constitutional condition for the legality of the restrictions and since there is no constitutional condition for the legitimacy of the restrictions on freedom of expression, the only appropriate approach now is that the MP Zoran Zivkovic, the respected president, is immediately provided for entry into the hall and participation in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20502	Thank you. So, no injured Rules of Procedure, no member of your call, from yesterday to today. The explanation is exactly the same, every day. You have also called for an article. 107th and 108th, and not to bid any further – circumstances in which the President of Parliament or the chairman of the Chamber of Parliament takes office at the meeting of the National Assembly. As MP Zoran Zivkovic hurt freedom of expression by jeopardising Parliament's dignity and addressing the chairman as "store one", however, freedom of expression in this parliament can be limited if misused roughly. Because we can't exactly tolerate swearing as freedom of expression or such inappropriate insults. I'm not inclined to, even though I was accused of limiting freedom of expression, and neither am I, nor the chairman in that case. He was warned repeatedly by taking words and away from the session, as a last resort. The Committee on Administrative Affairs has imposed a fine accordingly, and the General Secretariat is responsible for the execution, or measures. Every day, it's spent one day of that punishment, and all I ask is patience. As for the constitutional decision, we didn't get it. As you know, the Constitutional Court has yet to decide on your request. Of course, parliament will implement any decision it receives from the Constitutional Court or if we are ordered to carry out a measure before the punishment is imposed. I thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20503	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I'm advocating a violation of Articles 103, 107 and 113. Namely, my esteemed previous speaker, Col. Pavicevic, advertised day by day through the violation of the Rules of Procedure, alleged violation of the Constitution. I, as someone who has long followed the sessions of this Assembly, which, on the inside, on the outside, remember that this Rules of Procedure has been in effect for 10 years. Article 113 says that one who is away from the session cannot attend sessions for 20 working days. So, 20 days when the assembly works. He insists on reading this article and continues to honor us as we suppress freedom of expression. I cannot believe that my esteemed colleague Pavicevic, was on the list of the party that brought this Rules of Procedure, which even participated in the adoption of the Constitution, so, the party that curbed freedom of expression, the party that violated the Constitution, the party that unequivocally brought this Rules of Procedure. So, he thinks the party on whose list he's been elected, over a long period of more than 10 years, has curbed and violated freedom of expression. If he agrees that he was on the list of such a party, I am even free to vote in Dan for voting that the injured Rules of Procedure was at their expense, but I ask my previous colleague to agree that he was on the party list and that he was elected to the party list, which, by bringing this Rules of Procedure, was cruelly violating freedom of expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20504	Thank you. Article 113 is just saying that the president, i.e. the chairman and secretary-general, is making an effort to implement the measure that has been set out. Do you want to vote? (No) You have received the bill of law submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. It's about the bill on prevention and diagnostics of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the promoter, MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20505	Dear Presidents, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are discussing the so-called Zoya law, a law that comes from a family that lost its little girl a year and a few days ago, lost little Zoya. Mala Zoja and her parents became synonym fighting for life in Serbia, because they fought alone, as well as most parents who have children who have rare diseases, without the support of the state, because the RFO doesn't have this famous code that would identify children who suffer from rare diseases. Unfortunately, little Zoya has lost to Batten's disease. Zoya's parents, Bojana and Danilo Mirovljevic, lost their child. They sued the RFO, and a few months after the death of little Zoya, they got an RFO in court that denied their rights. After a week of the funeral of little Zoya, their struggle to regulate the rights of children suffering from rare diseases by legal means and that no child in Serbia is bothered in this way as Zoja and her parents have struggled and tortured. Zoya in Greek means life. It's been said for a year that this is the law of life for these little ones who are invisible to RFZO and to the health administration. I got in touch with some other parents a year and a half ago, with Davor Dubok whose child suffers from Hunter's syndrome, with parents who made social media orders called "Invisible People", "Invisible Children", for one reason only - because they were invisible to the state. What kind of problems did they have? They faced healthcare professionals who were simply unable to diagnose them and simply through some difficult sentences to me as a physician spoken at that time, that it was impossible to currently diagnose their child, that they should wait another month, a few years, that the disease might show some complications, so that after complications they would recognise the disease, make a diagnosis and then start to treat. Many of our children who have not been diagnosed have been treated practically wrong. You can't treat a child unless you have a diagnosis. That is why the pain in the Mirovljevic family caused a great amount of energy that was launched and directed towards making one legal solution, that no child in Serbia who suffers from rare diseases, of some genetic malformation, has such a problem and that we as a state stand behind it. I want to tell you that the law was written with the Mirovljevic family, that the law was written with one of the three doctors of medical law, Mrs Hajrija Mujovic, that it was written with the lawyers of the Mirovljevic family and was written with the legal service of the Serbian Parliament. I would especially like to thank Mrs Bozani Vojinovic, the secretary of the Health and Family Committee, as well as our assembly lawyer Natasa Rosic, who has been involved in a legal solution that we have handed over in the previous assembly of the Serbian parliament for weeks and months. I want to tell you that this law has been written together with doctors who treat genetic diseases, treat rare diseases, from the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Clinical Centre of Nis and the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina. Together, it was written with groups of NGOs, such as "The Legal Scanner", such as "Blue Circle" and 50 of them. This is a beautiful day for me, because today in the Serbian Parliament we are talking about a law that comes from a family, which has received a broad support from Serbian citizens today, that we have the opportunity to read these members of the bill, to supplement it, and to finally declare it, to show one unity and to show care for those young people who have been virtually invisible in Serbia for many years. I would like to say that the act of adopting Zoya's law shows the maturity of Serbian society to face health problems that are most sensitive and inconceivable than most patients. These are the kind of challenges of the health system, where not everything is desirable or easy. For some situations, efforts and additional activity and solidarity should be made to help and make an improvement for all, as far as possible. Such are the questions of rare diseases, especially children, because they are the most, but also adults who suffer from rare diseases. The law refers to prevention and diagnostics in the field of genetics, but puts focus on rare diseases. It is one of the few laws that already in its title has the name of a rare disease. It already speaks for itself, for it shows that Serbian society is ready to identify and support all those who face one of the rare diseases and conditions. The law aims to eliminate any problems so far in providing health care, primarily detection and diagnosis that are otherwise complex and difficult in many of these cases. So far, the additions to the Health Protection Act and the application of existing rules in practice have proved insufficient. This law will introduce much more clarity in every respect. He wants to correct knowledge of the area, improve procedures, support public-health policy acts, but also the very services of genetic and reproductive health. That is, to respect the needs and possibilities of patients themselves who are suffering from rare illnesses. The wider context of rare diseases is genetic diseases, as almost all rare diseases of genetic origin are genetically caused. From here, it was very important for the law to come from genetic diseases. The law in the title and especially in its head highlights the specificity of the diagnostics of rare diseases. It will better regulate, facilitate and make health care available to these children. Serbia needs to pass this law, not only to discriminate in health care against all those suffering from rare diseases, but also to raise their rights to a higher level. This should follow the examples of developed European countries, whose experience and legislation have been translated into a special convention and its additional Protocol on genetic studies for medical purposes, which was adopted in 2008 in the EU. The reason is that genetics are increasingly finding its application in all other areas of diagnostics, counselling and other procedures characterized by a very pronounced confidentiality and sensitivity of gene reading results, which may be plagued by greater abuse, which calls for greater protection. It's all a reason to support Zoya's law. The issue of responsible and safe work in healthcare should be highlighted through the work of all health services, including those providing services aimed at preventing and protecting genetic and reproductive health. There shouldn't be exceptions. The arrangement contributes to less controversial procedures, or to clarify them more easily. They help better practice and reduce potential mistakes and disputes, as well as unjustified trial before the court. What are rare diseases? There are different definitions of rare diseases. While in the United States, a rare disease is considered to be a disease of less than 200,000 Americans, the European Commission and the EU adopted a definition of a rare disease involving one of the 2,000 members of a population, namely 6% to 8%. By adopting a European definition, it would mean that in Serbia, it is rare that it suffers less than three and a half thousand people on the whole country's territory. There are between 6,000 and 8,000 rare diseases, many of which have a significantly smaller incidence than 1 to 2000. The vast majority of rare diseases have a incidence of less than 1 to 100,000 people. What are the official characteristics of rare diseases, respected colleagues? They're mostly genetic, in 80% of cases. The first symptoms of disease occur at birth or early childhood, in 50% of cases. Children are 75% ill, and 30% of children die until age five. Rare diseases are often chronic, progressive, degenerative, and shorten lifespan. Because of their rarity, the interest of the drug manufacturer has been reduced, so for the vast majority of the disease there is no effective therapy. The real diagnosis of these diseases is often behind some common symptoms. So 40% of patients had previously been misdiagnosed prior to diagnosis, and each sixth patient was operated as a result of the misdiagnosion. This should be echoing in our ears today, knowing that this law will regulate those rights and that these mistakes that have been happening through the health care system will no longer happen. People with rare diseases face the same many hardships that arise from the very rareness of their illness. A long time since the first symptoms to be diagnosed, several years and sometimes decades of waiting for diagnosis, lack of information on the disease itself, where help is obtained, including lack of qualified experts, lack of scientific knowledge, lack of products and appropriate medical aids, social consequences, loss of autonomy, Stigmatisation, isolation, discrimination, reduction of professional opportunities, lack of quality health care, remain excluded even when they have a valid diagnosis, high price of existing medicines and treatment leads to family poverty and reduced availability of treatment, lack of registers of diagnosed patients with rare diseases. How can we change these things? Certainly by adopting today this "Zoja Act" which would regulate the rights and support of these young people, by creating a comprehensive approach to the problem of rare diseases, by developing appropriate public health policies, by increasing the scope of international co-operation, by developing and exchanging knowledge about all rare diseases, not only those who are more common, by raising awareness amongst experts, by encouraging a group of patients to combine and exchange experiences and best examples of practices, by systematically providing quality information for patients. What are the European rules on this issue? The European Union has the so-called regulation. European Regulation of Paediatric Drugs, has Programme of Community Action in the Field of Public Health and has Framework Programme for Research. So, the EU clearly specifies the rights and support of children suffering from rare diseases. There are also additional protocols and conventions on human rights and biomedicine in relation to genetic testing for health purposes. The Member States of the Council of Europe, other countries of the European Community, are signatories to this additional protocol of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of Human Beings as regards the application of biology and medicine. Given that the objective of the Council of Europe is to achieve greater unity of its members and that it is one of the methods that we aim at, it wants to achieve a further achievement of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Taking into account that the objective of this Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine is laid down in Article 1. – the protection of dignity and dignity of all human beings and guarantees to all, without discrimination and respect for their integrity and other rights and fundamental freedoms, in terms of the application of biology and medicine. The passing of this law was motivated, first of all, by extreme human reasons, and then by important medical and legal binding reasons, when it comes to rare diseases. Human reasons indicate that those who suffer from rare diseases are in an invisible and difficult situation, which is why they need special attention from the entire social community and a relationship that respects their personality, dignity, social status, regardless of their difficult health, which has not been the case so far. Medical reasons suggest that patients with rare diseases represent a vulnerabilitating population of patients in Serbia's health system who suffer from the most severe and very often incurable diseases that are the majority population of children and whose life span is often very short. Care for the health of patients at the level of society should apply equally to all patients, whether their diagnosis or not. It is precisely because of insufficient research into the condition of these sufferers and carelessnesss in one period that the current approach and treatment of these patients in Serbia should change from the ground up to now. Due to the complexity of the problem of the health care of the sick, this law does not predicate, nor is it possible to solve all problems, but it comes from prevention and diagnostics, which is often an insurmountable and controversial point. The law wants to help and speed up work on establishing a rare disease registry. The law covers genetic healthcare services because it is the only service, i.e. medical specialty that, in terms of diagnostics, directly treats patients with rare diseases. The law has a positive approach because it connects genetics, pediatrics and gynecology, which sometimes work together or in continuity on diagnostics. Children who suffer from rare diseases are often doctors for months, and sometimes for years they can't determine what disease is involved and can't make a clear diagnosis. If you do not have a clear diagnosis, the child has no right to neither treatment nor wheelchair, nor to enteral food, as she did not have a small Zoya. The aim of the law would be to minimise the length of this process, which would significantly increase the effectiveness of treatment. The patient has the right to diagnosis whenever possible and available. According to the state of development of biomedical and technological knowledge, in the case of serious difficulties or unclear conditions regarding diagnosis, when there is no diagnosis, it will be placed consularly or hypothetically, as a temporary or working diagnosis. The diagnosis, in the sense of this law, precedes treatment and is an integral part of the patient’s notification, to determine, in relation to the proposed treatment, and to give his consent with full information. Legal reasons come from the fact that the area of genetic health is not yet governed by the existing law and that it is a reason to regulate the rights of rare diseases that are a good basis for doing so for the benefit of all others in the patient population who could potentially be in a situation to be treated by some rare or other genetic disease. The law is legally founded and has comparable examples in the laws of other countries, as well as in the additional protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicines, which Serbia ratified in 2010, which is why it is obliged to, as a state, harmonise and comply with the European Charter of Patients' Rights. In addition to these legislative reasons, the greatest reason is seen, however, in the real patients with rare diseases and all forms of health care, and above all, to know what they are suffering from, to decide about themselves, to help themselves, to ask themselves about everything, to open up the proper conditions for them and give them the chance he owes them. The Law on Patients' Rights in this respect is not sufficient because it does not contain provisions on special health services. Therefore, the adoption of the Zoya Law is also necessary in all respects. In a certain sense, he considers it complementary because the provisions refer to and have insight into the solutions of other related health laws. The creation of the legal text is supported by organisations suffering from rare diseases because they view it as a better guarantee of their rights than it has ever been. The legal text regulates both the rights and duties of healthcare professionals and, in a transparent manner, builds on their actions and responsibilities, binding it on a medical standard in which the law has a balanced approach. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since I have now noticed that the parents of little Zoya, Bojana and Davor Miroslavljevic, present with us, would ask for a round of applause to welcome the brave parents who have been fighting for years for their Zoya, with their Zoya suffered a lot of humiliation and a lot of problems, led the child to London for diagnostics, came to the diagnosis of Batten’s disease, themselves financed by the treatment of their child and, unfortunately, lost the battle with Batten’s disease, which is a very dangerous and very rare disease. However, their pain has turned into a powerful energy, driven by Zoya, which is still with us today, since their pain and their energy have driven the desire to help all other children with rare diseases and to regulate their rights through this legal solution. Bojana and her family with little Zoja have become real heroes and real fighters for life because they have overcome insurmountable obstacles, and here today we are entering one end of the legal regulation of this process and this problem called - rare diseases. I want to say that this law is a good civil law and that this is a law that comes from a family that lost a child. I am proud to be a small part of one big process and a good parliamentary practice that needs the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian Ministry of Health to be proud because this is an example that will be heard both in the Balkans and in Eastern Europe, since Balkan countries do not clearly have specific rights and obligations for young people suffering from rare diseases. This law gives them support. At the end, I want to draw attention and I am about to end this law. I told you that the law was still supported by the current minister at the time by Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and called on the ministry, that the extraordinary parliamentary elections had interrupted legislative activity. In this conference, I resubmitted the "Zoja's Law" proposal and set off for one more than decent communication with the current Minister, Mr Loncar. I must say that the whole work on this law that was by the current minister and management of the health ministry is more than correct and well-intentioned, to further improve some of the proposals that came from the Biomedicine Authority and from the Health Ministry Legal Service. It's a really nice day. I am overjoyed because we have a law today that will unite the MPs, and what is more important is to provide state guarantees to some young people who suffer from rare diseases. Thank you very much. I'm ready to answer questions about members of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20506	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome once again both in yours and in my own name Mrs. and Mr. Bojan and Danil Mirovljevic, Zoja's parents, the family from Novi Sad, who also initiated the debate and adoption of this law that we will discuss today, as well as Dr. Hajrija Mujović Zornić, who is also following today's session from our hall gallery. Thank you. I ask if the presidents, or the committees, want a word? Is anyone on the report list in charge of the board? I'll delete the list so Slavica Djukic Dejanovic can apply. I give my word to Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20507	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable parents of little Zoja, Mrs Mujovic, the Health and Family Committee was today in a position to welcome, above all, the citizens' initiative as a way of initiating work in parliament. The cause is, of course, defeating the death of a girl, but the power of parents who have initiated the sensitivity of the government, to accept the initial text, and to make a major contribution to the amendments that are about to be shared with you, to be properly informed, and to actually give our contribution today in accordance with the fact that the government has more than seriously considered the initial text or text in the principle that we are talking about today, shows that serious situations just as we have repeatedly, through recent and earlier history, we in Serbia have been, somehow, joining each other and in one valid way we are discussing respecting the rules of medical professions, the rules of ethics, rules which require naturally and formally legal procedure to give a good answer as the MPs. For this reason, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to convey the Committee's atmosphere that exactly supporting these initiatives and the work of the Health Committee on the subject of Zoya's Law has shown, as has always been, the great maturity of MPs and the president of the Committee, I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20508	Thank you, Mrs. Dejanovic. Have the committees in charge, we've already asked, has there been any reports from the other committee? (No) Do representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word is Suleyman the carbonite. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20509	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to say on behalf of the minority parliamentary group SDA Sandzak PDD, that we are very happy and pleased that today in our country, or our Parliament, there is a complete unity that has come, unfortunately, because of the tragic fate of a small Zoya and her parents. However, as you can see from every accident, something good needs to be drawn. Our colleague Dusan Milisavljevic as one man, as a doctor along with parents who shared the fate and suffering of those parents and pointed out the need for us to all participate in this and pass the law. I'm not gonna talk about this much, I just want to say that this is the law of life. A law that stems from the suffering of men. The law of essence and that this law of essence also shows the fact that we had an extraordinary co-operation of medical profession, legal profession and parliament. And that from an emotionally proposed law, we have translated that emotion into a legal form that came today to be adopted. The special importance of this law is also the fact that the fund envisions this law before the adoption of the law, i.e. since 14 January, it has already begun to act and that 13 children who suffer from these diseases in Serbia are already on the list of funding and already have results. That's one big newspaper. So life doesn't wait for us to pass the law. Therefore, I congratulate everyone, primarily my fellow MP Dusan Milisavljevic, Minister Loncar and all their associates who have made us eat to deal with the essence. If we make other laws like this, we'll all be better off. At the same time, I would like to welcome Zoja's parents, Bojana and Danila Mirovljevic, Hajrija Mujovic, who translated it into a legal form. You see, when we work together, we can get to the point quickly. I think this is a big step towards one better life. This is one good example of overall solidarity and parliament and government and citizens. Thank you for your attention. We also supported this law in the last debate, and now we will support it. The SDA parliamentary group Sandzak PDD will support the adoption of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20510	Thank you, fellow Ugljanin. The next speaker is the authorised representative of the SPO DHSS parliamentary group Ljiljana Kosoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20511	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on the agenda of today's assembly session is the Proposal for a Law on Prevention, Diagnostics of Genetic Diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases – Zoja's Law. I must point out that the SPO DHSS parliamentary group has supported that this and similar bill proposals are found in the assembly procedure and that we finally come to a real, complete solution, and the way of the law from the written, assembly procedure, adoption and finally implementation is sometimes complicated. I thank all MP groups for the law to be passed and brought to life, most importantly, before the problem of genetic diseases and rare diseases requires a lot of effort, knowledge and studioism to solve them. Why is that? Well, it's just a complex area of rare diseases, and a rare disease by definition is a disease that affects less than five to ten thousand people, or as more statistics say one to two thousand. In Serbia, this means that a disease can be said to be rare if it suffers less than 3,500 people, and yet the largest number of these diseases occur more rarely, one in 100,000 or millions. Today it is known for its data: 6,000 to 7,000 rare diseases, and by the European Commission's estimates 6% to 8% of the population has a rare disease. EU data suggests 27 member states that 29 million EU citizens have some of the rare diseases. Their common characteristics are that 80% of rare diseases are genetically caused, that 75% of rare diseases affect children, that the first symptoms occur already at birth or in early childhood and that they are the most common consequence of permanent disability. What about the data when it comes to Serbia? Not all patients suffering from rare diseases have been diagnosed in Serbia, and it is impossible to identify the exact number of patients and make a register, and we are taking this particular data, on the European average, between 6% and 8%, which would mean that about 500,000 people suffer from rare diseases in Serbia. What are their problems? First of all, the lack of diagnosis is largely without diagnosis, lack of information on the disease itself, lack of information on where to obtain aids and even lack of medical aids, lack of information on quality personnel, social consequences, isolation, discrimination, reduction of professional opportunities, lack of quality health care, because they remain excluded from healthcare and even when the diagnosis is established. The high prices of existing medicines, treatment, and treatment are unreachable and that human factor, which must not be forgotten in statistics medicine is not a figure, one per 1,000, according to 100,000 or million. If I'm that one million, it's 100% for me, and all the problems that exist give the feeling of the infirmity of the person, the family, the environment, the health system. All of his factors. The chosen pediatrician, neonatologist, neurologist, from home health to clinic. I'm imposing the need for a system solution. Just passing the law, and it is necessary to enable complete diagnostics, because the sooner the disease is diagnosed, the more effective and cheap treatment will be. Sending biological samples to diagnostics abroad is very expensive and generally falls on the patient's burden, mostly parents, because it's about children. In the previous period, information has been sent several times that an agreement has been reached and that these costs will be borne by health insurance, but the agreement between the health ministry and the RFZO has not been respected. The importance of this problem of rare diseases has been marked since 2008 by the International Day of Rare Diseases, on the last day of February of each year. It is an event that aims to raise awareness of rare diseases and thus improve the life of the sick. The target group is the widest public, sick, associations, and above all policy makers. Three goals need to be achieved through system solutions. And what are three goals? The first would be precisely the diagnostics and prenatal diagnosis of rare diseases to provide for the cost of the state, people suspected of one of the rare diseases must themselves pay for expensive laboratory and genetic analyses necessary to confirm medical suspicion of one of the rare diseases. Two, the aim is also to register rare diseases that would allow us to finally have a precise insight into the number of persons of certain diseases and facilitate the exercise of rights in the domain of social and health care and the state of proper planning of the necessary resources and resources. The third objective is the national strategy for rare diseases, because the adoption of a strategy, as a document, is essential that activities should be defined in relation to the resolution of different issues in rare diseases, and the state would show concern for rare diseases. Personally, as a MP, and primarily as a longtime pediatrician, I think that everything forward is more than enough to pass this law. The reasons are, firstly, human and then medically and legally binding, and thus far the approach and treatment of these patients in Serbia will change from the ground. It certainly is not possible to solve all problems, but it comes from prevention and diagnostics, which is often an insurmountable and controversial point. Connecting genetics, pediatrics and gynecology, then the right to diagnosis and length of the diagnosis process, should be reduced to a minimum, information given to the patient on both diagnosis and treatment. I would also highlight the members of the law which clearly defines the following areas: prevention of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases, predictive diagnostics, prenatal diagnostics, postnatal diagnostics, target diagnostics in children and adults, in particular Article 31, which prescribes when and under what conditions the diagnostic committee decides to send a sample, i.e. biological material abroad or sending the patient himself suspected of rare diseases, to treatment abroad. And lastly, as well as responsibility for the damage diagnosed by the patient, who is here, for the first time defined and in one place, however, my personal opinion was yes, I intended to write the amendment, but I heard on the Committee that the Ministry of Health is, in any case, supportive. In the end, I would point out, by passing this law, we will show care for the health of the sick and at the level of the state, and we should treat all patients equally, whether they suffer from rare diseases or not. And on February 28, 2015, the International Day of Rare Diseases, we mark a major step forward with legislation. That is why I am convinced that there will be no amendments to this law aimed at the sealing of the political party, but only in terms of improving the law and I hope, and I am sure that we will unanimously adopt it. In the end, thanks to Zoe's parents for the courage, because many little Zoes will have a better and brighter future. Thank you and all the associates who supported this billmaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20512	Thank you, colleague Kosoric. The word is proposed by Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20513	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, counterpart Kosorić and distinguished colleague Ugljanin, since he is not here, I would like to make two comments on his and your presentations. This law regulates something else I didn't say in the first act. So far, parents of children suffering from rare diseases had no legal right to carry out material for diagnosis in foreign laboratories. It means that if you have a sick child, the state isn't helping you, then you're smuggling yourself literally, across the border a sample of blood or a piece of muscle tissue, or in a tube spit on your child and across different customs you come to England like the parents of little Zoes came and unfortunately fought that way. This is legal regulation and these issues. This will now be regulated by the state and the state will send these tissue samples to processing in one of the rare diseases labs. Also, I want to say that Serbia is developing and investing in laboratories that could diagnose some rare diseases, but they can't do everything, and that's why it's important, that the state makes a deal with some of the reference laboratories that register rare diseases, for example in Heidelberg, Germany or some lab in Paris, and that we have as a deal for heart and lung transplants that we've made as a state with Vienna and Algemeines Krankehaus or AKH clinic in Austria. So, that's the answer to the question that was, in fact, not the question, but also in your presentation, and I want to say, since Mr. Ugljanin talked about some of the little ones who got the priority, they didn't have a diagnosis and they got the support of the state, that's exactly what I really want, and I want to commend the complete management of the humanitarian fund headed by Mrs. Tamara and Professor Vukanovic and certainly with Minister Loncar who gave the order to take on the urgent and accelerated procedure of those children who we know, who have no diagnosis that together with their parents we were in the Ministry of Health and they handed over the documents. They're waiting for their samples to be sent to one of those two reference laboratories to get a diagnosis. However, I would like to say that we are not mistaken. It's not those 13 little people we took to the health ministry, it's not the only kids with rare diseases that haven't been diagnosed in years. There are other children who live somewhere in Bujanovac, who live somewhere in Novi Pazar, who live somewhere in India, live somewhere in Majdanpek or in some smaller place, who can't reach Dusan Milisavljevic or can't reach the Minister of Lonchar they need, and that's why this law to systemically regulate their rights and not depend on humanity, whether we have a human MP or a Parliament's concise or a human minister, but that it is simply legally regulated and that the rules apply to the state to stand up to those children very responsibly and to say, in how long after six months, doctors can't diagnose the state to make a sample of tissue, muscle, spit to one of these reference laboratories so that they can be diagnosed. It's very important, dear colleagues, because when you don't have a diagnosis, like little Zoya, like no other children, you can't treat that child. You can wander like through the dark, touch. Mostly doctors put on no diagnosis, put on syndrome. Under syndrome there could be ten diagnosiss, ten illnesses. So this is a good bill of law that will really stop and support those little ones who suffer from rare diseases.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20514	Thank you, fellow Milisavljevic. The word has a representative of the SVM parliamentary group, Mrs Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20515	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected parents, it is a fact that the issue of health care from gross national income in the Republic of Serbia is one of the lowest in all of Europe. However, despite the inherited problems of the past in the field of health care, I must stress that during the term of office of the previous health ministry as well as the mandate of the current health ministry, visible progress can indeed be seen. Since any reforms or reforms in the field of health, health insurance, health care require time and can be a long-term process, we are aware that many citizens, patients still face many problems today. For the SVM parliamentary group, it is extremely important to raise the level of health services in homes of health, public hospitals. It is important for us to be one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On this occasion, during this debate, we would like to welcome, first of all, the initiative of Mr. Dusan Milisavljevic and the adoption of this Law on the Prevention and Diagnosis of Genetic Diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases, etc. "Zoja's Law". We would also like to welcome this way, i.e. the co-operation of the Ministry of Health, and that the initiative of the MP they worked on together has arrived on the agenda, as the esteemed promoter has pointed out, there have been several lawyers working together and there has been a solution for which we will all vote in the voting day. The passing of this law is of course motivated first by human reasons, and all in order to facilitate the lives of patients who are struggling with a rare disease and of course to ease the lives of their families, their loved ones. The essence of this law is to allow for the diagnosis and treatment abroad as much as in Serbia, during a certain period doctors do not determine a clear diagnosis. In particular, this bill provides for the education of a multidisciplinary consular council on diagnostics issues, which in case the patient remains without a confirmed diagnosis even after a genetic analysis, means he has no clear diagnosis, gives an opinion on whether it is actually possible to provide additional genetic research in Serbia. To the extent that this opinion is negative, it means a negative opinion on how it is possible to ensure that additional diagnostic procedures are carried out in Serbia, then this multidisciplinary consularally greater delivers an opinion, or a proposal on the need to carry out the same procedures in a foreign health institution. The decision to refer biological material, as we have heard or heard from the insured person himself in a foreign institution to carry out additional genetic procedures, is made by the RFZO, means the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and the decision on the allocation of funds from here repeatedly mentioned budget fund for the treatment of disease, condition and injury that cannot be treated in the Republic of Serbia is made by the Minister of Health himself. Those who suffer from rare diseases, in every respect, are in a very difficult situation, a very difficult situation, which is why they really need special attention and respect for all of us, the whole society. They represent one of the most vulnerable, vulnerabilitating patients, suffering from the most severe and often incurable diseases. What's even sadder and harder is that it's mostly children. I don't want to repeat myself, we've heard percentages that about 70% of cases are children, that in a large percentage of their lifetime is very short, that many of them, unfortunately, lose the battle with disease five years ago. In any case, it is positive and good that this proposal is on the agenda and that we will adopt it these days. It is indeed time for the treatment of these patients in the Republic of Serbia to change. Furthermore, the fact is that the area of genetic health has not yet been regulated by a special law in our legal system. As we've heard, in the case of patients, it's mostly children, in the case of children suffering from rare diseases, doctors unfortunately very often for months, and sometimes they can't determine exactly what disease it is and can't make a clear diagnosis. We are also aware that if there is no diagnosis, the child has no right to treatment, no right to other necessary aids and the like, making it difficult for both his life and his parents, or the nearest, legal counsel to help him. We haven't mentioned the number yet, we talked mostly about Serbia, but today we talked about the Health Committee that it may seem that the number is small but in the whole world 350 million people are facing some of the rare diseases and the esteemed chairman of the committee that has reported and, as a rapporteur of our committee, has stressed that it is indeed the most expensive misdiagnose and imagine only operations that are necessary and done precisely because of the wrong or unclear diagnosis. So one of the basic goals of adopting the so-called Zoya law is that the length of diagnosis is reduced to a minimum, to be as short as possible, not to wait months and years, which, of course, would increase the effectiveness of treatment. In practice, this law should provide for the right of rare diseases to all forms of health care, and above all, that they themselves know what they are suffering from, to ask about everything, about their condition, to decide about themselves, about their health, about their treatment. We believe that the active participation of citizens in the care of their own health, above all in terms of full information about their situation, about their health and certain freedom of choice, whether they will accept the proposed therapy, the degree of decision-making, the impact on their own treatment is of paramount importance. The association of the Duke Hungarians is, of course, the view that all patients should have the best medical service possible. We therefore believe that all insured persons under equal conditions should be allowed to exercise the right to health care and other health insurance rights. The primary right of patients is the right to diagnosis whenever possible and available. Diagnosis is an integral part of the patient’s notification and based on which the patient himself or in the case of a child or various inability, his legal representative determines whether he will accept the proposed treatment. Early diagnostics must be a priority and it is a duty for all doctors to make a diagnosis in due time if possible. The second segment to which this bill applies is prevention. Prevention is also necessary. It is therefore essential that health services do not lose sight of their obligation to implement preventive measures, to raise awareness of people, to provide health services at appropriate intervals. Population groups exposed to an increased risk of disease should be entitled to appropriate medical services. Preventive prenatal and postnatal healthcare is an investment in the future of all, and the highest future of women and newborn children. The doctor is, in effect, obliged to determine whether there is a risk and how likely it is to be born with genetic disease or genetically conditioned anomaly. Mandatory screening of newborn children is also of paramount importance. Based on this bill, the health minister will use the solution to determine health institutions at a tertiary level to carry out the activities of the Centre for Clinical Genetics and Rare Diseases. There are also certain jobs in this proposal, i.e. certain amendments to be adopted, which will be carried out at this centre, and these jobs are, among other things, prenatal and neonatal hideouts, mentioned genetic counselling, management, extremely significant, and this is already partially regulated and recently adopted by the Health Records Act, a register of rare diseases for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is significant that these centres will deal with co-operation with reference foreign centres for the diagnosis and treatment of genetic and rare diseases, as well as with the network of both European and world organisations for genetic and rare diseases and, of course, the necessary continuous education from these areas. Let me mention this debate and remind us that in the past few years we have passed laws and other regulations that have improved the normative framework for the achievement and protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, but unfortunately, members of this particularly sensitive group continue to face many problems in practice daily. They are often prevented from achieving those rights and from achieving the desired level of social inclusion. People with disabilities in the Republic of Serbia most often face problems in achieving social health care. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians certainly supports decentralisation, so we are also in favour of decentralisation of health care and health insurance and for an even better availability and accessibility in the use of healthcare. Let me get this straight. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians certainly welcomes the adoption of laws on prevention, diagnostics of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases, so-called Zoya's law. As I mentioned, this way of thinking about solving specific problems is certainly good that amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Health Ministry's working group, this proposal will still comply with health laws, such as the Law on Patients' Rights, not so long ago amended the Health Insurance Act, the Health Insurance Act and the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health, since unfortunately it is not a rare practice that in our legal system we have some laws in cohesion, which is certainly inadmissible. So, in voting day, we'll vote for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20516	Thank you, colleague Kovac. The word has the mandated representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Mrs. Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the respected parents of Little Zoya, today is before us the law that wrote his own life. As Tolstoy would say, every happy family looks like one another, and every unfortunate unhappy in its own way. In this House we had Maria's law, now we have Zoya's law, we expect Tijana's law. As a society, we face difficult times and face great challenges and opportunities, and today it is one of those days to act in the right way, to change them, because it is certain that each of us can change at least one piece of the universe. That's where he's alone. We are now in a position and are responsible for making one significant change. This is a modern law that introduces modern standards into something that has never been arranged in this way. It's a big step. Every such big step is a building step of better health, better society, a happier future. Unfortunately, in every big step like this, we put a victim in it. It's what obliges us to do this job that's ahead of us both well and quality. What this law, as they say, is written in emotions, and the best ones written in emotion, should be arranged primarily for early diagnosis of rare diseases and genetic diseases. What this law is about is the possibility of prenatal diagnostics, the possibility of a choice in whether someone will opt for parenthood if faced with a serious illness. So this is something that will change consciousness. This is a law that will change the awareness of both citizens and health care, health workers. This law also not only improves the health system. The education of healthcare professionals will improve citizens' education on this issue. We didn't have a lack of empathy. What we always face is the problem of the administration and solving administrative problems. Unfortunately, families whose members, most often children, suffer from rare diseases, have difficulty carrying the burden they carry and cannot say that they are as invisible as society is unprepared to react in the right way and to respond in a quick way, and the passing of such a law I think it will just remove some of those barriers that people whose children are most often suffering from rare diseases face. Of course, early diagnostics is half of the cure, that timely response by real diagnosis is almost certain healing. That's what we're going to do. The health of the nation is the most important resource available to one country. Never enough and never enough perfectly arranged. This law that we are about to pass is certainly a serious step towards a good, healthy nation that will have a better future. It is certain that one day we will be proud to have participated in this particular part of the work and to have passed one of these laws. Of course we'll try to fix it with amendments. No law is ever perfect until it begins to live, until we see its application, but for that there is this tall body, that what I said at first, life wrote, later and life arranged for the pleasure of all of us and for the benefit of all of us. Because of all this, New Serbia will support this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20518	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. The word has the mandated representative of the JS parliamentary group Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20519	Thank you. Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, the respected parents of Little Zoya, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to stress that the MPs of the JS Group in the voting day will support the proposal for a bill on genetic and rare diseases. I must admit that the bill on prevention, diagnostics of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases, popularly called Zojo's Law, according to the tragically deceased Zoja Mirovljevic, encouraged me to be more interested in this matter, especially after I learned that its appointment on the agenda of the National Assembly had caused a violent reaction to the public. Everything that is related to health, especially children, is extremely reflected in the mood of citizens, who have been advertised in different places this time. This is confirmed by the comments, reactions on social networks that do not support us, as well as the petition I learned in preparation for this session, which was signed by more than 3,700 people on the Internet in less than 20 days. This, for example, is more than necessary to cross the threshold of the local parliament in the King and to win four parliamentary mandates. I'm not an expert in medicine, so I can't plead on certain items defined by the bill, but as a parent, I can't support a law like this that, I believe, more than many others will contribute to saving the lives of those who are suffering from an unknown disease. When I look at some of the programs of one of the four local televisions in the city that I come from, I notice that people who ask for help abroad are advertised on a daily basis. Almost where there's no place to glue posters in a city where there's not at least one call to raise the resources needed for treatment. Help applications come from information emissions, not rarely on Serbia's public service programmes. Different humanitarian actions are organized, collecting money by schools, and it is not rare for someone to knock on the door asking for help for treatment. To others, such as Zoja Mirovljevic, the chance of knowing what they were suffering was not provided or not given in time, and because of the fact that they were denied the human right to know what they were suffering from, they had to pay the highest price possible. No one has yet precisely counted the number of rare diseases present in Serbia, or how many sufferers. Based on the world's statistics, they appear in one of the two thousand inhabitants roughly estimates that there are about 450 thousand patients here, although there are experts who consider these estimates excessive. Although there is no cure for most rare diseases yet, the quality of life of people with rare diseases and their families is considered to depend more on the availability of treatment and support services than on the severity of treatment itself. I was particularly shaken by a statement from parents who were in a position to be told in just three hours by five different diagnosiss, very serious, but without any concrete confirmation. What they're wandering about, for parents, can't be acceptable in a situation where they have to go home, watch their child die. So far, children with rare diseases have been invisible, even parents on social networks have registered as invisible people. Therefore, by passing Zoya's law, these children will be visible to both the state and society. How slow we have reacted to prove to the American doctors that genetic therapy for Batten's disease will be called Zoya's therapy. Finally, because of everything I have stated, in the voting day, the JS parliamentary group will support the adoption of the bill we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20520	Thank you. The proposal is proposed by Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20521	The esteemed chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, said in the previous two discussions of my colleagues that in some tertiary centres, centres for rare diseases would be formed. I want to tell you that's clearly precise. It will not depend, but it is clearly specified, that in clinical centres in Serbia, and you know that we have in Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis and Belgrade, where we are already dealing with the problem of rare diseases, so there will be no problem in the centres of territorial state protection developing centres for clinical genetics and rare diseases. What's important to know is that in these centers they will also have an expert commission to question the very diagnostics of minors who suffer from a rare disease. They will be composed of three members, who are selected by a clinical genetic physician with completed specialisation, a doctor or a biologist with experience in genetic testing and a doctor with completed specialisation of paediatric or internal medicine and experience in the field of diagnostics and treatment of congenital metabolism errors. The legal path here is clearly where diagnostics are going to be done. Rare diseases are rare and cannot be placed in some minor health centers or health homes. It's very important that we have an educated cadre. We're investing as a state, as a health resort, we already have people dealing with a serious genetic problem, a problem of rare diseases. This legal solution further and clearly determines the existence of these diagnostic centres for rare diseases. What we need to know, as a rule, when we talk about the definitions of rare diseases, we primarily think about a small incidence of cases of illness. However, what the public needs to know is that it is rare to observe and not just the frequency of the disease, but rather the category of persons who have suffered from it. For example, cancer is generally not considered a rare disease, but if it happens in small children, it is considered a rare occurrence. It is similar in some adult diseases, which are otherwise not rare, e.g. Dementia, but it has some very rare forms. Another such feature that characterizes rare diseases is that they are difficult to detect in terms of diagnosis, where they have a worsening of the health condition and a vague clinical picture at all times, which is very dangerous, especially if they are dealing with small children. The largest number of rare diseases is innate, genetic origin, which is often masked in the newborn, as there is only one symptom. Other tests and analyses of the cause and condition of the disease are not carried out. Rare diseases have long been neglected, as they have had little publicity in public. They were followed by little scientific interest and pharmaceuticals, as well as doctors themselves. Ensuring an adequate legal framework for the treatment and research of rare diseases is therefore one of the priorities today. Serbia has before many countries entered this legal regulation, so this is very good. Also, there is a lack of legal basis and is believed to be in co-ordination with the lack of medical knowledge of rare diseases. For example, one approach to treatment as one of the main principles of medical law for patients suffering from rare diseases is not yet sufficiently secured. The law faces the challenge of replacing the lack of medical knowledge and health resources in this area by defining new rules, establishing specific powers in health care and reforming the location of research efforts by scientists. At present, high standards of health care have been met, but the question is whether they are applied equally to all individuals and whether they recognize such problems as they often have in a population of rare diseases. What I will very often stress today is that the success of this law is to make it clear to the healthcare professional that when he cannot diagnose those therapeutic centres for rare diseases, he must send a further diagnostic of that child or a sample of his tissue to one of the reference clinics or to some of the reference laboratories. It has not been a practice so far, and it is one success of this law that will more than strongly support those youngsters who suffer from rare diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20522	The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20523	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished parents without whose humanity would not get the law we have today. Indeed, rare diseases of children are not as rare as we think of them today. This indicates that in Serbia it is assumed that about half a million people suffer from these diseases, i.e. citizens, but the fact is that in the world about 350 million people who suffer from these diseases show their spread and directly suggest the importance and functioning of their treatment. It's really a very heterogeneous group of diseases. Some have been discovered very long ago, as is said by the legacy of debloodism discovered in the ancient world in the Mediterranean area and also called valemia, created by the coin of two Greek words waves, meaning the sea and anemia, which means the lack of blood. Others were named after the organs and tissues that were affected, some by the symptoms, and some by the scientists who discovered them. About 80% are genetically conditioned, although there are rare infectious and rare autoimmune diseases, but there are just as few cancers that can be managed under this group. The first symptoms occur at birth and early childhood in almost half the patients. In 75% of patients, children died, and 35% died by the age of 3. What's defeated is that 40% of the patients get the wrong diagnosis. The most common consequence of these diseases is permanent disability. The recent major shift in medicine and pharmacology, primarily in the field of etiopathogenesis, is the understanding of rare diseases and the introduction and definition of new therapeutic ischaemia and drugs that can greatly improve the quality and expected life of these patients. They're making a new request to us medical workers, but also to the entire community in general to give these patients a new chance. For me, the debate that has just been taking place in our public for the past few months has, I believe, contributed to raising awareness of rare diseases. As we know, the Fund for the Treatment of Rare Diseases has been established, the National Strategy for the Treatment of Rare Diseases, which is of paramount importance. Today, we have a proposal for a law that is socially beneficial and important and which is the continuation of this continuum in the fight for a better and more accessible health service in our country. We have one of the laws before us where the proposer is not in the first place how imperative it is for all of us to stand unanimously behind such a legal solution today. The fact is that one version of this law was already proposed to put on the agenda by emergency procedure, as was the fact that the proposal did not go through the analysis of the Committee of Representatives and that most MPs, especially the doctor, had no timely opportunity to contribute through appropriate congregation bodies. Today's proposal corrects that, and I am convinced that all MPs will vote for its adoption. The solutions this law offers must be part of a broader reform of our health system that the Ministry of Health is currently implementing. We must not remain at the level of partial ad hoc solutions, because we must all agree that care for the health of the patients at the level of society should equally apply to all patients whether their diagnosis is rare or not. Therefore, a certain time was needed for legal preparation and compliance with other laws in this area. Today's bill of law is comprehensive and particularly complements the Law on Patients' Rights which is not sufficient in this respect, since it does not contain provisions on special health services. This law defines the right to suffer from rare diseases, primarily to know what they are suffering from, to decide about themselves, to help themselves, and to wonder about everything, and to have their health system create appropriate conditions and give them a chance to cure them. The law specifically treats predictive diagnostics, or genetic counselling, as well as prenatal, postnatal diagnostics, as well as targeted diagnostics in children and adults. I think it's the center of the problem. We need to rely too much on our capacities. What I heard today on the board and what I hear and now from the promoters is that it will be formed and that this law establishes tertiary centres in clinical centres that will deal specifically with these conditions and that is of great importance. It puts our capacities in the function of solving these problems, which is extremely important not only from the view of medical access, but also because it strengthens our educational component and our ability to monitor, perfect, learn new methodologies in laboratory research, which is the basis and base of our research centres. I said we need to rely on our capacities too much. Serbia's clinical centre must develop its laboratory for diagnostics. At the Endocrinology Clinic, there is a laboratory for molecular genetics and since 1996 it has been genetically screening for various genome deformations. When genetic diagnosis of the disease is established, you are able to perform genetic diagnosis and family tests to predict whether a child is going to get sick within that family. This opens up the possibility of prenatal diagnostics that you can determine or rule out the existence of a genetic disease during pregnancy. If you take that one man has 25,000 genes and there are between five and eight thousand genetic diseases, then you realize that this one or two or three research units are more than insufficient. It certainly needs to be strengthened, but it is necessary to establish several more similar points that will deal with genetic screening of rare but common diseases. There is no more real way than to invest in your research capacities and your own human resources. Sending biological material abroad, i.e. sending patients suspected of a rare disease to treatment abroad, can only be a temporary solution and can be envisaged, as I heard from the promoter that it will also be proposed for special cases that can not really be diagnosed in our conditions, by the prerogatives of our experts. Also, what's good about this law is that it stresses the importance of investing in its own diagnostic potential. Today I heard what I knew, which is that in our public, and even in professional, the wrong opinion that these procedures are extremely expensive. Most of the lab tests are not expensive and as far as I've heard those most important do not cross the 500 to 2,000-euro line, and we certainly need to make it available and cover it with budget funds. However, these prices would be cheaper in our labs and I'm glad that this law and the legislator of this law thought of it and gave an overwhelming advantage to the development of our own potential. It is of great importance to form a common register of rare diseases where I have heard that the Institute of Public Health is working and ending this task is extremely important to see both the scale of the problem and the planning of the solution to the problem. What is excellent in this law is Article 44, which proposes the Commission's obligation for rare diseases of the Ministry of Health to support the work of the Centre for Clinical Genetics and Rare Diseases and to establish a register of rare diseases within six months of the entry into force of the law. There's a part about responsibility for damages, which can be diagnosed by a patient, a lot of inaccuracies, that could be misused. But on the Health Committee, we have received and heard the argument that the amendments to the Government and amendments will be more specifically addressed to this issue, which will warn doctors to be unjustly accused of what they have not done and which, unfortunately, has happened several times. Prenatal diagnostics are, in my opinion, extremely important and, as I said, it's the best kind of control and monitoring and reduction of the potential for these diseases. So, of course, it is very important to educate the health care professional to identify these conditions and direct the patient to prenatal diagnostics. But I have to say, it's an extremely difficult task. The procedure itself is extremely difficult and special attention should be paid to it. Of course these children's carers also need wider support, but also legal relief, especially in the context of child care rights. Under the current law, the parent of a sick child has the right to leave work only until the child's fifth year. In cases of later onset or progression of children’s illnesses who are more than five years of age, parents remain jobless and able to care for children. Also, there is a lack of social protection law and a rule on physical damage. They are not appropriate and do not include the definition of minimality of some of the cases that occur in patients with rare diseases. For example, people with bullous epidermosis often remain disabled due to the nature of the disease, but the Regulation does not count for people with disabilities, only because they have no muscle or bone tissue damage, and they are in any case disabled workers and should really be given full support and attention. These illogicalities must certainly be removed and I believe that we will work on them and that we will quickly remove them, as Parliament and as responsible people. The Ministry of Health, and above all the minister, show great effort and effort to reform and strengthen the health system as soon as possible, which is the first and primary task of all of us, especially the doctors in this assembly. There is also excellent communication, as far as I have seen, between the Committee of Resorship and the Ministry, which enables a truly high quality impact of MPs or members of that Committee, i.e. a doctor on the work or activity of the Ministry itself in creating the reform that we are about to take. That's something to be commended for. Individual MPs, such as the doctor, my professor, Milisavljevic, who has indeed shown himself to be a doctor and a lesser politician, should be commended, and that is a great pride for us. I believe the proposal for today's law is part of a serious plan and a more comprehensive reform of the health system. Since we, as Social Democrats, are really seeking that all people, all citizens in our country, have available and quality health care, and that the central place of this law is the availability of diagnosis, we will therefore mentally support this law and we will vote for it in the Voting Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20524	Thank you, colleagues of Bacevac. The word is re-proposed, Professor Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20525	Dear fellow Muamer, I'd like to say a few things to your presentation. You stated that parents of children suffering from rare and severe illnesses have a problem with their absence from work. That's right. In this law, however, it was not a topic. I want to confirm the information that you yourself said, that there was also a petition of citizens who asked that they have the right to be with children while their children are being treated. Among other things, one of the signatories of that mutation, and more than 60,000 signatures were collected, is sitting with us today, which is Bojana Mirovljevic, Zoja's mom. Those parents, with their children, strike in front of the Ministry and in front of the Republic Government, looking for exactly what you just said and I support it, but it's somewhere stuck in the Ministry of Labour. It is something we have yet to open as a topic in the Serbian parliament. I support you that as a member of the ruling coalition we are working on this and that these parents, and the collected signatures, bring and talk about this subject as well. What you mentioned, around these territorial centres for rare diseases, I want to say that it's very important that there are these centres and that the diagnostics of rare diseases in these centres, prenatal, neonatal screening, genetic counselling and patient care will be in them, that there will be a register of rare diseases, which is not the case now. Unfortunately, in Serbia, you do not have a national register for rare diseases. We don't even know how many children we have from rare diseases. This 13 young people and their mothers, who were together with Bojana Mirovljevic and with me at the minister of the new year, are just a number of children, and they are only parents we know of, with whom Bojana is constantly in contact, with whom I am in contact with through social networks, but there are some other young people and their parents who do not know how to reach Belgrade, i.e. They don't have the money to buy a bus ticket, let alone whom to turn to. That's why it's important that they have a law that guarantees them that they have the right and that they know who they're going to address at these therapeutic centres for rare diseases. Co-operation is also very important with reference foreign centres for the diagnosis and treatment of rare diseases, as well as with a network of European and world organisations for rare diseases. Health care is absolutely not politics, and I support you there. So, we should also have good relations with the Croatian health ministry, and with the Bosnian health ministry, and with the Macedonian, with Montenegrin, to create perhaps a regional centre for rare diseases in the Balkan territory, because it's much easier when you buy reagents, when you do diagnostics for a larger population. Serbia with a population of seven and a half to eight million people does not have the capacity to diagnose these rare diseases, while Germany has 70 and a few million inhabitants and it can in Heidelberg or in some other cities to create and narrowly specific laboratories for the diagnosis of rare diseases. It might be one way to improve the quality and our professions in the Balkans. Medical institutions, or private practice, should also have the duty to inform these therapeutic centres of rare diseases, to suspect any of the rare diseases and to send those children to these clinical centres, where children would be examined and diagnosed. What was a problem and slow, it was treatment abroad. Regulation on the conditions and manner of sending insured persons to treatment abroad, Articles 3 and 5. Annex 1 makes it clear that the right to refer to prescribed cases that the law states as exceptional: "The passage to treatment abroad – if there are medical indications, only suffer from certain diseases in seven medical areas, for interventions and treatment not received in Serbia's healthcare. “ These children, little Zoya, I, on her case, no matter how much, every time I mention her name to her parents, Zoya was not in that famous codebook abroad and Zoya had no chance of the Republic Fund. With this law, those children will have the right. The Republic Fund and our health administration will have to comply with the laws that we adopt and these children will practically get a chance at diagnostics abroad, and in some cases also for treatment abroad. I support and agree with your presentation today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20526	Thank you, fellow Milisavljevic. The speech is held by the president of the parliamentary group "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", Mr. Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20527	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members, this session is different from any previous one in this session because we have one example of a citizens' initiative, one law that needs to be resolved, to help solve a sensitive issue, issues that deal with difficult dramas and family tragedies, which, above all, affect small children. We have heard a lot today about the very idea of this law, how it should solve the problems children and their families face, how the state of Serbia and our health system can help them to do so and, in the end, to establish the obligation that if these diseases cannot be diagnosed in Serbia, then this diagnosis should be done and established where possible and to determine the therapy that can help in these cases. I would like to say that, of course, we will also support the adoption of this law as a good starting point and say that although it has been standing in the assembly procedure for a long time, it may not be fully discussed and that it also shows the fact that we only received amendments from the Government this morning, that we have a lot of amendments that other parliamentary groups have made, because there are in some things, it seems to me, insufficiently defined members of the law. The fact is that this law, apart from this noble idea of allowing for the diagnosis and treatment of rare diseases, is not only in the country, but also abroad, this law deals with certain other things that are in the title of the law - the Law on Prevention, Diagnostics of Genetic Diseases, genetically established anomalies and rare diseases. This law, I think, is a newspaper in our legal system and it opens up some issues, legal issues, ethical issues, as well as expert medical issues. Some of the things that we don't think are best defined by this law, we've tried to correct through amendments. The government and other fellow MPs reacted similarly. I just want to mention some of these things in this discussion as topics to think about. I believe that this will not end with the adoption of this law today, regardless of the form in which it was adopted, whether with or without amendments, because these are topics that the world of daily debates, given that science and medicine are developing, that the limits of what is possible today are shifted, and these technological innovations are then opening both ethical and legal issues. So this law speaks in article 10 on the issue of banning gender selection. So it's said that it's forbidden to diagnose to determine the sex, except in cases where it's necessary, because it's suspected of some diseases that are conditioned by the fracture of the child. We see that the government has had some kind of intervention, as we have, on this point, because we believe that as it was written, it wasn't good enough. Also, this law, in a perhaps not good enough way, speaks of genetic research and the question of the further use of genetic samples that are intended to be taken from the patient in this study, there seems to me to be a need to define more precisely what is happening with this material and in which all possible and to which purpose this material is to be used. The questions of patients unable to decide, one full member is committed to it, we think there is room for some better definition, because it is about people who may not understand what decisions they need to give consent to and all the research and procedures they need to go through. There is a question of the right to inform the partner of the woman. Since it is said that, in certain cases, the right of father, second parent, can be denied the right to notification and we think that this should be considered whether the solutions of the bill are defined in the best possible way and in this short time, today and tomorrow, until this law is adopted, I hope that the Proposer and the Committee will consider all amendments and offer perhaps some small changes that are needed in this area. We've heard that we're working on a rare disease registry and that it's absolutely necessary, that we know that we have a disease register, a disease register. It's good what we heard today in the debate that for 13 families whose children didn't have to wait for the adoption of this law, that their material was sent to laboratories in the world and that now the results and analysis are waiting and that a diagnosis of the disease can be established. It is good that the state acted and did not wait for the adoption of this law and it is good that there is a Fund for the Treatment of Rare Diseases, only the question is raised, this Fund was founded by an initiative that followed the proposed law and we think it is necessary to regulate it in this law, since it only addresses the Health Insurance Fund, will the analysis of the cases that this law implies, will they be the cost of the Republic Fund or the cost of this newly established Fund, which was established at the end of last year? And the question arises, the way the doctor's responsibility is regulated? There's no responsibility for medical institutions. We think it is necessary to establish an objective responsibility for health institutions where treatment, diagnostics and treatment of patients, as well as matters of material damage, which is also defined through several members of this law, but we believe that further compliance with the applicable laws is needed, so that this law does not create any special situations or make some precedents that do not exist in our legislation. This law, since it deals with genetic research, is it a place where it should perhaps be more clearly defined term or what is called genetic engineering and a certain possibility of abuse? In those situations, we think it's something that opens up that topic. Perhaps this law is not the right place to elaborate on genetic engineering issues, but it is certainly something that, by adopting this law, must come very quickly on the agenda, especially if we develop this side of medicine in the future, then there will also be a need for further regulation. Finally, let me just say again and thank my colleague, Milisavljevic, for his tenacity, to thank all the MPs who have recognised that we should discuss one such law that is not political, which is not colored by the ideology of any party, to thank the parents of little Zoya, who have turned their heavy destiny into one positive energy, energy that should and can help in the future that similar things do not happen or that they happen in a small number and help as many families who face a major problem as possible. I believe that through the debate today and when we discuss amendments, we will correct some things or clarify some of the things that I have talked about today and that other colleagues have spoken about and that we will get one law that will bring some newspapers into our legislation and a law that will first and foremost give a chance to young people who, before this law, perhaps with the slowness of the state administration, could not and had no chance to fight for their right to live, as was the case for little Zoya, and that such cases in the future in our country will be less and less and less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20528	Thank you, colleague Giurisic. The proposer, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, called again. Here you go, Mr. Milisavic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20529	I'll be real quick. Dear fellow Djurisic, you mentioned that perhaps we should have included genetic research in this law. I want to tell you that this law deals with life right now. This law deals with diagnostics. This law deals with some things that are very necessary and very important to have in one place. Genetic research is very important, but it would further spread this topic. We wanted this law to be clear on diagnostics, later on for diagnostics, and later on for treatment. What you said about me and the 10th in law, there was a little correction that came from the Biomedicine Authority, given that I put an exemption agreement in the proposal of Article 10 of the Law, and the Department of Medicine said that the Department of Medicine was deciding. So, I've put in agreement to exempt it from the Biomedicine Administration, and the amendment is that the Medical Administration decides. So, instead of consent, she decides. So these are more than correct corrections, and that's why I accepted them, because they don't change the meaning of a member of the law, and I had an obligation and a desire to address you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20530	Thank you, fellow Milisavljevic. The word has an authorised representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Mrs Gordana Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20531	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill on the prevention and diagnosis of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases is a law on human rights. I hope I deserve your attention in the minutes I want to explain why this is a law on human rights. 225 years ago, the first time on the planet was written: “All the people born in freedom are equal. ” They're not equal to each other, we're all different, but that sentence is the first time a value system is established that we're equal before the law, equal to the others, equal to the state. That's why this is the law on human rights, in one segment concerning the rights that sick human beings have and other human beings who care about these diseases. Why is it important that this law, which is about human rights, is supported by all of us? Because we send down one significant message, which is that we understand the value system of human rights, that we understand how important it is for all people to be equal before the law, and for each other to be different. We will learn from this message in time to respect each other’s differences and to understand how much this increases the quality of life for both healthy and sick. Looking at how content and the idea of the law ahead of us is actually the law on human rights, I'm going to talk about the two levels that this law gives us. The first is this legislation regarding the content of the members of the law, the debate on what one of these members will do well, how it will improve the quality of life for someone and how it will improve the overall respect for human rights in our society. The second is an institutional and political plane that speaks of how this law is before us and why it is good to have it before us. Both of these levels are within the overall level of human rights, which we are committed to because we are a society that has decided to change itself by making all institutions standards, being part of the rule of law and being in the future and being part of what European culture of governance means, European culture of respect and application of human rights and membership in the EU. What about the contents and the members of this law? It deals with the prevention of genetically conditioned anomalies and genetic diseases. In a very short sentence that will look like an introduction to us for a very long story, I'll share mine with you where we get that chromosome chain that experts are studying, which makes us parents or human beings both happy and endless sorrow when we find or give birth to a human being that came from a chromosome chain that marks us as homogeneous. Evolution tells us about how it came to have pairs of chromosomes that make us who we are, and nothing more. Evolution will never say anything more than how it came. We are a modern civilization that lives at a time when there is scientific curiosity and when there are proven scientific theories that we look at this chain of chromosomes, at spirals of deoxyribonuxlein and nucleic acid, to look at alleles to calculate the human gene, to separate it, to reveal all its secrets. We humans answer what's in that human genome and it's the subject of this law. Our common message is that none of us decides with what genetic traits he will be born with, as none of us decides where he will be born, as none of us decides who his mother and father will be, whose genetic material will interfere in this magical process of creating a new human being. But once we're born, we decide how we live our lives. Once born, we decide how all people will treat society members who are born so different from us that it is visible. Once born, we decide whether we will have a value system of respect for human rights or we will be more prone to hypocrisy and we will look at people we will negatively define against ourselves as human beings who can be invisible. These human beings are in this law. Human beings who are because of social stereotypes, prejudice, free will, even those dedicated to the professions not to deal with people who genetically have qualities different from us, to be invisible to them. And that's why this law is the law on human rights. What will the individual members of this law do to increase the quality of life, not just those born with genetic predisposition or born with rare illness, and not just those who care about such human beings, but all of us? It will enable a commitment that every expert, a doctor, who comes into contact with a parent or directly with a human being who has a genetic disease, is obliged in a dignified way to provide him with help, is obliged to do whatever it takes to help him and to enable him to determine which allele, which article, what in his chromosome chain, for which he is not carrying any blame, is not good and whether there is anything that modern science can do to make it better. And not only that, this law will in a different position, a position worthy of respect for human rights, put on parents, because all of us who are parents know what it looks like when we wait for this magical moment to first see the face of what you've done together with someone and how many fears we ask absolutely pointless questions, a guy – whether he has all fingers, or how safe he is at the moment when we first look at the newborn face we know who he looks like. When you add to yourself all the fears you have with worries and fears that those who have no one to help and whose children are invisible just because they have a genetically conditioned or rare disease, then we understand how much this law on human rights is. It doesn't matter how many human beings in a society are in a state of danger from disrespect for their human rights. It's never the number that matters. If only one human being, then the whole society has to say – that one human being, when he is threatened by human rights, is threatened by all of us. We like to listen to stories about what happened to brave families, and we can develop empathy about the number of children who have been invisible, going through terrible days, classes, years of trying to treat them, but we can never really be in their shoes, except in a dialogue like this and in a shared commitment that other children, still unborn, never repeat the situation to be invisible, that their diagnosis is established, that no one dares to say, "This child is not worth treating," that no one dares to degrade a parent who comes for help, by diagnosis, who is convinced to know what his child is, but doesn't know what it is called and how it is being treated. It is certain that certain members of this bill and it is a system of respect for human rights applied, for which, fortunately, we are all here who have signed and convened, have submitted amendments and, of course, I am including the Government of the Republic of Serbia who entered into dialogue with all of us who wanted to make this one bill a change for the better. What is the second level, and I continue to explain why I consider this to be a law on human rights and that it is, in that sense, a deep political law? I fall into a group of those participants and witnesses of political processes that are deeply against sentences – this is not politics. It's all politics, ladies and gentlemen. It's a policy for children with rare diseases to be invisible. It's politics. Like politics is our common decision to keep these kids from being invisible anymore. The policy is that it is considered to be a slave of nature and that a slave can be killed and that he serves another human being who decides who is a slave and who is not. It's the same policy to end slavery. Politics is also to say that women do not go to school and that they do not have the right to vote and that they do not have the property and that they have the right to remain silent because they know where the woman is, as is the policy to say – the woman is a human being, by law as the man is. In that sense, this law is deep, in its core, in the idea of politics. How is this related to the institutional and political level in which this bill is adopted? This is not the first bill of law in the congregations, in which I had the privilege and privilege of participating and working. This is a law signed by a national MP, but it would not be on the agenda if 250 MPs did not share the same system of values. It wouldn't be on the agenda if the government that's the opposition's MP didn't share that system of values. It would not be in dialogue if we had no deep respect for the people who are before us, as someone who is in the Assembly for the voice to be someone else's, not our own, that we did not understand how important it is to respond to the demands of those who are fighting for the adoption and application of this law. This Assembly has a history of such cases, and this is the moment I think is necessary because of all of us, to remember that this is just one case in a series, which I personally hope will be more numerous, to remember that the female parliamentary network is, by skipping party tarabs and participating in the creation of a dialogue, has done a lot for the Istanbul Convention and for the amendments that we have endured because it is a policy. A number of MPs signed resolutions and declarations on our country's European integration on several occasions, from different political parties. A number of MPs signed the Auditor's Law. The members of the Constitutional and Legislative Committee, in the past meeting, signed a joint resolution on the unique legislative activity of the Republic of Serbia. I do not want to mention any name, and yet I think it would be good to mention the names of the MPs who have had initiatives and fought for dialogue and for the result of this dialogue that would be good for all because all these names are part of the collective memory of this institution, as all our names will forever remain recorded in the collective memory of the institution as a group of 250 people who have decided that by passing a law that sends a clear message about the commitment of the value of human rights, about the commitment of the rule of law, about the legal obligation, in front of the medical profession, before the institutions of the state, in front of the parts of the rule of law that a human being is sick of rare diseases or genetic diseases, that it has an obligation to treat the same treatment as any other being. Just because it's part of our collective work together, I think it might be a reason to think with no little pride of what we've been involved in supporting the law that's ahead of us, and about the prevention and diagnosis of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases. Finally, to try to explain why I consider this law to be a law on human rights. Human beings between us, and that's part of the tradition of our society, which are different, are very often the subject of social stigma. It wasn't that long ago when diseases that were of genetic origin or rare or mental illness or any diseases that might not have been related to the genetic cause, were born among us beings that we didn't want to look at, that we were keeping from looking, for which we had ugly names. Over the course of decades behind us, it began to be in an unacceptable position, that they were socially unacceptable. Why is it also a subject of human rights? Because there are doctors, there are medical workers who allow themselves to qualify as a sick human being. Not because he didn't learn at the medical school how to treat himself, but because the buildup of social stereotypes in them is stronger than the knowledge they were given and allow themselves to disrespect, not respect, not to explain to people, who are sick or bring their sick children, all that they owe. I'll give you an example of who we're now witnessing and a campaign against vaccination and damage that can be produced. Because some doctors are silent with popular rumors, or some doctors are not patient enough with people who have the right to fear. This law is an additional part of the overall mosaic that we also put before healthcare professionals very serious restrictions. There are amendments, I'll comment briefly, I've seen that so far there are 45 amendments, with many of them agree and I'll vote for them, there are amendments that put the dilemma of the doctor's responsibility and whether there should be doctor's responsibilities here. You should. As I'm going to say about anyone in public affairs – you need to be responsible, you have to put up with criticism, you can't say, "It's not my job! “ You should! If you can't take responsibility, as a doctor, I don't know, come to the assembly, so let's see why. Why would a doctor's responsibility be removed for all events concerning diagnosis? I have a big dilemma about that. When I say that it is the Law on Human Rights and that it is a deep political law, I hope that this bill will end one part of the enmity that we have toward different from ourselves. It's not enough to have empathy or pity with someone we estimate to suffer for some of their personal properties that you can't give up. It's not just pity and empathy. We must show genuine respect and respect. That's what we're learning, as we've learned in the last 50 years what's not to be, since the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted. The way this topic has reached us shows us a good course of process in our society. It is also proof that we understand that citizens, regardless of not being active in political parties, or not active in institutions, have their rights, have their own voice that must be heard and heard. We can disagree with them, but you can't look at them like they're gone. In one metaphor, all of us who are in some public affairs, it doesn't matter if we are in the Republic Health Fund, which at the request of many – no matter what I care, who said – it's not my job. Are we in the legalization committees, which say – it's not my job, are you in the PIO fund, which says – wait, it's not my job. It doesn't matter what sector of public affairs you have jurisdiction given to you by appointing, by choice, whatever. If you tell anyone - it's not my job, do what you do to children with rare diseases. You make people invisible. If even one message from this law that I would like to see in our society is that, by a strong, joint vote, through dialogue and agreement on amendments, we understand that children who are without their own guilt, without parental responsibility, born with a rare illness, born with a genetically conditioned anomaly, that these children are not invisible. They are different from other children, but they are equal to all other children, in their rights and in our obligation that their rights be met. Likewise, no one in this society should be invisible. They're so simple human rights. With the thanks of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Minister of Health and the hope that they will be aware that people who have some legislative request, some initiative, must not be invisible, with full solidarity with the events of the past families where children with rare diseases or genetically conditioned anomalies or any genetic disease, and with the support of fellow MP Dusan Milisavljevic, I thank all of us and all of you in advance for showing in the voting day that we have learned one of the most difficult lessons that human societies are learning, which is that all people are equal to the law. Not amongst themselves, but equal in front of the law. That's my message, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20532	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20533	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS MPs in this House express how we had the opportunity to hear it, the great satisfaction that health policy had entered the assembly benches. Obviously, when that topic comes to the agenda, somewhere we're not just getting serious and solidarity, but we're thinking about something that's deeply human. And this tragedy, this disease, this subject can actually be part of my destiny, the fate of someone who is very close to me, let's draw attention to each other on how best to solve this issue. Here are actually three segments, professional, ethical and formal-legal. Through our past, we have witnessed the fact that scientific research achievements, clinical practice, actually change norms, even legal norms. Ancient peoples, ancient Greeks considered it a high moral act, that if a blue baby was born of a very high height, to be tortured as little as possible, to throw, at least 2,000 meters was recommended, and it was thought that only those doing so were doing well. Of course today is a mistake of the profession, if at birth you do not recognize the tetralogy of faloto, one serious illness, congenital heart disease, because when surgery is done, such a child lives absolutely like all of us. If done immediately after birth. We're taking part today right now in an event that associated me with a story I told. It is precisely thanks to scientific achievements, thanks to clinical practice, thanks to the fate of individuals, couples planning offspring, and the satisfaction of parental drive is one of the strongest impulses, thanks to the need for the family to be happy or knows how to alleviate the accident, thanks to the fact that the text of this law is just going towards each of us, towards each of our citizens. The SPS MPs will, of course, be happy to vote in favour of this law. I would also like to express, on behalf of the group, the satisfaction of the government with great seriousness to analyse the text of the promoter, Dr Milisavljevic. Of course, what the parents of Zoya have given the initiative to work together on this and to send a message that we are not accidentally in these benches, including experts, doctors who have a lot in this House, surely have one sense of satisfaction when we actually see that we are repairing legislation that will work on good information on genetic diseases about genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases. Because, you know, rare diseases, not just because we haven't been paying attention to them this way so far, but because it's the world's attitude towards rare diseases, fall into other diseases. They're also called orphan disease by experts, they're called neglected disease. In America, the standard for the disease is one person on 200,000 Americans. In Japan, one at 50,000. Here we have, in accordance with the Commission's position on public health, the European Commission for Public Health, on several occasions we have heard, in 10,000 no more than five patients suffer from one disease. What's the fact? If there were many such diseases, there are five to seven thousand of them according to some estimates. That only in Serbia near half a million people, or most often children, suffer from this disease and that among them is the highest frequency of 80% of genetic, therefore, hereditary diseases. We heard there were others. How does the law approach this problem? In those general provisions, above all, very well defines certain concepts of which some are quite close to us, patient, diagnostics, medical measures, etc. But some who, when reading someone who is interested in this law and can have an average degree of education, can see that, in fact, prenatal, postnatal diagnostics, predictive diagnostics, targeted diagnostics, and these are the topics of these laws, actually cover all those areas, particularly good information on these genetic and rare diseases, which is very important. The law, in fact, has one stimulating character for experts as well as for the general public who needs to see himself. Well, we all want that offspring, so who wants offspring and certain risks, who's going to make one or the other decision? This law of respected colleagues and colleagues, as if it was a little inspired by the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, because we will agree that some diseases in our practice are still the diseases of the second order. Some diseases, including neurodegenerative diseases, are mentioned dementia, mental illness, various diseases that are accompanied by disability, and here are rare diseases, are often invisible. We often fear that the most massive cardiovascular disease can be solved in the best way, we don't somehow call this invisible to our eyesight, focus, and somewhere it's even behind us. This law obliges us to think of it, so whether we sit here in a parliamentary bench and answer for the control activities that are on us, how this law will apply, and not just today, how we will bring it. This law obliges experts to give enough information to the general population, to the citizens, about it. We will need not only to make a register for public health institutions in Serbia, which stems from this law, and to see how much of this serious health and social problem is with us, but to see what is going to happen at different levels. The reference facilities will of course exist. The Minister shall decide at which reference institutions at which point certain more complex analyses will be carried out, certain genetic analyses, enzyme analyses and where the equipment necessary for all of this will be obtained. You know, I also took part in the debate on the board today and said that the most expensive thing for our country is the wrong diagnostics. We are unfortunately witnesses to the fact that because of diagnostic delusions, we have had experience that some children are for no reason operated, but have actually suffered from rare diseases. We will have to anticipate a sufficient number of experts in the human resources plan of professional training. So far, we haven't considered it enough, including the period when I was Minister of Health, you're always limited by finance. During this period, enough understanding has been shown for the need for rare diseases and all those diseases that are second - row diseases to be visible. There was a need to sort of sublegal acts somewhere, to solve questions with acts, but on the other hand, when we pass one law, which is now the formal-legal aspect, we have to make sure that we don't overestimate the need, so that the law regulates something and it's regulated by other laws. I just want to remind all of us that many segments that concern people with rare diseases, persons who have various genetic anomalies or are genetically caused diseases, that many of the issues that concern them, are in fact correct in our two laws so far, the Law on Health Protection and Health Insurance, that many of the issues concerning these diseases are diagnostics, prevention, therapy, wherever possible, and unfortunately, in 10 to 15%, adequate therapy is possible, which is also devastating, but the law insists that a better quality of life for those persons is possible and that is very important. Therefore, both the Health Protection Act and the Social Insurance Act and the Biomedically assisted Insemination Act, and the Transplantation Act and the Law on Discrimination and Family Law and Criminal Code. It's all laws of course about records where there are elements and that's why we don't have to repeat ourselves. It's a potential criminal responsibility, for example, by an expert. I am of the opinion that the Criminal Code is quite sufficient and that it is not necessary to isolate procedures which will specifically refer to experts of this profile. Why, if we have them and it seems to me that in the amendments it is suggested whether in the amendments of the government or one of my colleagues, I don't know because I've had a chance to review the amendments now. So criminal responsibility is resolved by the Criminal Code. We can look somewhere formal-legal aspects from the aspect of need and rationality, but that is why professional procedures, ethics, and ethics, among other things, stand in the law to monitor ethical committees that have institutions in which all these medical services that are subject to the law will be done. In these ethical committees will sit more than competent persons, as in expert teams that may be called multidisciplinary committees or councils, or as they will already be called since there have been different proposals in the amendments, as we adopt, the sitting most competent people who will say in the six months we have failed to make a diagnostic and we are unable to do so in our country, or we are, we direct a child from Kursumli to Belgrade at the Clinical Centre and there everything will be done. If you can't do this, the proposal will send this commission to a small patient or sample yourself or a small patient to send or sample to some reference laboratory outside our country and it's not expensive. It's more expensive for parents to lie in the hospital for months, to have stress, to be left out for information about what their child is suffering from, to be incomparably greater and economic consequences, not to talk about ethical, human, etc. and beyond that, of course, the relevant instance of the Republic Health Insurance Fund will make a decision in accordance with the acts they already have that child should go abroad. The agreement on the funds to be defined will be given by the minister. It's a pretty good circle of money control that we also have to take care of. In any case, in order to perhaps take part in the debate with the amendment, I would like to really thank everyone who has shown a good understanding of the very sensitive subject of a rare disease once again. This is a law that we'll be proud of and when we don't sit in these benches and, of course, we do it on behalf of our fellow Socialists and we share the idea that equality is in everything, including the possibility that all different people, different diseases, are being treated with the same chance, one of the civilizational flows that we have to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20534	The word has an authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party MP group, Dr Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20535	Thank you. Dear President, dear colleagues, respected brave parents, I would just like to remind you that the world's day is dedicated to rare diseases on February 28th. We should not forget about that day and we should mark it anyway, and today there is a very important law for all our citizens, for the little ones, but also for those adults who suffer from rare diseases. As I was preparing for this discussion, I was under the impression that something was missing after all. What is missing, I received a response today, and I was very pleased, and this is a proposal from the Ministry of Health to allow, in addition to the possibility of diagnostics, legal regulations and to ensure treatment at the reference centres, if there are therapeutic procedures for certain diseases. It's something that's very important and that gives quality and fullness to this law. As far as rare diseases are concerned, these are very specific diseases and we want to influence this law to raise awareness of the public with the problems faced by those who live with the diagnosis of a rare disease, but also with even greater problems of those who do not know essentially what they are suffering from. With the use of health and social protection and real support, we enable these people to live a quality and meaningful life. Progress in researching rare diseases can be achieved through the co-operation of teams of researchers from several countries, whose efforts would help better understand rare diseases and find adequate therapy. To address a very serious problem, the International consortium for the Research of Rare Diseases has been established and it has also initiated joint funding for research into rare diseases from several European Union countries. That we are on the right track and we are not late, the EU's national plans have also shown, when rare diseases are at stake at the end of 2013. What we can say about rare diseases is that we classify it as less than five patients in 10,000. When you say that, it doesn't seem like a lot of patients. However, there are many rare diseases, we heard, between six and eight thousand and that about 450,000 people in the Serbian state suffer from a rare disease. What's very characteristic, rare diseases hit children at 75%. What's very tragic is that 30% of such children die at the age of five. The identified genetic origin in rare diseases is 80%. The rest are caused by infection, allergy, environmental factor influence, or degenerative or proliferative. Specific diagnostics are available for only one third of rare diseases. If therapy exists, it's mostly very expensive and very difficult to get medication. These medicines are called “an orphan medicine. ” The international classification of diseases still does not adequately code and classification of rare diseases, and the World Health Organization has proposed a revision and a comprehensive classification of rare diseases and is expected to be applied by the end of 2015. So we're not late. Hospital records for rare diseases are something we need. Also, there are national registers along with hospital records to finally know how many of these diseases we have in our country. The disease can be rare in one region for another region does not have to be. Also, there are variations of rare diseases within some common diseases, and the precise analysis depends on whether a certain set of symptoms will be identified as a special disease and that is what is important and I appeal to my fellow doctors in primary health care. What we learned in college is that 50% of the diagnosis is a good history, it's to listen to your patient, not to see the patient in part, but to see the patient as one whole personality with all of its specificities. If one organ disease occurs, it does not necessarily mean that there is no change in the other body, and the more accurate the analysis, so much more notice the individual variants of the disease and the greater the possibility of timely diagnosis and timely response. What's very important about rare diseases in most people is the cause unknown. They are difficult, chronic, progressive, in some signs they are seen immediately at birth and early childhood, and in some, which is about 50% only in adulthood. In these patients, it is very difficult to establish a diagnosis that it is actually genetic disease, because they occur at the age of life when, in some ways, it is not typical to show up and stay unrecognized most often. In addition to rare diseases, he also suffers from lack of medical and scientific knowledge. For most rare diseases, there is no cure, but adequate treatment or medical care can improve the quality and length of life. What is very important is the field of research and social solidarity. A search for good diagnostics, reliable information, guidance towards qualified professionals, and there must be a doctoral vanity to forget. It's no shame to ask a colleague -- it looks like that problem to me, let's see together to solve it. Here, today we are gathered here and agreed that we can solve and that this law enters the procedure and be adopted. That goes for all my fellow doctors. It's no shame to ask if anything's forgotten, so it's normal to forget. What presents a specific problem and occurs when it comes to quality health care and overall social and medical support, the fixed link between hospitals and general practice as well as professional and social integration and the independence of the sick. Patients with rare diseases are also psychological, social, economic and culturally more sensitive. That's what they're called. “vulnerable” categories of population, and due to inadequate shortages of scientific and medical knowledge, many patients have not been diagnosed and their disease remains unrecognized. That's our biggest problem. So these are the invisible patients and they have exactly the most problems in getting proper help. For all rare diseases and sciences, there are some answers, but thousands of rare diseases today can be diagnosed thanks to biological tests. The knowledge of the nature of these diseases has been enhanced thanks to the making of a register for some of these diseases. The association of researchers, the exchange of results thanks to EU regulations and national regulations is being achieved and new perspectives are opening up. As for the other part, which is genetic diseases and the slightest mutation on any of the genes can result in some genetic disease. The majority of about 7,000 genetic diseases have a common characteristic. It's hard to detect, the symptoms are unusual, the association is more of a problem. Individually rare, but all cups are common and therefore the patient needs to be examined pedanically. The consequences of late diagnosis are multiple, stress for the family, or stress for the child and start rehabilitation, i.e. treatment and treatment. Prenatal diagnostics play a very significant role in this system, but what we need to know is that ultrasound prenatal in 65% of cases we can detect congenital anomaly. So 35% of us remain uncovered. Amniocentesis or double test, which allows us to detect Down syndrome, Edward and Patau syndrome, the rest remain unrecognized. What's very important, genetic diseases can be very insidious. All healthy without a positive family history have a risk of 4.2% of a child being born with major congenital anomalies and 2% with mental retardation. In addition to the genetic cause, there may be burden-related effects, i.e. due to some medications, viruses, then chemicals, and environmental pollution. What is very important and significant, and it is screening on innate severe metabolism disorders and they can be successfully treated because there is therapy. In these diseases early recognition is very important for the success of treatment. In the end, I'd like to say, this is a very serious problem. Today we agreed to solve it together all together. Once again, I thank the brave parents for their tenacity, perseverance. I thank my colleague Milosavljevic for his consistency and thank all MPs who will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20536	Thank you. The word is proposed by Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20537	I just want to thank my colleague. Just a little bit to make it right. I'm not Milosavljevic. God forbid he connects me to some Milosavljevic who was in the health sector. Excuse me, Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20538	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (No) We are moving on to the list of registered and the first on the list is MP Algica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20539	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, distinguished brave Bojana and Danilo Mirovljevic, dear Proposor Milisavljevic, colleagues and colleagues, I may be able to address this briefly, because I am very limited in time, I may say, in some harsher words, inappropriately what we are discussing today, but in the absence of some and not finding some others, I think we are the only ones who do not remain. You see, when I'm talking today about some invisible categories of people, invisible children, invisible individuals, invisible authorities, etc., then it is necessary to make a clear statement of the truth, no matter how difficult it is to say it, and no matter how painful and difficult it is to listen to that same truth. In this context, MPs, remember, 157 of the people's messengers were invisible, and by the logic of things invisible they see no invisible. But I'll go back to the beginning, to what I wanted to say. When our esteemed colleague proposed this law, Dusan Milisavljevic, with whom I am very happy to point out, often the same thinker, suggested that a bill like this be found on the agenda, known as the so-called so-called Law. Zoin Law, the law we're discussing today, and we're going to discuss and in particular completely ignoring the reasons for humanity that represent a synonym for a law like this. Of course, most MPs kept their mouths shut. You see, that silence, everything you want, I don't think today can be justified in any way. About this so-called a sort of ratio that very often rules here, wrote and continues to be written by many media. The citizens are also familiar with that. The citizens also said that, they were making their comments, it was already mentioned, in the relevant social networks, where among other things a list of MPs who had not seen and recognized this idea and the essence of this law, not its form and not its norm, in time. Let's be honest, every law can be fixed when there's a desire for such a thing. We didn't introduce amendments this morning. The amendments exist as an institute, are regulated by the Rules of Procedure, are available to every MP, and that when a member of the People's Parliament is a legislator of the law, these more than any honor, should do so and do so both before and Government on such a single bill, however much he can be the worst in the world, he can react in time and correct everything that is wrong, so that the justification for why we haven't adopted this before but today we adopt it, there is no justification, and I think on that point, I'll be quite explicit here. I'm sorry we're always handling some kind of negative selection principle. Unfortunately, here first, something must always happen in our society, such as this law, which is the consequence of what is happening in our society, which is precisely the death of Zoya, but also other children who have suffered from rare diseases, so that they will react to me with some subsequent consciousness and later intelligence. I don't think it's commendable, nor can it be something to praise. Of course, I never, ever speak for myself in front of the DHSS, I didn't consider which parliamentary group came from, and in the future, I will support every bill that's good, because a good proposal is a good proposal, a good intention is a good intention, and I don't think there's any room for discussion here. The essence of this law is what the proposer himself has already said, and that is the right to diagnosis, and I would say – accurate, timely, valid, timely. Those who suffer from rare diseases, and above all children, because they are a category of persons who must primarily be protected, at least that's how all civilized societies do, need the support of absolutely all of us, when I say to us, not just the MPs, but I mean the state, I think primarily of society, and the way we treat those same children is actually our reflection. Unfortunately, in the overall percentage of people suffering from rare and other genetic diseases, often incurable, the highest percentage is children. Surely this law is a fact that it will not solve many problems. However, this law is not proposed to address all problems that exist in Serbian health, but it is therefore proposed to contribute to the final and necessary introduction, or register for rare diseases, as it states. The very approach this proposal has is to connect genetics, connect gynecology and pediatrics which, on the issues of diagnostics, must not only be directed at each other, but simply their continuous network must be needed. You know, time is of all the most precious resources. It is spent on debauchery when children who fall from rare diseases cannot be diagnosed and then we come up with this causal relationship – without a diagnosis, right to treatment, despite all wishes for the availability and usefulness of such a right, remains in the domain of virtual. Of course, without a diagnosis, there is not everything else that stems from that primary right, but from the said right of treatment. It is therefore fully justified to state that the aim of this law is, in fact, to bring the length of this process down to the shortest possible extent, which would actually increase the effectiveness of the treatment. We all know the diagnosis precedes treatment. Namely, she owes the patient. She's right, since I'm not a doctor, something like the previous question. Simply, it itself represents something like a previous issue that must be resolved in order to ensure that the right to treatment is achieved and made available. In a legal sense, this law completes what is in the reasons for its adoption and states that it completes the provisions of other laws in the field of health whose provisions have proved insufficient and still show insufficient when we talk about prevention and when we talk about the diagnostics of genetic diseases and genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases. In the spirit of how I began this address, and on the subject of today's proposed law, I will end it with the words that in the voting day, we should absolutely all support this law. We should've supported him even when he was proposed to put himself on the agenda. Remember, it's been a long time since then and let humanity be ahead of us. Let's put politics on the other side, let's leave it for some other draft laws, where politics simply has places, and given only one thought, that every thought we have about whether today or tomorrow we put something on the agenda, when it comes to this subject, means one life less for a child who suffers from a rare disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20540	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20541	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Parents of Little Zoya, we have before us a law that is apparently and written with a lot of pain and perseverance, but also a desire to help sick children. I think that today we are showing maturity as a parliament and as a society in general that this proposed law will try to remove most of the problems, especially with regard to the diagnostics of children with rare diseases, but will also improve the services of genetic and reproductive health. I think this law is a good example of solidarity among all of us. As my esteemed colleague Batic said, there is no excuse for us MPs who, when the law by counterpart Milisavljevic, who proposed it, was in the assembly procedure and when many of us, including myself, did not vote for this law at the time. On this occasion, I must suggest that there must be collegiation and assembly fair play when it comes to human laws like this. Col. Milisavljevic legitimately and legally fulfilled the procedure by putting this law in the assembly procedure, but I still felt that each of us MPs, first of all the parliamentary groups, should have been of you as a proposing person to know, because I am not even a member of the Health Committee. I will give just one example of this solidarity that we have shown as MPs. In the last term, we were able to change the Criminal Law, so that the sexual delinquent in Serbia no longer goes out of date. The NGO Incest Trauma Center has been trying for 20 years to push this thing through. None of us asked for the culprit in all this. Proposers and those who haven't changed that law could have found a thousand excuses. In the end, I think that we all made a certain contribution to changing what we voted for to change the Criminal Law and that we are today another country in Europe, after the UK, which has brought that change so that the sexual delinquent doesn't go out of date. So if we're looking for the culprit, we'll find him, but I don't think we should do it like we can't justify all of us who, on the day you proposed that law, didn't vote for him. It is important that the injustice is corrected and that we, like you today at the college, Mr. Milisavljevic, have said that today we are the first country in the Balkans to adopt this law and that is in any case good. It's no problem to make a mistake and sometimes admit a mistake for a better one. I am glad that today we are all discussing in the spirit of humanity and that we support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20542	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20543	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague Filipovski, I want to tell you, I have listened carefully to your presentations and I want to say, this public knows, in essence, I pray for Zoya's law several times and he has been in an attempt to come on the agenda. Last time the public noticed it, she reacted. I prayed every time. I'll tell you there's a tape. I have my YouTube channel on which you can check all my speeches. I am not ashamed of my speech, nor of my actions, nor of my actions. In May 22nd, I officially shared Zoya's law at a session here with all the heads of Parliament, and at that moment I prayed that MPs and MPs' groups would plead in the slowest time. I don't think it was an evil intention to put someone in any kind of trouble. As a MP, I absolutely have the right to propose law. This law was proposed in the last term. Here, look, type in the "Youtube" speech from the 22nd, and you can also make a stenographic note from May 22nd, when I gave the bill to all the heads of Parliament. Let's not go back to the past, what's happened. It is important that we have reached one agreement for a good law and that after today, all our children who are suffering from rare diseases and children who are currently healthy, but at some point may become ill, do not depend more on your humanity or my or my minister or anyone else's, but have the support of the state. It's something that's very important. It is one success of this call to parliament, that we have adopted a civil law, which is good and that this law will guarantee those young people and families, who have so far not had the support of the state. They were invisible, as the Mirovljevic family led Zoja as a cat sword in their teeth, led her from one institution to another, hit the wall of the impenetrable Republic Fund, which simply had no single sentence, one password and a rare disease. They just say - we don't see you, you have to go home. It's very difficult and very harsh. A lot of this administration has alienated itself from ordinary pulses and ordinary lives of citizens. It is up to us, today, that a beautiful opportunity for us to unite and that little Zoya united us today to pass this law. I want us to look into the future and how we're going to further improve the health system, not go back to the past, what who said and what happened. What's done is done, let's go forward together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20544	The word is by MP Branko Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20545	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, respected parents, today we are discussing the proposal for a law on the prevention and diagnosis of genetic diseases of genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases. Three basic reasons for the adoption of this law, which should then be incorporated into the reform chain of the health system of the Republic of Serbia's health system. What are three reasons? Human, medical and legal. The human reason tells us that the wider social community should pay attention to this rare population of patients and establish such a relationship that will respect their personality, dignity and social status. Medical reasons or medical reasons suggest a vulnerabilities, a rare patient population, with the most severe disease and the most common disease that cannot be treated. The highest percentage of this rare population, unfortunately, falls on the children's population. This law, as it has multiple times since my predecessors were apostrophe, will speed up the completion of the register of rare diseases. Also, this law gives us what measures of the genetic health system we need to define by this law and genetic health counselling or treatment is the only medical specialty that treats this population of patients at the level of diagnostics, prenatal or postnatal. The law practically allows us and gives us the instrumentation to shorten in any way the diagnosis. Diagnosis and what it means for this population of patients and their parents, because by getting a diagnosis we also know how to treat, while at the same time solving some practical problems related for example. for wheelchairs or enteral diet. At the same time, we increase the effectiveness of treatment. Here, because of the general public, we need to tell what they are like right now in Europe and in the world the results of the gene treatment of patients with rare diseases. The basic prerequisite for the gene treatment of this type of patient is mastering the methodology of the separation of certain genes and then their injection into the genome or gene material of the same or other organism. Practically, it all began back in 1980, when a human gene was singled out for the treatment of type one diabetes mellitus and then that gene injected into the genome or gene material of the bacteria. This way we get insulin for the treatment of diabetes mellitus grads one and this way of producing insulin is practically carried out until today. The beginning of gene treatment for patients with rare diseases is related to a date -- 24 September 1990, in a small, then four-year-old girl, who suffered from combined severe immunodeficiency. Because of the layman's public, it should be said that it is one hereditary disease, where practically a young organism cannot fight against virus or bacterial infection. The reason for the occurrence of this rare genetic disease is the lack of a single enzyme gene called amylase adenosine de aminase. In this girl, the beginning of this gene treatment consisted of taking white blood cells, i.e. white cells from her peripheral blood, and then, in that culture of white blood cells, this non-existent gene was injected and then, this leukocyte culture was returned to the peripheral circulation of the girl. Unfortunately, the gene therapy of rare diseases and then 25 years ago, but I have to apostrophe here for the sake of the Serbian public, and today, there is no efficiency that we expected when this treatment started. What's this about? The white blood cells that got that missing gene can live for several months. Then, once again, transfusions of these white blood cells should be given and, unfortunately, all of these should be carried out until the fatal end. Of course, these results and then 25 years ago and today don't need to discourage us, so we're going to support all of those clinical studies that in some, hopefully, closer, futures will bring and give results of effective treatment. The legal reasons for the adoption of this law are that we do not, in our legal framework, have a law that practically encourages the treatment of this type of patient. This law that we all need to pass together will be in positive correlation with the laws of all, practically, European countries and with the European Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, which our country signed in 2010, and our signature implies harmonising this law with the other laws in our mile. Also, this law is in positive correlation with the European Charter of Patients' Rights, where we should note at the same time that our Law on Patients' Rights does not currently have a segment that would give a legal basis for what we all talk about today. Of course, it would be a real pleasure for the SDPS parliamentary group to vote in favour in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20546	The word is proposed by Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20547	Dear Chairman, dear colleague, I would like to thank you for your presentation, and I would like to supplement your exposure, that these children who have been suffering from rare diseases so far, to this day, have not literally had the rights, not only for diagnosis and not only for treatment, but also for certain things that some other children who suffer from certain other diseases had. So they had no right to medication, no right to diapers, no right to wheelchairs, no right to enter food. I will take the opportunity, given that the Mirovljevic family knows, and that Bojana President of the Association of Parents of Children has suffered from rare diseases, lives in Novi Sad, that several times when I visited Novi Sad and when I visited their organization to see that even after the death of my Zoya, he was in contact with parents and parents who lost their children. There's a lot of these kids we haven't mentioned today, literally collecting the remains of their diapers, drugs and entertainment, and sharing them with other children. It's something that gave me the extra strength to fight one cruel and alienated administration, because it's unacceptable for you to pray in the 21st century, to beg for your child to get an internal food, to get diapers, to get a wheelchair. It's something that seemed to me like we were in the Middle Ages. That's why I gave extra strength to them, they gave them to me, but those examples when I saw that parents who lost a child were in contact with other people who survived the tragedy and that their medications that remained from the treatment of their children give to other children who still have a chance to stay alive. It's something that's got me so upset, and this law of Zoya regulates it. So it doesn't mean that these kids don't have parenteral food anymore, that they don't have diapers, that they don't have wheelchairs. It means they don't have the legal regulations to get it. Zoya's law will. Zoya didn't have that support, but Zoya's law allows our little ones to have that support. Thank you for a really nice and decent presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20548	The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20549	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Vice-President, honourable fellow Members of the People, the respected parents of Little Zoja, on behalf of this bill submitted by our distinguished fellow MP Dr Dusan Milisavljevic, I would like to first on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group to express my satisfaction with the fact that we have managed to achieve the full unity of all parliamentary groups around one legislative proposal. I'm not going to deal with the provisions of the bill itself, because the health experts have explained enough. I believe that the law in general has in one correct way regulated the way in this very sensitive area of health and health care. I would just like to draw attention to a bigger problem, which, by the logic of things, comes after the matter being treated by this bill, or diagnosis, that a person has one of these diseases or anomalies, which is a problem with further treatment. In fact, I don't think there's any citizen who hasn't participated in any of the humanitarian actions related to these cases, through which we are from media or personal contact, and we people who haven't been able to understand so far that the treatment of these types of illnesses is extremely expensive, that it doesn't rarely require methods of diagnostics and treatment outside the country, and that it's basically looking for other people's care and help, which adds additionally high costs. The government's recent establishment of the National Fund for the Treatment of Rare Diseases is a good move to help treat these diseases. The establishment of this fund has precisely arranged a stable source of funding and means of use, in order to get those who really need it most in connection with the funds in the mood. Therefore, this bill will not be fully implemented until all those who have these diagnosises are adequately medically cared for. In this sense, this bill represents a quality improvement in current medical and diagnostics, which is the basis of good and successful treatment, so PUPS MPs will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20550	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20551	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected parents of small Zoe, respected citizens, today we are talking about the law on the prevention and diagnosis of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases, which he also proposed in the assembly procedure for another July of the year, directed by a respected colleague, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. First of all, I want to congratulate him on his endurance, his tenacity, his consistency. I'm glad this law is on the agenda today. Well done. A lot of colleagues have talked about the law, the problem it solves. I'm glad we all agree, no matter how much anyone looks at the solutions that are in this law. The problem he is dealing with should be addressed, it should be put into the legal framework, and all with the aim of making patients who cannot be diagnosed in the Republic of Serbia, who are impossible to set up in our health institutions, get a chance and a time limit for which this material, any of which is biological material or they themselves are directed to review, diagnose and therapy in institutions in Europe and the world that can provide such a service. I would not talk about the law itself, I agree absolutely, and I support as much as the rest of my parliamentary group that we will support this law in the voting day. What we saw as a possible flaw in the law itself and the members of the law we gave through the amendments. I would ask all fellow Members of Parliament to study all amendments very carefully, whether by MPs or by the Ministry of Health. The Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it is very important that this law, after voting in this assembly hall, be as good as possible, should cover absolutely as complete and as perfect a solution as possible to all the problems put into the framework of this law that should be answered, so that people who wait with impatience to adopt this law can also get the possibility of solving their problems without any unknowns in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20552	The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20553	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, brave parents of little Zoya, I'll start with something I don't do, I hope that Bojana won't mind, I'll tell her as I told her a little more than two years ago. It was, it seemed to me in December or November 2012, that she contacted me as a New Sad MP through common friends, and she brought me a series of problems that they were facing, and I think they were rightly the parents of those children when they called themselves invisible on social networks, because these problems were really for us who have no direct contact were absolutely unknown, absolutely invisible, and it was something that we couldn't even imagine that someone living in this country in 2012, 2013 or 2014, that they were things that someone could ever face and that they were humiliations through which someone who is a citizen of this country, who is in Europe, could ever go through and be confronted with them just because he has a child who is sick and who for some reason doesn't fit in the rigid administration and bureaucracy, who deals with such things. I left that first conversation with two very strong impressions. The first impression was something that I shared afterwards with everyone I talked to in order to gain support for what we agreed to do, which is that it was an amazing woman, who simply impressed me so much with all her strength by wanting to help with one sentence that she kept repeating -- but that's not just for Zoja, it's for other children. Even if she fought only and only for her child, and then and now she shows that that's not the case, she would deserve any admiration. When she talked about how she didn't want to accept the diagnosis she had just made, when she talked about how she connected with other kids' parents, like they went to London, how they financed the training of a doctor who was traveling so she could work with other kids, when she talked about how parents who suspected their child was suffering from Batten's disease started to come to them, how she made a network, how she was trying to help everyone. It's all the things that deserve all the respect and all the admiration. Secondly, the impression I made from that meeting, which I told her at the time, is that I was certainly not going to be able to do much, but that I was convinced that there wouldn't be a lot of problems about this, that I should simply talk to the President of the Assembly, at the time it was Nebojsa Stefanovic, that I should talk to perhaps the heads of the parliamentary groups and that we would find ways to find the problem, but also the problem of the care she had objectively, that it would be very soon to be resolved. First surprise and first disappointment ever when we saw that just as easily it wouldn't work. When we first encountered an obstacle, she associated with some MPs who might have been able to help. They tried and it didn't go through, and then this endless series of meetings began, which unfortunately follows anyone who's trying to make such a big change, and this change today is huge, which we're going to vote on today. Later, counterpart Dusan Milisavljevic, as at the time the chairman of the Health Committee, took over the case and then began his fight, and the continuation of the struggle of all people from the New Sad's "Life" association to make something happen. When he submitted this bill for the second time in May this year when he met the heads of the parliamentary group with him, we talked to each other again thinking, this is it, it will now be and there's no reason not to be, there's no reason why it doesn't happen and when the first time there was a vote on putting on the agenda of this law, when we saw that for - vote us 22, we think about the first moment or even less of it, we were mildly shocked. At the same session, I am also in agreement with another group of parents who again have different problems, have proposed amendments to the Criminal Code that would allow that famous baby theft to be a criminal act that does not go out of date. Both of our bill's proposals were rejected at that session. The MPs simply didn't come to terms with it, they didn't vote for it, they didn't vote against it. This was then justified by some strange reasons, but the worst part was that most MPs did not feel the need to even say why they would not vote for such a thing. Of course there's no excuse that there's no funding for it can be valid. These are the things you need to find the funds for. These are all things that don't cost much first, and the second is really a matter of human rights. It's not some sort of arbitrary assessment or decision, it's a matter of human rights. We've had four or five more times, I'm not sure how many times, this bill we have now, put before the MPs. Every time we wondered why he didn't come to the agenda. These amendments submitted today by the government could have been submitted at that time. Everything we do today, we could have done a year and a year and a half ago. However, I want to take this opportunity to ask you for something else now. Mr. Dusan Milisavljevic, whom we all thank together today and we rightly thank him, submitted another bill to the assembly procedure. It's about the bill he filed with the Nudor association. It's an association of children's parents with cancer, which suggests that your parents are entitled to paid sick leave all the time during therapy, all the time during the treatment of a child with cancer, not the way it is now. Please don't let that proposal be rejected five or six times again, so that when someone agrees, we can discuss it. We're all serious people here who know why they're here, who make sure they represent citizens and that our only job is to work in the interest of these citizens. Please don't let that bill pass as well as this Zoya law. We have in our language a few sayings and a saying that apply to this. One is better than never. The other is – it's never too late, and now I've talked to Mrs. Komic, there's a Chinese proverb that reads – it's always later than you think. So I invite you to vote for this together, and the sooner we adopt other proposed laws because it's our only job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20554	The proposaler of the law is Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20555	Thank you so much for the chairmanship. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have prayed repeatedly for Zoya's law and I would continue to pray for that law because, you saw for yourself, when you read that law that he is good and that with amendments he is still improved. So in the interest of our children, it's really one good thing. I have stood up now to say that I would like the MPs in Serbia to be representatives of the citizens of Serbia right now and to account for the citizens of Serbia, not for the heads of the parliamentary groups or their parties. What my colleague announced and said will be the subject of some of the next sessions. I did propose that law, and so did Zoya's law, and he was rejected. When Mrs. Filipovski tells me I haven't met the MPs, here's a colleague of mine who says I meet every time I talk. Now I've met the minister, so we've now entered into a realisation and I suppose it would be good will by the ministry to regulate that bill in the spring session of the National Assembly. It's about children who have cancer and their parents, to allow them to be sick as long as the treatment process of children who have leukemia or cancer and these children, I can say as a doctor, that from 300 to 350 on an annual level that suffers from these severe malignancies and the state can find ways to spare their parents and that they can be absent from work for a longer period than three months. It's one law that will certainly be, but today is the subject of Zoya's law and to slowly continue the story about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20556	The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20557	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected parents of little Zoya, the SPS parliamentary group supports the adoption of a bill on the prevention and diagnostics of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases, known in public as Zoya's Law. The basic constitutional and human right is to know what you are suffering from, and timely diagnosis of the disease also allows adequate treatment. With children suffering from rare diseases, it often happens that doctors for months and sometimes years cannot determine what disease it is. The objective of Zoya's law is to minimise the length of this process, which would significantly increase the effectiveness of treatment, because it is not uncommon for a diagnosis to arrive when it is too late for a child. This law should enable a child to be entitled to life and treatment and the right of parents to hope for the cure of his child. Without diagnosis, children and adults cannot be treated without adequate therapy, patients and their families go through agony. The application of this law will allow the treatment of patients, especially children, abroad on the cost of Serbia's Health Insurance Fund, if in Serbia for a certain period, i.e. within six months, doctors do not determine the diagnosis. Doctors would be obliged to send a tissue and blood sample to a laboratory abroad at least three reference health centres in the world that they think can determine the diagnosis and burden on the means of compulsory health insurance. The law also prescribes criminal measures for all those who do not act in a prescribed manner. Our health system faces a large number of objective problems. The greatest is certainly a lack of money, but independent of objective problems, it is difficult to accept and inadmissible that our children die because their disease falls into rare diseases and that the disease cannot be diagnosed in due time. However, the problem of financing rare diseases is not just ours. It is expressed everywhere in the world, given that it is very difficult to place expensive medicines in compulsory form of health insurance, and for these purposes special funds are formed. Patients suffering from rare diseases around the world are in a specific position because diagnostics are complex, treatment specific, and there are problems in the availability of medicines. Parents are most often forced to rely on their own forces and human resources. They are often forced to become experts themselves, to learn about the regulation, the law, the rules, the treatment methods, to look for resources and real contacts. Very often, under the auspices of associations that gather families of patients who suffer from illnesses, they gain much more attention from public opinion, access to financial resources for their activities, and make the problems of the sick more visible in society. There are such associations in Serbia, and according to the report, the Citizens' Association "Life" has children for whom no diagnosis has been established for more than a decade, so they have not received the right to treatment. Fortunately, in Serbia since 2012, funds for treating patients with rare diseases have started to be provided from the budget. That's when 88 million dinars were allocated to them. The measure of the Ministry of Health, which recognized the weight of this problem, began to restore hope for families whose children were suffering from severe illnesses and that their children would be treated more adequately. The adoption of this law is another important step towards a more permanent solution to their problems. The rights and procedures will be precisely defined and guaranteed, because one society is only humane if it thinks about the health of its citizens and if it has a high degree of health and social protection of the sick, old and those who cannot afford to live on their own, which, of course, is a special concern for the youngest. According to the frequency of reporting, 7,000 rare diseases have been known so far. There are estimated to be up to half a million people. They struggle daily with severe, incurable diseases and finances, because many have to allocate several tens of thousands of dinars per month for therapy, which, as much as that, facilitates their disease. Although they mainly pay contributions to health insurance, they are not given adequate healthcare, most often there are no needed specialists, adequate medicines. It is not a problem that many rare diseases cannot be diagnosed in Serbia, because such centres do not have a much richer country, but there is no reason not to allow diagnostics abroad. Ideally, it would be if the disease were detected before it started to manifest itself, by screening, immediately after birth or prenatal diagnostics, not by too late. For example, Goshe’s disease is a rare progressive hereditary metabolic disorder. Today, there are about 40 people in Serbia who have Gosse’s disease, of which only six children are treated by the funds of the Republic of Serbia’s rare diseases, fourteen sufferers are treated through clinical studies, seven of whom are donated by a company that is the only one on the territory of Serbia with a registered cure for Gosse’s disease, while several have no treatment. At this point, the continuation of the grant programme is at risk and new treatment funding solutions are needed. For the largest number of rare diseases there is no cure yet, therefore the slogan on rare diseases in 2014 was “Let’s join together for better care”, because the quality of life for people with rare diseases depends not on the severity of the disease, but on the support of the whole society. Dear fellow MPs, this law is an opportunity for us all to unite for the benefit of those whose assistance is urgent and necessary. Given all these reasons that have initiated the adoption of this bill, the SPS will support the adoption of the bill on prevention, diagnostics of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20558	Thank you, Miss Marash. The word has an authorised representative, Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20559	Thank you very much for one nice explanation of the bill and for supporting this law. I'm glad you pointed out some illnesses, some of the rare diseases some of the youngsters who have been invisible to this day. You mentioned Goshe's disease, you mentioned Hunter's syndrome, I'd add Friedrich's ataxia, and I'd add some other diseases that were invisible, which we make virtually visible with this law. What the public needs to know, and in the National Organisation of Parents of Children with rare diseases are some wonderful, good people who are struggling, who are fighting for the lives of their children, and I hope that after this day and for them it will be much easier, not to be afraid of whether there will be money for the treatment of their children, that there will be no more opportunities for the President of the National Organisation for Rare Diseases, Marija Joldić literally to wait for the former health minister to, when she was sharing vehicles for the Ministry of Health, for health inspections, 300 and something of the vehicle to be shared, and there was no cure for her child, that she as president of the National Organisation literally waited with journalists and asked – what was it for my child? So this is something that is very important to understand, that these people are fighting for the lives of their children and that it's important that we understand, as poor as we are, we've been poor before, we may be even poorer in the coming period, but for sick children we have to have. Each of us has to have this in his head. I know these people personally, and I'm privileged, and I'm overjoyed to be part of this good group of people fighting for their children. I'd like you to meet some of them sometime, because they're fighting for the medicine of some other kids, not their own. So Davor Duboka prays for not his son, but prays for his friend's daughter, President Marija Joldic prays for another child. So, I'm glad that there are such good, decent and human people, when their child is life-threatening they collect money for another child, not their own, they beg the state for another child, not their own. This law will enable them not to worry anymore and that everyone together feels safer because they will have the support of the state, have the support of the ministry, because this law is exactly what it does. Thank you so much for your wonderful discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20560	I thank the legislator, Mr. Milisavljevic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the law from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is Dr Darko Laketic, and let the MP Dejan Nikolic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20561	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, above all, I look at this issue with three aspects, which are a legal aspect, a medical aspect and a human aspect. The human aspect is definitely the most dominant and must be the most dominant in this situation, especially because the sick and those who are not diagnosed definitely belong to vulnerabilities, sensitive groups that must have special attention to the entire social community. Also, it's very important and that and the reason is more that this area is definitely not governed by the law in our country. I believe that this law is a good basis to regulate the area of genetic health, which so far, I say and repeat, has not been regulated by any law. What I find professionally very important is prenatal diagnostics that determine the genetic health of the foetus. So the doctor is the responsible person who informs the pregnant woman and who points to further tests to determine possible genetic malformations. What is important is that such a finding is in fact a medical, ethical indication for the termination of pregnancy at the request of a pregnant woman, of course, which will be confirmed by the consular decisions of the Ethics Committee of the Institute and the consular decision of the doctor. Also, postnatal diagnostics are very important, especially in terms of early recognition of genetic malformations. However, what was the biggest problem in the previous period is the establishment of a central register for rare diseases. I don't think this law will solve the problem in that sense, but I think it will make a move. It is also very important to conclude that patients who are suffering from rare diseases who have not been diagnosed cannot have the right to a wheelchair, enteral food, etc., the right to receive treatment for the cost of RFO. In this way, I can only say that for me personally every newly established diagnosis is a great and human thing. So far, patients are most often driven under different working diagnosiss or temporary diagnosiss, and not only for procedural reasons, we have to stress this, but also for reasons because setting these diagnosiss in rare diseases is very complex in some cases. This should also be taken into account when submitting amendments. However, I am particularly pleased that dear counterpart Milisavljevic has finally come across a government that will support the law and implement it. I don't know if it was a wish for this law to be passed five, seven, ten years ago, but I'm still particularly glad that this law will be passed right now, because that's how the government's sincere intention to change everything that's wrong with the roots is presented. In this case, in the health care sector and in this case, first of all, the area that is not regulated by law. I'm convinced of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20562	Thank you. The word is proposed by Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20563	Dear Chairman, dear colleague Laketić, my dear friend, thank you very much for your comments and for your good presentation. I'll answer you once or twice since I've heard those comments - why wasn't that proposal when it was DS? I'm absolutely running from that one frame -- why wasn't it then? I will tell you that the initiative, that is, unfortunately, that there was no woman up there and, unfortunately, that this tragic case did not happen, and as a doctor, I was only familiar with rare diseases from the island, I had no contact, as you did with a specialist in urology, but only with rare diseases in the area. This topic exploded, as far as Serbia is concerned, in our public opinion a year and a half ago, thanks to this brave woman and this brave father of little Zoya. Why did they choose me? Why am I proposing this now? That's all little Zoya has done and set those strings. When you said I came across the government, I will publicly say it, why not, that Mr. Lonchar had and that one collegiate attitude and courage to accept the bill that came from a professor who was an opposition MP. Minister Lončar is one of the very decent and good, perhaps the best minister in the government, who is as a doctor performs, as a father and as a politician, who has no problem sharing SMS with me and consulting on some draft laws. So I said that even with this bill with NURDOR, I had his support, that we would define it together and adopt it, but with one goal only, to make it better for some kids who are sick and their parents. I guess that's the idea of politics. I'm more sick and tired of accusing each other of who did what ten or five years ago. Let's see what we do in the future, because we all live badly and we understand each other. I think this model of communication between Lonchar and me may be an example of some other ministries and some other calls that will come. We're going back to our professions, but, well, I wasn't ashamed to say this publicly. I think I answered your question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20564	Thank you. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20565	First of all, I am particularly pleased when both the Ministry of Health, on the one hand, and the entire government present such a way of working so that the bill's proposals are adopted in this way and above all presented, not just one democracy, but one sufficient amount of self-awareness that what is necessary must go on independent of who proposes it, whether it is a position or an opposition. I absolutely think we're okay with that. But, about this story of mine, which has absolutely nothing to do with politics, it already has to do with the suffering of these people and with the profession, or medicine, of rare diseases, definitely exist and existed in the earlier period, and these years and a half ago, since they've been alive, as the colleague says. But for the first time in the budget of the Ministry of Health there was an appraisal for rare diseases only in 2012. From 2012 to today, this amount that has been defined as rare diseases is constantly increasing, even by over 150%. What's very important and what we can talk about is whether this sum is enough for a total number of people who have had rare diseases? Once again, this isn't a replica, it's not a calling, it's just a finding. There is also more than good will and more than good intent and desire for what is wrong to change and for the system to be arranged in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20566	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dejan Nikolic, and let MP Milan Latkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20567	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and respected great fighters for children's rights, I must admit that, looking for words that I would address today to the public and to you people's MPs and who today would talk about Zoya's law, I have concluded that I couldn't do it any better than those people whose law concerns Zoya's most and who, by the power of will, have fought for Zoya's law to be on the agenda today. With this in mind, in addition to the Mirovljevic family struggle, I was particularly motivated by a text by Ivana Krgovic, which she posted on her blog by the mother of little Dusica, who has not been diagnosed for three years. With her permission, today I will read you this text that speaks of the path, of hope and of a strong call to civic activity. "In the mind is the devil's playground and wealth alienates people. Depression is pure luxury. Materialism leads to obstetrics. I could list all these life truths, but I want to put on the top of a list of one truth that I'd like to pack in three to five words without it sound pathetic. Pain and loss iron the morals, sharpen it, polish it and shape it. I've had a strong impression of people over the last three years, especially over the last ten days. Our Soul has led us on paths we certainly wouldn't have set foot in if we hadn't had to. We expected a carefree life with two ducks, not thinking about the difficulties life imposes, as they usually happen to others. It's the third year that Honey doesn't have a diagnosis. It's progressing, but in mouse steps. I cannot openly say that we are not depressed, although we are under pressure and that it often and sincerely makes us laugh and rejoice. She just opened a new door for us. No one knows what's wrong with the child. The doctors play ping-pong with us, the results of happiness come back good. It's obvious that we've drawn the possibility of a state, but about that some other time. I had the honour of meeting the wife of dragons and men of heroes Bojana Mirovljevic and Dusan Milisavljevic, who I am walking with these days from the Palace of Serbia, through the Ministry of Health, to the Assembly, were not we, concrete specimens, pushed "Zoja's Law", penetrated the hard ice of the mazeal health system and reached the light at the end of the tunnel called the possibility of diagnostics, somewhere where someone knows something more. All of this is not important now how important it is to know that there are still Don Quixotes who are really struggling with windmills and for a higher purpose, which some of the loss or pain has encouraged to pave the path of others and thus spare them what they've been going through. Knowing that the fact that you are here today, tomorrow you may not be and that our essential battle knows it or learns it, that circumstances press it, and immediately then realize that the essence is good, that the size of helping is and that there is no money that can replace it, that man feels really good when he does something good for others and that the world can easily be a nice place to rest. It brings back hope to me in terms of life here, at this point in the universe, where I always break down, go or stay. I don't feel good, and I'm driven by the terrible circumstances in which we live and listen and watch every day, ignorance, grampity, shallowness, inscrupulousness, rudeness. Then I meet Bojana, who lost Zoya, and it wasn't the end there either, until she gave birth, thank the Universal, healthy Bianca, and who is still following the crying parents around the children's hospital when they're wronged, who leads them around Belgrade and pushes their papers to send them abroad and honor their treatments, while someone else is guarding her little heroine. She could sit at home and enjoy herself. Then I get to know Dushan, for months I've been looking at the Assembly in the same infidelity as what's going on, who pays his MP's fee to those who need it more, because he's decently living on his salary, who comes to Belgrade on his expenses with Bojan and invests his time and knowledge in order to fight for "Zoja's Law" and how some kids tomorrow wouldn't lose their years wandering around Kafka's halls of our health, Dushan, who's certainly similar to knowing that you're here today, tomorrow maybe you haven't pushed into these benefactory waters. He could've been sitting at home after a hard time on duty or in a bar. I think I'd run into this somewhere where I'm blinded by the glow of the golden tooth from the smiles of the Western system and think about watering my own garden and some tickling opportunity for each of us to get some good work of at least two or three of us around. Olgica launched a wonderful "Translation Heart" initiative, where free translations of medical documentation for children in need of treatment abroad are being done. Tamara Luksic Orlandic accepted that she was working without compensation as chairman of the Financial Fund Supervisory Board and had already spent part of her evening there to answer my emails. Our Tanya comes twice a week to re-educate with the Soul, not pay her. It may be extremely utopian or idealistic, but I'm dreaming of everyone taking on a little piece of a job that would be doing volunteer work for someone who really needs it, giving their two hours a week for some charity work that nobody would profit from. The iron will of these people will push "Zoja's Law" into the light of day, for all children, for children children, relatives, friends, all those who asked us – And what will you, Mom, be diagnosed? Do you know how many rare diseases and disorders there are and how many undiagnosed children in the world? Well, for finding out, there's probably no cure. So why is it that your child now gets the chance to treat? Yeah, all right! Here, I'm gonna throw these few kilos of my bad kid in a nearby container or hide it to make it easier for you, so it doesn't complicate your job. I'm sorry, Doctors, for taking time. A dozen of them broke us and didn't break us. Two of them gave me back the faith that society can re-evaluate itself because humanity is really contagious, if you get a sense of it, and you better open it yourself, before it opens up to it a series of amazing circumstances that usually happen to others. “ I thank Ivana Krgović. I think it is our obligation today to put "Zoja's Law" in one broader context, that the strength of these people who fought for "Zoja's Law" today domino effect. These people certainly are, and if we today motivate at least one man in Serbia to do humanitarian work, to benefit from charity, to volunteer for those who need help, today we will do twice as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20568	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is proposed by Dr Dusan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20569	The Honorable Chairman, I'll be very brief. A colleague, Nikolic, mentioned the Humanitarian Fund, which was formed by the Ministry of Health. On a case-by-case basis, along with Bojan and the mothers of children who are suffering from rare diseases, who still have no diagnosis, I've had a chance to get to know the people who run this charity fund. I also want to publicly say that Tamara Luksic, chairman of the Supervisory Board of this humanitarian fund, is a wonderful woman. You have also heard in this blog of this mother, it is a woman who works free and volunteering as chairman of the Supervisory Board and me, as a doctor, who gives confidence that all children who have a problem and who turn around, along with their parents, will have the support of the state. It is very important, given that many humanitarian actions are being organised and a shadow is being thrown at various problems that happen with money from these humanitarian funds, this woman is giving me confidence and I wanted to publicly state her name and praise her and wish her much success in the work of this humanitarian fund, which is unique to the Balkans, and that Tamara will continue on her life trip, and her life path is children's rights and the protection of children's rights, so that she is the best person who could be the chairman of that monitoring board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20570	Thank you, Mr. Milosavlovich. The word has Dr Milan Latkovic, and let the MP Alexander Peranovic be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Latkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20571	Thank you, Chairman. The respected chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, supports the adoption of the law by the SPS, primarily for human and health reasons. I would point out that I believe that the degree of humanity and solidarity of a society is measured by how many in that society are successful in the real protection of their members who have been ill, thus being powerless and weak, and making up a minority. I think the adoption of this law will raise the level of protection to a higher level, that it will allow primary prevention, diagnostics and treatment of genetic and rare diseases to go to the burden of health insurance, and it is primarily about the child population. I would remind myself that funds for the treatment of patients suffering from rare diseases in Serbia are only provided from the 2012 budget, when 88 million dinars were allocated, in 2013, 130 million dinars, and last year 260 million dinars. How significant the state's decision suggests that for parents of children suffering from rare diseases, this support is at a monthly level of savings of 25 to 50,000 dinars. The implementation of this law involves connecting several branches of medicine, especially the genetics of pediatrics and gynecology into one functional continent, to ensure more effective diagnosis and help in treating the youngest patients. It also fills legal gaps from other laws that do not cover the right to treat these patients. The provisions of this law reduce the period of performance of objective diagnostics as an important prerequisite for effective treatment. Prenatal, postnatal and targeted genetic diagnostics have been defined. Certain health procedures and standards are established in the prevention of diagnostics, testing and treatment of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases. The necessary procedures as well as the obligations of doctors and patients shall be protocold. Doctors undertake to adopt, perfect and apply new scientific knowledge in the field of prevention, diagnostics and treatment of this disease. Dear colleagues and colleagues, initiators of this law, as you have already heard, which is known as Zoya's law are the parents of the girl Zoja Mirovljevic. She died of the consequences of Bethany’s disease, which falls within a very rare hereditary disease. The essence of the bill is that the diagnosis of children with rare illnesses is made as soon as possible to allow occasional treatment. If no diagnosis has been made, the child cannot be adequately treated, nor can he obtain appropriate help with certain types of illnesses. This is how precious time is wasted and the quality of life is visibly ruined. The bill obliges doctors to decide if they fail to diagnose within six months, instructions for biological samples or a patient in an external health care facility where diagnosis would be established. This would certainly speed up the treatment process, because any delay in starting treatment can have a very bad effect on patient health. This bill gives the basic and constitutionally guaranteed right, which is the right to be treated. Also, this bill is in line with the additional protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, which Serbia ratified in 2010, as well as the European Charter of Patients' Rights. From what I'm told, I would like to point out once again that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20572	Thank you, Mr. Latkovic. The People's MP Aleksandar Peranovic has the word, and let the People's Parliament of Mirjana Dragas be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Peranovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20573	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow MPs, respected parents of little Zoya, today's law on the prevention and diagnosis of genetic diseases and genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases is indeed something that our society needs and what is the agreement of all the factors involved in its creation. In addition to human medical and other legal aspects, it is very important to point out that on the medical side it covers the largest part of our favorite population, and these are children. Indeed, when in today’s debate with the midday Health Committee, when we heard that in the world over 300 million people suffer from rare diseases, then we can speak with full right that it is not so few people who suffer from these rare diseases. But the willingness to deal with such a problem is, I must point out and say that both the Government and the Ministry and this Assembly have made a full contribution besides the promoters to find this in today's debate. Why? When we talk about diagnostics, it can be done in our country and there should be centers to open diagnostic centers, and I will first and foremost point out that prevention is something that is most important and important to our society. If we have prevention, if we have prenatal, postnatal and targeted diagnostics, we will do so much better and to a greater extent manage to stop the percentage or increase of these rare diseases. Why does it matter? Well, it's important that our nation, that the entire state and the entire population, in this way, come to a healthier generation, that something that exists in the indications or indications of this disease to prevent it, because we often spoke in the previous period, we didn't deal with the cause we were dealing with the consequences. Let's also come through laws like this to deal with the cause, which is precisely in prevention medicine and preventive treatment. In this way, we will stop many of these rare diseases, and we will preserve all those parents who spend so much pain and suffering around their children. On the other hand, the social aspect is that mothers often spend time with children and they are unable to work. After a while and losing the right to work is another problem we're making socially. In order not to owe much about this law many today who spoke talked on the same subject, I will say that this government has indeed shown determination, responsibility and above all, one awareness of the citizens to come out and work always in the interest of the citizens. Indeed, I think this is next to those reform laws another law that was needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20574	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Mirjana Dragas, and let the National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20575	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today very interesting but valuable, as we have heard from the debate, and we have seen from the very content of the bill on prevention, diagnostics, but I would say that it is necessary to say in the title itself, as well as in the text and in relation to the treatment of genetic diseases. Many of the issues that have been defined and specified have already been regulated in certain segments, in some health care laws and exist in our medical practice. However, it is obviously not enough and therefore appears necessary to have one such comprehensive law that would regulate this matter uniquely and in one place. More and more young couples and pregnant women whose pregnancy is accompanied with the goal of bringing a beautiful and healthy child to the world. A timely education is being done, explained, interpreted, is an active prevention, can be said, and this is the Law on Health Protection made it possible and defined in a certain way. All these analyses and this type of prevention aim at timely detection of possible rare diseases anomalies. Our science, especially our genetics is at a very high level and the institutions are also achieving significant and envious scientific results. However, there is a situation in life for various reasons, and above all, ignorance, mistrust, and so on, where various genetic research is not done in time, where they cannot or can not be done in the way it should be done, and the consequences that we see in life remain enormous. The consequences of both fate and child health, mental and material problems of the family, social problems, complex health problems and so on. It is therefore important and particularly important to point out that this law is proposed which explicitly and in one place regulates issues related to reproductive health and healthy offspring and their healthy life. It is also important to point out that this law refers to the co-operation of several branches of medicine, i.e. doctors, and gynecology, genetics and paediatrics. They form as we see in the bill and develop centres that will also have greater powers and greater opportunities to monitor and encourage this type of health research and health prevention. What is particularly important, the law allows you and will allow you to be more involved in our medicine in the coming period with international research centres and for what we cannot find a cure in our country, we will be linked to these international centres and analyzed from there. All of this is for the purpose, as the debate so far has shown, that we actually ensure that children are born healthy, and if they have health problems, they have special needs, we need to point out in time and provide them with all the necessary health care and care. It is important to say that this law cannot, of course, solve problems, but it can potentiate what is important, prevention and diagnostics. Despite overall attention, there are children and small patients who suffer from rare diseases that need to be provided with all care and protection. Children who suffer from rare diseases are often doctors for months, and sometimes years cannot determine the type and nature of the disease, so neither can healing. The suffering, the hard life, they keep going. The aim of the law is to define the condition, to define the disease, to provide assistance, to provide adequate treatment and the need to provide special medicines, special nutrition in certain cases and special aids. I especially think it should be when this law is at issue. This law allows the provision of special health services. In all phases of life when a child is born and some rare problems are observed, patients with rare diseases are most often children as we have heard, because anomalies and problems are seen quickly after birth, and due to complications of difficult diagnostics, complexity of the condition, inadequate or inadequate treatment, life span is short. That's why we're talking about this topic, about the treatment and protection of children. Treatment of such diseases involves greater care, of course, and greater costs for both family and society. It is therefore important to provide for an appropriate budget in order to implement and implement the law, we know and we are aware of that, but it is a necessary, active role of the Republic Health Protection Fund, as well as other humanitarian funds. Today's debate has shown great weight and presence of this problem, it has shown solidarity and responsibility, it has shown humanity, but it has also shown our overall social slowness, in some cases the trombone and insensitivity that in time, the problems that exist adequately respond and that, to the shortest possible extent, the situations that are problematic, solve or allow them to solve them faster. That is why today's debate is also dramaticly encouraging our commitment to be in this direction in the future and more organised and more solidarity. So today, when it comes to this, for all these reasons, I will vote for this initiative as well as the entire SPS parliamentary group expressing gratitude and deep respect for the parents who have endured in this battle, according to Dr Milisavljevic, who has fought for this law to come to the agenda, according to sensitivity and understanding in the Ministry of Health, but I will remind you that this is just one micro-plan of our health problem. It's important to solve things part by piece, but it's also important to perfect and improve our overall broken health system where patients meet a lack of doctors and medicines, with high prices, with huge lines, with impossible waiting lists, all these problems require an answer in terms of if health is our greatest wealth, let's keep it on time in the best possible way. We seek and seek what is better health care, as in the previous meeting of the Ministry of Health were the laws on health insurance and on the protection and rights of patients, etc., which should form the basis just to get better and organised health care. When it comes to this, I'm just going to point out a problem that's also very disturbing me these days, and that's a problem that concerns children again, and it's about the immunization of children. We used to have a system of protection in the country where, as citizens, we didn't ask whether immunisation was necessary for children or not. We had no confidence in this type of protection, we didn't have a problem with regular vaccination, whether the children's parents brought themselves to a home of health by following regular dynamics, or when it should be done, or when it's done in schools. Today, unfortunately, there has been some crack in that trust, so doubt, fear, disorder, lack of vaccines, and yet children are at stake. So I urge this opportunity to pay adequate attention to this problem in time, to restore trust and to the very system of appropriate vaccines, their regularity and control of the obligation and responsibility of the state to stand absolutely behind it with the complete profession that we have, but at the same time, to send such a message to all citizens. The laws that were passed here in the previous period are important. This was mentioned in today's debate and child protection against sexual violence, preventing domestic violence, repairing the situation of disabled people etc. Of course, this law, which I hope will soon be passed when it comes to treating cancers in children, is also mentioned, but the sensitivity to the topics that were once ended, is now increasingly present and means greater sensitivity and responsibility of society. It is a good sensitivity, but it must not go to the heart of the general state, especially the general state of health and the need to provide adequate health care to citizens in all institutions and in all places equally in the village and in the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20576	Thank you. The word is proposed by Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20577	Dear Chairman, dear colleague Dragas, thank you very much for your fine presentation and thank you very much for your support of the law. I just want to give you information when you were talking about immunisation, when you were talking about the problem and the fear of parents that they have on an ever-present anti-produced campaign in Serbia, but it is also being conducted in some Balkan countries, both in Croatia, Macedonia and Montenegro. I would like to inform you that the minister himself has expressed his desire to open this topic in the Assembly, and we will be holding one Health and Family Committee tomorrow thematically with this issue, and it is a big one. It's about the fear of parents who, I understand as a father, that when you hear from some charlatans to send messages of fear that a child will get autism, that a child will get a fras, that will get multiples, that will get whatever those people already invent. I've held a thematic conference in the National Assembly two days ago, and I can tell you that after that I'm a regular target, here, as a MP, I want to get to know the public, the regular target of these people through social networks where they write everything and everything about me. I want to point out as a doctor the importance of immunization, because immunization is one civilizational good, something that has saved the greatest number of lives, more than any medical method or surgery or medicine, so it's very dangerous to let those people who haven't even finished medical colleges present themselves as doctors who propagate looking at the sun, who propagate walking with bare feet and other things, who propagate that vaccines are not taken, which they propagate not to take cytostatics, but to eat raw food. So, where did we go back? In the Middle Ages. Is this the Middle Ages? Should we allow these charlatans to be allowed so easily and so that I support the minister's request that the profession be declared, the doctors made known, that public health institutes, medical schools, Serbian medical society, the medical chamber be declared. Only the Ministry of Health does so tomorrow and initiates this thematic meeting of the Health and Family Committee. As long as they confuse the citizens of Serbia, because we are slowly experiencing more and more cases in Belgrade and Novi Sad and in southern Serbia, the epidemics of some diseases that we have managed to overcome, so that we must also be complex here and that those people who spread fear through social networks we label, even sanction, because no one can, no one has the right. I understand that everyone has the right to express their opinion, but to mislead your parents, to threaten our nation's health, they have no right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20578	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Let MP Borislav Stefanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20579	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, parents of Little Zoya, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have already announced that we will actively participate in every congregation procedure that brings good to our people, and in this case to our patients. We believe that rare diseases are extremely severe diseases that require a complex way of treating and mobilizing all kinds of diagnostics and treatments that exist. In fact, late or inadequate recognition and diagnosis of rare diseases often result in permanent damages, including death of the sick, all of which also have a major impact on the families of the sick. Rare diseases have been recognised as a public – health priority in Europe in recent decades, with the need for regulation in the field of health policies relating to rare diseases, and given the specificity and importance of rare diseases for the health of the population. All this involves improving early detection and timely diagnostics and adequate treatment of rare diseases through the development of health policies, which will improve the quality and availability of healthcare for the sick, as well as the development of cooperation and exchange of experiences with other European countries, as well as the exchange of knowledge. To remind you, in August 2014, the Government of the Republic of Serbia established a budget fund for the treatment of disease, condition or injury that cannot be successfully treated in our country. The Fund has been established to provide additional resources for the treatment of disease, condition or injury, as well as for the treatment of those suffering from certain rare diseases which are treatable and which cannot be successfully treated in our country and for which the Republic Health Insurance Fund cannot provide an adequate amount of funds for the treatment of contributions for compulsory health insurance and other sources of funding under the law. Fund funds can be awarded to children up to 18 years of age if there is no diagnosis in our country. All this says that Serbia has recognised the importance and need to regulate this area, as well as that all entities are at a common position, that special attention should be paid to this sensitive population, most of the children. It is clear to all of us that the purpose of adopting this law is not only to humanise relations with people with rare diseases and genetic disorders, but to show that we are ready to deal with the problems and obstacles faced by all those living with rare diseases. On this occasion, I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Milisavljevic, for the initiative, but I would like to say that both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry of Health, led by Minister Loncar, have actively participated in the analysis and processing of the bill's proposal, given that this is a very serious issue, which must be seen in a comprehensive way, that this vital problem is being resolved legislatively and materially, in order not to create dilemmas and ambiguities in the application of the law, means in one comprehensive way, and all for the benefit of patients. In addition, we have shown that rare diseases for us are not neglected, abandoned diseases that are more frequently represented in developing and transition countries, and that are rare in percentages compared to other diseases, but that they do not have a health priority in our health system. We have just shown the opposite, and we have shown that we care about the health of our people and when it comes to rare diseases, so the SNS will support this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20580	I thank Mrs. Mrdakovic Todorovic. Since Mr. Stefanovic is not in the O.R., the word has been given by the MP Milet Poscuric, and let the National MP Nevenka Milosevic be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Pocuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20581	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Proposer, I am pleased that we are finally talking about this, a problem that has long been registered among all of us, which, of course, is needed in addition to the proposed form of the law and that the state determines the mechanisms that the law will implement, because we can pass the most ideal laws, but if we don't have mechanisms to implement them, can we finance everything, then we would remain one of the non-applicable laws. I believe that this law will not experience the fate of inapplicability, because after consulting you and the luck to have with this ministry, since you remember earlier ministerial compositions in which neither the amendments were accepted by the Minister nor the relevant governments, today the Ministry has adopted the law so-called. "the opposition MP", but on this plan, there is no opposition and finally, the committee does so. In addition to this committee, the Committee on Science, Education and Information Society also works on this principle, where these political polarisations are the least. This law is written as a special indigenous law and it will cover all those places which perhaps other laws or related laws otherwise involved and in this proposal, are unable to cover these theoretically, remains a variant that we may have been able to intervene in several related laws to introduce this into the so-called Health Protection Act, social health care. So we could have changed Article 11 and introduced rare diseases and everything else, but maybe this is the way they agreed with the ministry, simpler and less it would have been a change in the set of laws, as we were recently doing the Law on Lawyerry when we changed and we had to change the whole set of laws by analog means to introduce it. However, we are going to bring this into circulation, and in my further story, according to my own kind of position for years confirmed to me by the proposings, no matter what side I come from, I will try to share with you the misunderstandings that may oblige me to make them public, to see what you and we, possibly the committee, have learned today on the board that amendments will come from both the government and the amendments have already arrived to us from different parliamentary groups, so that we can avoid a sort of match, simply to see what we might be able to do if there are some uncertainty, at least as far as the promoters and representatives of the government are concerned, to change. So, first of all, I'd like to start with that positive mass of members that I don't mention, which means they're well done and I agree with that. I want to isolate that so-called. mass screening or it's probably subpopulation screening in which very well, especially in point 3, separate from which the screening program will predict, point 3 is crucial, it seems to me in this Article 13. In Article 14, where it is referred to as the right to diagnosis, I would like to, now that I am not a supporter of those who change the law because of one word or fall, where it is not necessarily necessary to preserve the spirit of language, but if we are talking about the diagnosis in attitude 3 preceding treatment, we are introducing a definition of a diagnosis that is not otherwise defined and in no law, or that we have not defined the term “diagnose” in particular. We've been doing it here and he's done it within a framework, of course he's foreseen that as part of the patient's notice. When she owes the patient, the doctor is obliged to make a diagnosis, even if she's working here. So, this work diagnosis is a way that you might be able to give a luft, time to a doctor or different teams or a group of doctors or different institutions to come up with a diagnosis, as we have already heard from many, this path to diagnosis is often thorny, long-term and cannot be defined by a physician for a final diagnosis. To that end, you may need to consider this, the doctor is obliged to act in accordance with... Standards. I completely agree, the doctor has the freedom to choose diagnostic procedures, and I agree, you should probably give some of the written provision, which is gradually in the selection of diagnostic procedures because you are already talking about the forbidden use of diagnostics in the next position, overdiagnosion. We didn't legally define what excessive diagnostics are. We know that maybe sometimes a salutary leap of some diagnostic method in the other general population, so someone, let's say, instead of going to the X-rays to go to the scanner or something else to do, which is, of course, paradoxical. Here it is likely that the guides, the guides, those you have proposed to the Ministry to implement and the competent institutions that we will follow within three months, may be longer, so they will probably give some professional, methodological instructions, not to risk so-called. Excessive diagnostics, rather than being concessive, planned, to know what's behind each other functionally and logically follows. In the last position, in the case of invasive diagnostics and spaces. Every diagnostic procedure carries with it a recommendation when it can be done, when it can be repeated. Even the most severe surgical intervention, it can theoretically re-emerge the next day, if there's been dehiscation, haemorrhagic or something else. So, put into the law a space, can-to-morrow if there's been dehiscention, haemorrhagic or something else, so that, put it in the law space, can tomorrow, because when I say this, I'm thinking about "controversial sides". It's a child, a parent or, on the other hand, a lawyer you're complaining to, a judge you're suing for something, and it's a doctor who's been working. It's hard to define the gap between procedures. He's mostly in the description of the procedure that the condition for performing some invasive procedure and whether it or some other invasive is repeated, is mostly defined by the nature of the procedure itself, so I'm saying, if you think this position is 9, 10, or which is in order, it should stay so, it's okay. If you think something can be fixed on that plan, we'll have a board, so as an amendment of the board, we can possibly go, we can consider it, but I think it's the most honest thing to consider, not us to give our suggestions and to change. It's just, this is how we keep in mind what it is that may have come about. Something that I am personally interested in right now, I have not heard so far comment on, the right patient to withdraw his consent, it's perfectly normal. And in earlier laws, we have it. That's understood. There's some logic in that, but the right of the patient to refuse to report results without any limit, that's a little vague. I believe someone might be able to explain to me what that means. See how complex the procedure is, you get a certain diagnostic procedure. Imagine, even abroad, because there's a willingness to go abroad after a while, get a result that's defeated by relatives, and then decide not to tell him and destroy the material and the evidence of the result being destroyed, and the disease, for example, continues to progress. How will this person, when he really comes to a difficult evolutionary stage, be treated, accompanied, then how will this be followed if you destroy everything and if relatives, parents, one or the other, mother or father of the ban? What if they want to go again, if it's a matter of pregnancy, then in a new pregnancy, will someone repeat the procedure? But why ruin it? Imagine in the somatic population if some X-ray was found to have some kind of malignant disease ordered that it not be reported to you and that x-ray was destroyed? I understand that it's being put under control, that it's not available and mass-published, that's what the law says, but just explain to me why, after so much effort to come up with a diagnosis, that suddenly the one who gave the written consent or some other kind of consent should have different definitions, suddenly decided not to tell him anything and that everything was destroyed, I don't know why? It's consent to the diagnostic grid. In Section 2, I was going to ask you, and then I'll probably bring the discussion to an end, not to exaggerate in this story, because these were mostly key misunderstandings about what's going to happen. Don't let God start tomorrow's debate in front of the courts, with a skilled lawyer and an under-prepared court expert, because we're going to barely get people into committees, to get into expert committees, and they can't be judicial-medical experts, to pull over, and an insecure expert, and a laundry lawyer, hard for a judge to decide. What do I mean? "The patient shall give consent to a post-diagnostic measure with an explicit statement or silent action which means his consent." I'm trying to figure out what kind of shops they are -- head nod or whatever? The third point, this same genetic diagnostic as the analysis, as well as taking samples, requires written consent. I understand that, but this person from the stand cannot clearly give written consent, although he is trying to split or dismember in Section 5 of this Section 3 or closer, or explain that this relates to the extent of genetic testing. So the patient can decide how long he'll be in diagnostics. It is his right not to agree to anything, but the possibility that the result of the interrogation may be available to other persons. I couldn't agree more. He has the right to put the deed on that document, but why not have the right to know and why diagnostically, the outcome of the diagnosis is only well-guarded, if the disease has a tendency to progress, so maybe tomorrow it has to start with treatment. Or maybe there'll be a cure, and then five years of a person's life will show up on the market, but then you have to start the whole procedure to diagnose yourself. So, about, that's something I had to say, analyzing a member by member. Of course, I have some other objections, but they're not so big of a misunderstanding, mostly about what I just said, about a commission that will give instructions for abroad and for questioning and for treatment, which is in line with the spirit that the law applies and that's quite right, to help and to treat. Finally, the Fund has been established and there is obvious co-operation and what the Health Insurance Fund will invest, it is all that diagnostics carried out in Serbia from prenatal, postnatal diagnostics, etc., which is usually carried out mainly in state-level health institutions, on state-owned property, and this will cover the Fund, and what will cover the special Fund for the treatment of rare diseases is something that is the achievement of this government, which should be welcomed, because I believe it will be of great benefit to the parents and children affected by this. Thank you. I may have been too long, but, in general, these are my misunderstandings about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20582	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20583	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow MPs and parents of little Zoya, but also children suffering from rare diseases, I think we are unique today in the view that all the MPs are here. It is an exceptional pleasure to have today as the only item of the agenda the draft law on the prevention and diagnosis of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases. This bill was supported by 227 MPs, saying that we really recognized the problem and that he should be really visible from tomorrow or the day after tomorrow and that these patients will never be invisible to you again. On this occasion, I would like to thank all my fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Doctors and the Health Department. I'm not from that sector, and I'm speaking as a parent, as a longtime educational worker, but also as a member of the Education Committee, because I don't think I should explain this big relationship between education and health. Because sometimes, when it comes to major problems, including health problems, and how important the role of education and prevention is. I therefore believe that the first two words of this law - prevention and diagnostics, are the key words of this whole law. I'd say we're all a little sensitive here when we talk about kids. Because we're parents, too. I personally know some of the families and some of the children who suffer from these diseases, and I know what kind of problems and difficulties they face. It's simple, it's hell, and this is one message to the general public, to the parents and children that they won't be lonely anymore, that this law will be passed and that we stand behind them, not just the MPs and this Assembly, but the wider social public. The reasons for this law are numerous. But I'd say the first motive is human motive. There are further medical reasons, but, of course, the legal reasons for passing such an important law. Human reasons, of course, because with these rare diseases, they are primarily faced with a high percentage of children. We know from practice that the diagnosis can't be made for months and years, and we know how important the diagnosis is and that it precedes one good treatment, which it insists on and this law. Of course, those children, faced with so many problems, should have the support of their families, the closest. But it's not just them, it's the wider social community. They must, in addition to all these difficulties, have support, respect for their personality, which reflects this humanity. Hard to deal with all these problems, as a consequence of these problems being, I would say, isolation and in some way discrimination. It is important, as we have heard in today's debate, to include both genetics and pediatrics and gynecology. I think we're going to have much better results in one of these ways, legally. Of course, there are legal reasons, because so far we haven't had one special law that regulates this problem, which is related to genetic diseases. I, as well as several MPs, would point out that the government has recognised this problem, which the Ministry has been involved in solving this problem, and as we can see, we will have a series of amendments that will improve this bill's proposal, so that it will be as good as possible. Of course, this law does not tend to solve all problems, because the problems in the health system are really great, but the ministry will also implement reform moves in health care and bring reform laws. I'd like to point out to this occasion that rare diseases are really rare, but that rare diseases suffer, many patients are faced. According to the data that I have, in Serbia, these rare diseases hurt somewhere around 500,000 people, which I do have a lot, and we have 850,000 people with disabilities. I would like to point out that according to the World Health Organization, health is not only the absence of disease, but it is also completely physical, psychological and mental well-being. According to the EU, it is considered a rare disease that affects less than five people per 10,000 inhabitants. With all the good proposals and this bill and the amendments that we're going to adopt, I have one suggestion that it's not just the law that's enough. I propose that we bring in a more recent period and a strategy from which an action plan for rare diseases will come and, of course, a counselling centre for rare diseases, because education and timely information and how important and sometimes really crucial it is. I want to appeal to the general public, to all of us here to really be responsible for our health, especially my children's health, because it's not said that health really is the greatest wealth and that it is the greatest resource. That's why I call on all the MPs to support this law, to vote in favour of the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20584	Thank you. The word is proposed by Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20585	Dear Chairman, dear colleague Milosevic, I thank you for your fine presentation and for your support of the law. Your proposal to do a national strategy on rare diseases is already under way, it's already done. I think it's already coming to an end. It's done at the Ministry and it's done by the National Disease Organization. It is one of the ways that we will systematically solve, in addition to this law, that we have a national strategy and that we have a national register. It's something that's also very important that we have a rare disease register. So thank you so much for your suggestions. I had an obligation to tell you that this is in the final phase, as far as the national strategy is concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20586	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20587	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished citizens, we have heard from several aspects in this afternoon's debate on this law. By passing this law, I must have my impression, listening to the whole chain of how this law occurred in the assembly procedure, to say that it is obvious how life dictates the adoption of certain laws. In this case, it is a law in the field of health, and it is obvious how persistent it is, which I must repeat, although some have repeated before me, the tenacity of these Zoja's parents that, according to counterpart Milisavljevic, lead to the explosion of the media problem of rare diseases. The tenacity of those parents was great. Well done. They then found and were in some way guides and other parents to join in fighting the disease of those children. Until a year and a half ago, until the real public was widely familiar, who knows how many Zoes were in the last decades we didn't know about. He knew about rare diseases in a narrow medical cycle, but a wider community of citizens, since it was considered literally rare diseases, although statistics, not to repeat, were heard, inexorable and not so rare. One family's tenacity was needed to eventually come to the next step, and this is also an appropriate reaction in the Serbian Parliament, in order to ultimately result in a law on rare diseases. It is another law that properly completes and gives a more comprehensive and quality breadth to our health system. We have the Law on Health Care, on the protection of patients, not to mention, but this law was, to use, one void that should certainly have been filled. When we talk about this area of genetic health, it is one of the same important aspects, which we have not had at all, and which in this way will now cover one part that has been neglected in terms of legal regulation, although in medical practice and in medical diagnostics, as far as possible, was in health and there were citizens, but even we, here as a doctor, I did not know, and I heard in the course of the law making, that in our Republic Fund, and not only in ours, you heard from our authorised representative that even at the level of the World Health Organization, a cipher of these rare diseases has not yet been done, and that these diseases, when we say disease, are individuals, who are faced with one disease that is difficult and, unfortunately, often and incurable, remain invisible to health. But, an example of the adoption of this law, as well as the recent months of adoption and establishment of the Fund for the Treatment of Children abroad, certainly shows that awareness and one policy in health are a clear principle that has been developed by the Ministry of Health, that clear problems are being seen and recognised, but that not only remains on it, but that there are very effective and clear solutions, and the right solutions are, strategic solutions, that any problems are regulated through legislation, because by adopting appropriate laws, I am talking about this moment, the safety of our citizens on the right to be treated and to be such diseases, such as rare diseases, and which are not put in place and, as was the previous decades, unfortunately, the youngest patients in the second plan, but that society is absolutely dealt with in full capacity in terms of the diagnosis of treatment, which these rare diseases are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20588	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, respected parents, Serbia has welcomed today to pass this Law on genetic diseases, a genetically conditioned anomaly and rare diseases. Serbia has welcomed that one civic initiative and one parent's love and their grief over a lost child can be translated into one law, that their strength and will, solidarity and desire help other children, when they could not already do so. To give other kids a chance, she's been passed into a new law today. She welcomed Serbia to have a fund to treat children abroad, where we can't do it here. She welcomed Serbia to be the first country in the Balkans to adopt this Law on Genetic Diseases. Finally, Serbia has welcomed the unexpected becoming one human society, responsible, a society that is starting to take care of all its citizens, and most of all the most valuable ones, which are our little ones. It welcomed Serbia that there was a time behind us in which there was a dark weather, dark corridors where the moles could not be seen, and the moles remained, as Bishop Nikolai said, that the health minister could go to operate abroad for a discussion of hernia, and that there was no money for those youngsters at the time that they could operate. She welcomed Serbia, that it could be both a democratic society and an open one, that one MP with parents could submit an initiative, and that the ministry would give full support and include itself, that 26 amendments, the ministry and that one difficult job, to come to a law, to give him life. We have received 45 amendments to 45 members as far as this law has and which shows how difficult it is to convey one wish, an honest desire, and to come to a real and solution that will be applicable. Mr. Milosavljevic, I am convinced that he has been before, because they are not rare diseases and genetic diseases since yesterday and are not since October, neither since May, nor since two years ago, nor since five years ago, nor since 10, these are diseases since they became society and will be and there were, because that is life and I know that he wanted to try some things before, perhaps in health reform, when he was in power, when they were in power, but then probably Serbia was not so mature. Perhaps Serbia could not go into such reforms as it is today, and Serbia probably didn't have that human relationship at the time, and that feeling that it had to change and become a society that would be more recognizable by much more than when it sold itself and all its assets, and didn't know that it invested you in what the real human value is. That is why I thank this initiative, thanks to the Ministry and the Government, which recognizes the real values, because what we are doing today is not just a law that will help and will certainly help many young people. This is something that shows that we as a society are mature and that it is much, much more valuable than anything that will come out of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20590	Thank you. The word is proposed by Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20591	Dear Chairman, dear colleague Blažić, thank you very much for your fine presentation and for your support of this law. When I applauded you during the speech, I also wanted to explain to you why I applauded, because I share your opinion. I too am ashamed of the health minister who operated in another country, not Serbia. He thus left out, and he insulted the entire health profession of the Republic of Serbia, insulted all doctors, and I feel it as a personal insult. Because he humiliated the doctors, he said that these doctors don't know how to operate and he went there and spent money on our citizens, our debtors. I share your opinion, and that's why I applauded you, so you know why I am. I was ashamed of such a minister, where fortunately if I had been a screw in the DS, I would have replaced him at the moment. What I was then in the DS, I wasn't even a member of the Health and Family Committee, because they were much more important people than I was then, I was with the Committee on Industry, as a professor of medical school. I've now expressed my anger with one such human policy at that moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20592	The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Let the MP Jasmina Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20593	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we got this law under consideration I was extremely pleased that the law had entered the procedure, regardless of who it came from, although I had talked to Mr. Milisavljevic about some other laws and I am very pleased that this law had come into the procedure. However, I thought we'd only talk about the law, talk about all its medical aspects, and not in any way get political connotation through this law. However, while listening to former regime MPs here and there, some have tried to get by some political point with this law, which I don't think is right at all. But let's put it aside, if we observe this law, we can divide it into two parts, at least I've divided it, reading it and thinking about it. One section refers to our patients, most often children, who have already suffered from some of the rare diseases and who have been invisible in our health system, who unfortunately have had sex from the merciless to the unloved, asking for help, the possibility of diagnostics, and possible treatment. With this law and the Register of Rare Diseases, we have introduced it into a legally binding form, by being able and required to perform diagnostics in our country, on the burden of the Republic Fund, which some charity organizations will enter to fund. Unless we are able to detect any of the genetic diseases, that biological material or the patient himself will be sent abroad for further testing and treatment on the burden of the Republic Fund, which is now entering legislation, which will be supported by humanitarian donations. The second part of this law applies in the way that detection will be carried out and that only the examination and possible treatment of these children will be organised, with much said, I will not repeat myself, by forming a centre for clinical genetics and rare diseases that will be added to territorial health institutions, by having a genetic counselling facility in secondary health institutions that will only come to the conclusion that there may be a possibility of a genetic disease and sending such patients to a further study. What's also important in this law is that we have a duty to the patient, in this case pregnant women in prenatal because we have both prenatal and postnatal diagnostics, to illustrate the possibility of a possible unwanted accent in this study. I'm primarily thinking about amniocentesis that's pretty widespread with us, which detects certain malformations and certain diseases, because it's a mildly invasive method after which, at a minimum, a spontaneous abortion can occur. So we're obliged to present it to a pregnant woman who's going to go into that interrogation. Another thing that's the same important thing that we've been dealing with so far, which is that in the course of the trial, if we find out about the half of the child, he should not be told to the family, only if the disease is related to the sex, such as haemophilia, which is related to the male sex. Why do I say that? It's very important because it's happened that under some genetic examination in one of the private clinics, I'm going to be forgiven for half a child in Belgrade. That intervention at the time, I know, cost me 400 euros. It was used in a situation where people wanted to choose gender. That's the kind of thing I have to sanction absolutely now, and that kind of thing is now inadmissible, and we can't let it go on in any way. One more thing I will end up with, which my colleague Djukic Dejanovic was talking about, and this is about the doctor's criminal responsibility, whether or not a therapist should exist. It is also regulated in this law that there is a certain responsibility and there must be a responsibility. I'm going to give you an example, which is that if there is a suspicion, then if a patient reports to a gynecologist, it's the United States of America. in one of the states of America, if there is a suspicion of mongolodysm or Down syndrome, which is absolutely and 100% detectable of amniocentesis, and the doctor has not taken the appropriate procedure and failed to do so, according to their legislation, he is obliged to pay for life support to that child. This may seem harsh, but in any case, it obliges the doctor to approach the study with full security and the possibility of giving birth to children with genetic malformations. From all of this, I hope that we will no longer deal with politics and that all MPs in this House will vote in favour of this extremely human, good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20594	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jasmina Obradovic, and let Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20595	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, fellow MPs, respected parents, the bill, the law of Zoya that is before us today, after discussion and adoption, will be a law that recognises and protects all children who suffer from severe diseases in Serbia, whose diagnosis is mostly a long and difficult process. Most often or often it is not even possible to diagnose in our hospitals, and such children or biological material should be sent abroad. So, unless it is possible to do so in Serbia, this law would oblige health care institutions to address at least three world centres that are estimated to be able to establish a diagnosis, because the basic prerequisite for someone to have the right to treatment and everything that only treatment implies must be diagnosed. Dear citizens, esteemed parents, fighters for their children, but also for all the sick children, this is what I want to make an introduction to what I want to look especially about. I have no doubt at all whether it is necessary to adopt this bill and I myself am one of the signatories of a session where this bill would be found on the agenda. I signed it when the bill was not only formally proposed, but when it was fundamentally agreed with the competent institutions, primarily the Ministry and discussed it on the assembly committees and thus received a realistic basis for discussion in the Assembly. It is hypocritical when government participants in previous years, and now MPs, doing nothing to solve the problem of undiagnosed diseases, honor our responsibility for why this law has not been on the agenda of the assembly session before. Gentlemen, for the sake of the public to whom we answer, the truths that we are obliged to defend and you and we know that the laws are that. Law proposals do not discuss before real conditions are created for their application, which requires, above all, a certain procedure. What is our reality today? Years destroyed, robbed, robbed, returned, years of carelessness taken care of. It would be a long list to list all wrongly done or missed. Dear citizens, esteemed parents, it is devastating that the problem of invisible patients as you called them does not exist since yesterday, it has been present in our society for many years. The problem of those suffering from severe and undiagnosed diseases existed in the years in which state powers, masters of all things, among other things, will repeat what my colleague Blazic said, I will repeat that it would remain remembered, and the health minister himself went abroad for surgery or treatment of course on the cost of the state. At that time, there was no interest in this problem and no desire to change anything. Dear citizens, esteemed parents, the fact that in October of the month a Fund for the Treatment of Diseases has been established which cannot be treated in Serbia, and as a predecessor to the adoption of this law, and the adoption of the Law of Zoya and the inclusion of the Republic Health Fund provide for real conditions for the application of the law, but in this respect the seriousness and responsibility of this Government and its prime minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, not to miss out, and not to say that since October, 13 of these cases have already been addressed by the Fund for questioning or treatment abroad. I will now take the opportunity to inform you, dear colleagues, but also many citizens in Serbia, I come from the suburban settlement of Novi Sad, from Futoga, a place where one of the children in Serbia who has no diagnosis lives. The mother of this child is a great fighter for her child, a hell that she went through with the loss of one child and the re-experience of the disease without the diagnosis of another child, deserve not only the compassion and words of comfort, but the concrete help of the state. But not through individual humanitarian actions, but through an orderly health system that needs to be reformed and how someone said it today strengthens. I guarantee that this will be done, so the health system will be reformed and this is the government's responsibility, headed by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. In the end, I want to wish, in my personal name, for the parents of the sick children that faith and strength to endure in the fight for the health of their children, but all the other children do not leave and that the Government and all of us together, gentlemen MPs, will absolutely support them in that. Zoya's law is only the first step but a serious shift in justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20596	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, and let Ljiljana Beronja be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20597	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, law-proposing fellow Milisavljevic, respected parents of Zoja, is now very important to us a law relating to rare diseases. Since there is unity among all MPs as far as this law is concerned, I will only mention some aspects of this law that I consider to be better quality and which, in any case, contribute to the improvement of health, particularly those suffering from rare diseases. This is primarily the human aspect, and the human aspect refers to the fact that the entire social community must respond adequately and be involved in helping and supporting people with rare diseases. Another aspect of this law is the health aspect, which means that full health care must be provided to those with rare illnesses. As we have already heard, there are 450,000 people, or five people, per 10,000 inhabitants. Except for the health aspect that applies to this number, I'd like to add one more thing here. There are 450,000 people here who have suffered from rare diseases. It's not just those people. This is a disease that affects, not only children, which are at the highest percentage of these 450,000 people, which is about 85%, but this number mostly needs to be multiplied by two, and these are the parents of these children. So this is about rare diseases that actually affect individuals, or patients, but also affect complete families. It's this social aspect and somewhere I'm deeply convinced that these diseases fall into medical-social diseases. I also want to highlight this legal aspect, and the legal aspect is significant because for the first time we get a legal framework where people, or persons, are actually treated in a legal context, are suffering from rare diseases. In particular, I would like to emphasise Article 31 of the Law, and it is in fact essential for the fact that unless a patient has been diagnosed within six months, a patient can be treated abroad, on the basis of the funding of the Republic Health Fund, and a decision by the competent minister. Except for the diagnosis, which is very important for rare diseases, I also consider it a very significant and preventive work, i.e. providing timely and timely information to individuals, families, married couples, where there is already some risk of genetic diseases, of hereditary diseases. I also find it very important to provide prenatal information and to give birth to a healthy offspring. What I also want to point out is that this government, headed by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, has huge democratic potential. This huge democratic potential also has the Ministry of Health, led by Mr. Loncar, who recognized that it is not important who is the legislator, but is an important element, and is the essence of improving the health policy and the health care of the person, especially children who suffer from rare diseases. Of course, it is the patient's interest, the interest of our citizens, and there is no doubt that the SNS in voting day will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20598	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Ljiljan Beronj, and let the Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20599	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, here is another law that will be voted by all MPs. Of course, there will probably be little corrections through the amendments submitted by the government and some other MPs. I guess this time they won't even be held back. However, I cannot say no to the satisfaction that this very congregation meeting, to which I belong, is discussing this law and what will be passed by such a law, because, as my fellow predecessors have said, this problem is definitely not since 1 May of last year, when this assembly assembly assembly actually began its work. A lot has been speculated in the media about the reasons why this law has been removed from the emergency procedure, although the minister has repeatedly stated that it is only a technical procedure, not that the law will not be passed. I can responsibly claim that there is really no MP and position and opposition in this House that has been and has been from the beginning against its adoption. It should've really been a media lynch lately. From what I've noticed, we haven't advertised anything, it's enough just to read headlines in the paper, and no articles were needed and social media were monitored. As a pediatrician, maybe I can understand a little bit better what's going on in these situations. If you're just looking at the parents who bring the child to us, and once we doctors say, ordinary pneumonia, I say to the ordinary side of this diagnosis that we're dealing with right now, and you see panic in their eyes. While you're sending them to routine RTG and lab diagnostics, see what's going on with them. Then you can imagine what a parent who faces such difficult problems looks like. If, with all this, there is a rapid deterioration of the clinical picture of the disease, which threatens the fatal outcome, and with all that, the parent doesn't really know what's going on with the child, then you can imagine what agony is for parents. There's no political party that I think can be put in front of this kind of thing. We may be able to calculate somewhere, but I'm sure this is the kind of thing we don't. The public had to know about that the moment the Fund for the Treatment of Children abroad was formed for those diseases that we cannot treat, that the next problem, that this problem would come to the agenda. And now, in September, about, as far as I have information, thirteen children from this fund went to treatment, so they're about to implement these two things. Maybe we think he has a lot of kids with this problem. I don't mean specifically the number of children who are sick, but the number of children where the diagnosis isn't set. No, but, of course, even if it were a single child, the weight of their condition is really such that we have to deal with this problem seriously and very responsibly. Although we are aware that sometimes it will not help, we are obliged to give our parents everything that can be provided. Of course, if we can't do it with us, then we have to do it abroad. In the end, we owe it to parents when we have to tell them the worst truth, to give them the truth. Finally, with all due respect to Mrs Bojana Mirovljevic and her wife, which, even after her personal tragedy, had the strength to think about other children in one way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20600	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Nevena Stojanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsic, the People's MPs of the New Party will, of course, vote for the adoption of a law called Zoya's Law. In light of our debate in this assembly, I want to set aside three things that I think may contribute to the debate on this bill. The first thing, gentlemen, I believe there is not a single MP sitting here who participates in the debate without knowing that politics is basically about solving the problems we face in a political community. Zoya's law, gentlemen, is in my opinion, to say, they feel an appropriate response here to one of the problems we face in our political community, and it's very important, I think it's clear in the National Assembly here and it says, this is an approach, this is politics, because politics is about solving the problems we're facing. That's one thing, gentlemen. Secondly, there is no dilemma for me to commend and congratulations on, above all, the humanity which, in the fight for the adoption of this law, has been consistently and consistently managed by one of us, one MP in this National Assembly, and this is the MP, Professor Dusan Milisavljevic. Dear gentlemen, the action of Professor Milisavljevic in the case of the preparation of this bill is an example that all MPs can serve as an example in legislative work. I want to say here, every honor of the People's Parliament, Professor Milisavljevic and before any other MP here, before the President of the Republic, before any minister and before the Prime Minister in this assembly of applause deserves Professor Milisavljevic to join in preparing this law and I will applaud to you Professor Milisavljevic. Third thing, gentlemen, the debate on this bill should serve, I think, for all of us here, first of all, the MPs as a cause and for a broad debate or if not for a broader debate, and for at least one consideration of the necessary further reforms in the health sector. In that sense, gentlemen, and with the hope that we will all follow this one example together that is very good, I want to set aside three things for which I am ready to fight and which I have signed myself in a single health sector reform programme in our country, gentlemen. First of all, I think that we should work in this National Assembly, which is the most representative body and legislative body in our country, to create conditions for our country not to be in the health sense of unsecured persons. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, whether someone is employed or unemployed, let's try to get to the point where there are no unsecured faces. We in the New Party have foreseen some mechanisms for this, we have concrete proposals for measures that can be achieved and I believe that it would be very useful for the President-in-Office, Mr Arsic, to discuss it here as well. Another thing, gentlemen, and in light of this bill, I think it's very important that we create conditions here, and we create these conditions, it's not government, it's a legislative body. To ensure a slightly stronger control of the spending of funds. Well, we've had a situation here to spill from hollow to empty, from the Health Fund that's poor, which is said to be -- it's full of money, to spill into retirement, to say -- that's justifiable because there's money here. There isn't, gentlemen. We need more control. The third thing, gentlemen, has been found, based on research, that one of our citizens' greatest fears is fear of inability to treat. Dear gentlemen, in our programme we have foreseen measures, concrete steps that lead to the creation of conditions for the existence of free primary, health care. Let's at least remove one fear as one kind of obstacle to all the citizens of our country, gentlemen. With pleasure, Zoran Zivkovic and I will vote for Zoya's law, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20602	Five minutes, Mr. Pavicevic. Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nevena Stojanovic, and let the MP Marijan Risticevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20603	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the brave parents of Zoya, the JS MP group has already declared by this law in the afternoon, and the authorised representative has said that in the day to vote, we will support this law, but not only because it is human but because we believe it is a natural step in solving the problem, at least facilitating the lives of people who face these rare diseases and their families. I've been thinking about giving up the discussion since at least the material I've prepared has already been mentioned here several times, or the data has already been made available, but the need to get up and tell the truth that I am, unfortunately, among those citizens for whom this group of people has been invisible, indeed. Unfortunately, there had to be a big tragedy for a little girl in order for this society to become aware of the problems that people with rare diseases face. I hope that after this law is passed, this group of people will have their own name and character and that the state will continue to work on improving the lives of the same. What we could do next to this law in order to improve this area, which is that the Ministry of Health is making an effort not only to have these children but all the children who have been ill get adequate health care, the diagnosis, to intensify international co-operation in the field of research, to work on spreading awareness of rare diseases, to make international day of rare diseases an important item in the calendar, to create opportunities for these groups of people to network together to support each other and to be recognizable in society. What's more important is to point out that I hope that the ministry will work on solving technical problems, such as enabling a food probe, because by getting ready for this session, I realized that these are the things that are necessary for people with these problems to have a limitless life. For the end, since, I wish I could speak for my parents, but since I'm still unfulfilled as a parent, but I want to speak for all the young people who are just planning their family, I just want to say one thing, to propose this law and to the brave parents of Zoya, which is – thank you. Thank you because young people who just want to come true as parents will now be able to sleep more carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20604	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this proposal is my signature, regardless of the campaign against me, so that tomorrow, in accordance with the business procedure, we can adopt amendments and therefore adopt the law as a whole, I will give up my discussion with the permission of the chairman-in-Office tomorrow to say something broader, given that I recommend that other speakers give up in order to complete this discussion in five to four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20606	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before the opening of the original search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary group, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is proposed by Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20607	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the MPs, since I think I have a minute to give the final word, right? I would like to express once again the satisfaction of today's debate and today's day, because we have shown one maturity that we all stand together behind the most sensitive and most difficult problems of our society, and these are seriously ill children and these are children who have been suffering from rare diseases and children who have been invisible to the state of Serbia, the Republic Fund and the Ministry of Health for years. This should be an honor to all of us, to all MPs and to this Ministry of Health, because we have adopted and will adopt a civil law, a law which unfortunately came from a family that lost Zoya, from a family that triggered the avalanche of a positive energy, so that the other children who are currently suffering from rare diseases would be seen and visible, not invisible, that children who will be born and have similar problems, have security in the state of Serbia and have safety in this law and have safety in treating and making a diagnosis. I just want to share once again one great joy that we have discussed today in the direction of a human, good decision to make of this law. I also thank the parents of little Zoja, Bojana Mirovljevic and Danil, who are very brave, only a week after her funeral entered the fight for Zojin law and for a law that will help our children who suffer from rare diseases.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-22-0.u20608	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the principled investigation into the draft law. We'll continue work tomorrow at 3:00 and 50 minutes.
