ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27401	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by celebrating to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, yesterday and today, are celebrating St. George, or Djurdjevdan, to congratulate the Christian glory, and I have also on my personal behalf and on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament's Club on the issue of anti-urban protection. First of all, please either the Secretary-General of the Government or one of the resolution ministers, whether the Minister of the Interior or the Minister for State Administration and local self-government, but it is urgent that citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who fear every day whether there will be a city or there will be no city, resolve this problem. To remind all of us, as well as Serbian citizens, that the official defence season from the city began on 15 April and lasted until 15 October 2015. But I'd like to remind you that this is the first year, at least since I've remembered, here it is in May, and unfortunately it hasn't even been signed with the shooters who've been hired at the anti-urban stations, or they're still not hired yet. How much of the information we have so far been available that the Serbian Government's Emergency Station for the Government of the Republic of Serbia decided by the end of February that due to the Public Sector Employment Prohibition Regulation, contracts can be signed with the shooters to begin this season on April 15th. Unfortunately, and for this reason I am also asking questions to the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government that this decision was to be implemented, the decision has not been implemented until today and we have unfortunately a completely paradoxical situation that cities and municipalities have bought anti-urban missiles from their funds. Here, we have an example of the town of Cačka, which in the last 15 days has acquired 350 anti-building missiles, which are now in some dumps, and they can't be divided because of the lack of contract with the shooters. The bigger the problem is that last night, there was already a city all over the Central Forest. The city was also in Lazarevec, on the edges of the municipality of Arangelovac and Topol. Unfortunately, we who, here I come from Topola, also bought anti-urban missiles, but which are in the depot of the Bukulje radar centre, cannot unfortunately be used in any way. We are witnessing as MPs that the proposal for a new anti-urban protection law has already entered the Serbian Parliament here. He was adopted by the government about 20 days ago, but we have no time as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, nor as MPs to wait for a new law to be passed. Because if this new law were to be passed in the next 10 to 15 days, it cannot be applied to this season. So I ask the Ministers of Resorship and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to deal with these problems urgently and that the radar centres, then the launch stations and the shooters are on full alert, because you see the oscillations in the temperatures and the situation that the city can be literally every day. Honestly, I'm asking everyone responsible. Yesterday I was in a position, we're all here yesterday and today for fame, the main theme for all hosts is exactly what happens to anti-urban protection. Guys, let's think about it, 'cause if this goes on like this, we're gonna have millions of damages. As of last year, we have not yet recovered as a nation or as a state from natural disasters. We had since the floods both in 2014 and in 2013 millions of damages. It's simply because of someone's negligence that we, behold, can't run the anti-building protection system for a month because we thank the permission to use the hydrometeorological institute to get this number of shooters across Serbia, who need to sign contracts, perform medical examinations and start with the city's defence system. Here, with this ending, I think this has been enough to distract this subject, so that it no longer hesitates and reacts as quickly as possible so that huge material damage does not occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27402	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27403	Dear President, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer a question, namely to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, and the issue concerns the arrival of the German company Tenis, which plans to build 20 pig farms in Serbia, from which five farms are planned to start in Vojvodina and that is in Banat, Zrenjanin, Vrsac, Kovin, Kikindi and Pancheva. In late April, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the government of the Republic of Serbia and this German leader in pigmeat production, resulting from Prime Minister Vukic's visit to Germany last September and an obvious agreement on this investment, as the prime minister announced these days a signing for the longest month of the contract between the Republic of Serbia and this producer. It is an investment of 420m euros in the production of a million and a half pigs, and for the start, as I have stated, in Banat to build five of these mentioned farms, where 750,000 pigs would be grown. The newspaper article, which was actually my reason to ask this question, states that each farm will employ 150 people, which means a total of 3,000 workers when all 20 farms are built. The Germans are also planning to rent agricultural land, which is particularly interested in couples in Vojvodina, but they do not want a lease for three to five years, as it is now possible, so the Agricultural Land Act is likely to be amended. It is also said that it may also produce genetically modified foods based on genetically modified organisms, which are banned from us. In one word, we appear to have a new "lex specialis" coming to please the foreign investor. This is all information from the media, and I don't know if the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mrs Boskovic, has been informed of the details of this agreement, but from where it is located, the LSV Parliament Club expects it to answer these questions. I think because of this job, the Ministry will come into conflict of interest, because there is an expression of a mistake that has been made by bringing the environment together with the polluters sectors, such as energy and the environment, agriculture and the environment, transport and the environment, where ministers often come into conflict of interest, which shows the experience of other countries in the accession process. So I want to ask a few questions, which we expect to get an answer, so that we know in time what we are up to, that is, what we're going to do as a commitment to the contract, so that we don't have a reason or an affair that we're going to be dealing with in some future period. So the first question I want to ask is whether it will allow couples in Vojvodina, or in the region where these farms are planned, to grow food for these farms as co-operatives and what work force profile will be employed on these farms, i.e. will they hire an educated and professional workforce, because we know that we have both agronomists and technicians on employment bureaus, or will they only work as auxiliary workers, or, as you would say, as pigs? Then what is planned with the barn and the wastewaters from the farm, or the wasp, because it's huge amounts of this liquid pollution? Just as an orientation to say, according to the standard of one pig, up to 8.6 liters of polluted water per day is created, which is, when calculated in final size, about six million gallons of waste water per day. It's highly polluted wastewater, primarily nitrogen compounds. What's to be done with that wastewater? And now there are farms in Vojvodina that drop waste water into canals, rivers, pollute both underground and surface waters, and Banat is usually a region where we have a problem with arsenic in drinking waters. Also, given the capacity of these farms, they are obliged to have an integrated permit. I ask the question – when will the procedure begin to obtain this authorisation, because today there are 63 farms in Serbia, of which there are 25 pig farms in Vojvodina, which are subject to the obligation to obtain this licence? So far, no farm on Serbia's territory, which was otherwise subject to this permit, has obtained. I also ask the question – how will dead animals be taken care of, that is, given the capacity, which calories will be able in Serbia to accept these dead animals?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27404	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27405	I think, given the shortness of time, this is very important, to respond to the Ministry in time, so that we know what awaits us in the conclusion of the contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27406	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27407	Thank you, Your Honor. Today I would use the right to question the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, more like a kind of application and appeal. Namely, my question is also to appeal to the prime minister, can he use his influence, as Prime Minister, for Serbia to sign a convention banning the use of tape ammunition? On today, 16 years ago, NATO's pact forces bombed Serbia, among other things, a tape ammunition was dropped on the town of Nis and 15 people were killed on the occasion. Today, 16 years later, Serbia, according to experts, remains at six million square meters of its surface, is a space suspected of having a tape ammunition on it. In 2008, it started in the world with the signing and ratification of the Convention on the Ban of Casset Ammunition. Serbia was one of the countries that launched this convention. To this day, 116 countries have signed and 89 ratified this convention. Serbia is not. The Convention prohibits the use, production, storage and transfer of tape ammunition and obliges signatories to ratify the ammunition that owns the tape destruction within eight years, in accordance with international standards for the protection of public health and the environment, and obliges signatories to take over the cleaning of the rest of the tape ammunition within ten years. The second obligation of the countries that have signed this Convention is to provide protection to victims of tape ammunition, to all persons who have suffered physical or psychological injury, economic loss, social marginalisation and a significant obstacle to the exercise of their rights due to the use of tape ammunition. On March 6th, I asked the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs whether and when the Republic of Serbia would sign this convention. The foreign ministry responded within ten days that it was not in their jurisdiction, and the defence minister responded after almost a month and a half. He said that the Ministry of Defence, I will read to you, and the Serbian Army plans to acquire modern weapons and military equipment that would replace the tape ammunition. After providing money for the modernisation and procurement of modern weapons, the possibility of granting consent to the Ministry of Defence for the signing of the Convention on Casset Ammunition will be considered. These reasons have existed since 2008, and that is, in my knowledge, the only reason the Republic of Serbia has not signed this convention. I believe that these are not enough reasons and I believe that the loss to the Republic of Serbia and its citizens is unless this convention is signed. Namely, the signing of this Convention, which, among other things, highlights the right of each Contracting State to seek and receive assistance in meeting the obligations set out in the provisions of the Convention, would allow Serbia to receive the funds needed to clear these six million square metres. Some average price for clearing the ground is 2 euros per square metre, so it is 12m euros, for which the Republic of Serbia, I believe, has no money today, because of the difficult situation. But we can, there are countries that have and provide help, but until we sign this convention, we can't use that help. These days, a group of 15 deminers from the Pala came back to Nis about 150 thousand square meters of suspicious territory to check whether, perhaps underground, there were lag behind the tape ammunition data at a depth of up to half a metre.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27408	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27409	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27410	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27411	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, my parliamentary question is – where is Minister Bratislava Gasic? My parliamentary question has been addressed to all members of the government. Gasic can also engage himself in solving the mystery, however, he has already shown in the previous days and especially in the nights that he cannot safely at any time confirm exactly the location he is located, so he declared that he is in two places at the same time. But let's not let him get involved in the search for himself, let other members of the government do it. The reason I'm asking this question is that a court caller is unable to make an appeal to the court, Minister Gasic. He was sued by MP Dragan Sutanovac for the lies Mr Gasic also told on the board in the Serbian Parliament, but also in many media, that Minister Sutanovac, at the time of his defence minister, bought some listening equipment, which was later found to be false. Namely, Mr Sutanovac received a notice from Judge Ljiljana Vucinic to submit copies, a reply from 15 April 2015 and 25 March 2015: "We inform you that we have failed to hand over to the defendant Bratislava Gasic through the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia or through the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 2 March 2015. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” In addition, there are letters signed by V.D. Secretary of the Ministry of Defence Colonel Nebojsa V. Nikolic and Secretary General Novak Nedic. First, v.d. The secretary of the defence ministry tells the court's call to try to contact Gasic through the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Secretary-General of the Government, also a very vivid person, informs Belgrade's First Basic Court that the defendant, Bratislava Gasic, is not at the government's address on 11 Germana Street and therefore returns the original documents delivered, or the lawsuit. I can't stress enough how much a problem it is if the state authorities don't know where the Secretary of Defense is, imagine in case of an emergency, someone don't give God war, that we can't get to the Secretary of Defense. Our army has various activities in the coming period, which are under the impression that they are not exactly in line throughout the government. We don't know where our Secretary of Defense is. More or less we don't know, than the state authorities don't know where that man is. I can't tell you how big a problem that is. A much bigger problem, however, is that one thing when someone is hiding from the court and trying to avoid trial, and another thing is that someone for their hiding from the court abuses the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence, is mocking courts in the Republic of Serbia and thus trying to avoid responsibility. To those who will be looking for Minister Gasic, here is a small help, he was not announced yesterday at the VBA meeting, where, before he came to the swearings and insults of the minority physically affecting the Citizens' Protector, until that time, the Director of the VBA co-operated with the Protector of the Guns, on that occasion, before the Protector was forced to leave the meeting due to the inappropriate, inappropriate behaviour of the Minister of Gasic, the Director of the VBA pointed out to Mr Sasa Jankovic and showed the document, which was listed under number 44-123 of 7.10.2014, in which there were detailed statements by the three citizens about the incident in which Prime Minister Alexander Vukovic's brother participated, and he met the Citizens's Guardian with the fact that this document was neither delivered to the prosecution nor the prosecution, nor that the prosecution was informed of the fact that this document at all. So he asks for Minister Gasic to be found, because it is simply necessary for the functioning of a country, he should immediately join the DS's request that the moment he is found and replaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27412	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27413	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer the question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the High Representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the succession of Prof. Ethinski, related to the obstruction of the implementation of a very important interstate agreement called the Vienna Succession Agreement, by the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. As the public is known in 2001, a concession agreement was signed in Vienna by representatives of the successor states of the former Yugoslavia. The agreement has seven annexes to regulate the division of diplomatic and consular representations, financial archives, passports, archive buildings, etc. However, for half a million expelled Serbs living in Serbia from Bosnia and Herzegovina, namely the Federation of BiH and Croatia, and for more than 100,000 Serbian citizens from Croatia and BiH, the key thing is that almost 15 years are being obstructed by the official Zagreb and Sarajevo, Annex 7 of that agreement, or Annex G, which is called – private property and acquired rights. The annex says very clearly that all citizens, but also legal entities, must be protected and returned to the rights they had on 31.12.1990, and all contracts concluded during the war, under pressures and threats, must be declared void. Parliament and the successor state of the former Yugoslavia ratified the agreement by March 2004 and in June 2004 the agreement came into force officially. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, according to the constitutions of other countries, successors of the former Yugoslavia, according to international law, ratified interstate agreements have stronger power than domestic laws. But official Zagreb has persistently obstructed the implementation of the agreement. I only mention some of the many problems facing half a million expelled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH, as well as nearly 200,000 Serbs living in Croatia now, nearly 100,000 Serbs living in the Federation of BiH. It's a question of subtracting 40,000 housing rights. About 50,000 pensioners demand their remaining outstanding pensions, a total of 71 pensions per pensioner. In Croatia, 800,000 catastrian parcels have been kidnapped since the end of the war. I repeat, 800,000 cadastar plots of agricultural land. More than 10,000 Serbian houses were torn down in classical terrorist actions during the war on Croatian cities where there were no acts of war. Several thousand expelled Serbs seek dinar foreign exchange savings. Several thousand expelled Serbs demand that contracts concluded under pressures and threats be suspended during the war and their homes returned to them. Several thousand Serbs demand that contracts be annulled on the sale of their houses to a system of fake contracts or a double contract system where the Agency for Commercial Registers was a far larger amount in the contract while they received a contract with a far smaller amount, and the difference remained with officials in the Agency and intermediaries. What's crucial is that we ask the Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of Finance to deal with both the succession and the Professor. Ethinski, the Serbian government's high representative for the succession, to raise the issue of the establishment of interstate commissions to implement Annex G, the Vienna Agreement on Sucession and with the Republic of Croatia and BiH. When these interstate commissions will be set up, on the one hand, and pressured by the official Zagreb and Sarajevo to finally accept the meeting of a permanent and mixed committee to implement the Vienna Agreement on Succession, which was otherwise established under the agreement, which has not been met since September 2009, when the last meeting in Belgrade was held. Without a meeting of the committee, without the establishment of these interstate commissions, the issue of kidnapped property rights of damaged citizens will remain unresolved and we will certainly not be able to speak between Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia can establish the best relations, over the back of half a million Serbs who continue to seek to respect the fundamental European value, and these are human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27414	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Dragojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27415	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for almost three years, I have dealt with the fate of "Avala Film" and made proposals aimed at protecting the interests of culture and citizens of Serbia. I have given hundreds of interviews to the media, two parliamentary issues, the initiation of a session of the Committee on Culture dedicated to the sale of "Avala Film". In the end, I'll admit that in these efforts I've been completely unsuccessful. "Avala film" was sold together with its film fund to an anonymous buyer to the company "Film Road" founded in March 2015. The amount sold for "Avala Film" is 8m euros. The only thing he knows about the buyer three weeks after the sale is that he once had a taxi company based in Pancheva. What you don't know is where did that new film company come from, eight million eras, what are the bank guarantees that could have been given to a new company? Does the amount paid for "Avala Film" originate from the legal flows of money? It would not be bad if these data were perfectly normal to be made available to the public as well as to the name and biography of the customer or customers. That things aren't usually bad when they're transparent witnesses and the following examples. The famous Czech film studio Barandevo was sold to a transparently large Slovak concert called Moravia Style. The studio works and makes a profit. The Bulgarian film studio "The Boyana Film" was sold to a well-known American producer in a transparent manner. The studio is doing excellent work and brings a significant amount of tax to the Bulgarian state. With us, the "Avala Film" once the biggest studio in the Balkans was sold to a company that was obviously founded just to cover for the complete non-transparentity of sales in order to hide real customers and their intentions. Let's talk about intentions. The market price of construction land on which Avala Film is located is 100m euros. You'll admit a lot of obvious intent, more cost-effective than the profession of making films in which an anonymous customer in the past 45 days has hardly arrived for affirmation. I'll be back in a moment for 2007. Fourteen cinemas, "Belgrade Film", whose value in squares of business space was estimated at 57m euros, were sold for nine million. The new owner announced a new era of digitization, a modernization of cinemas. Today there is no movie, and in this new era, cinemas are supermarkets, nightclubs, or ruins. "Belgrade film" was bought because of business space, "Avala film" for building land. I will remind myself of the proposal that I have been trying to affirm in recent years, that the state write down the modest debt "Avala film" to make land conversion and sell it in a fair and market tender so that several tens of millions of euros can be obtained for Serbian culture and from them to build an opera, a modern gallery, restore dozens of cinemas and homes of culture, in 70% of Serbia whose citizens have none of the only cultural content in their midst. We've lost all our sales easily and silently without a lot of comments. The intolerable ease of this sale, the lectures of tens of millions of euros to an anonymous tycoon in hand, may be saying that we do not deserve opera, or modern gallery, or other cultural objects that could be built and restored, but we deserve to know at least the following. It is quite reasonable to express the skepticism of the fact that the company founded a month and a half ago with the founding capital of 60,000 dinars has eightm euros to make the purchase. This fact is causing an additional chill if we remind the previous government that one of the biggest investors, Darko Saric, has made numerous privatisations of Serbian companies with money from, least of all, the gray zone. I would like the public to see that it is not again the means of origin that is similar to that of many of Saric's privatisations. That's why I'm asking the Privatisation Agency, did she oversee this sale in terms of all the allegations I've raised? I'm asking the D.A.'s office about organized crime. Is it necessary to conduct investigative actions in front of a criminal investigation in terms of verification, does the allegations that I pointed out have grounds for doubting that a criminal act has been committed? I will note that from the very beginning, since the bankruptcy of "Avala Film" there has been a number of hard-to-explained actions. The business court decided that "Avala Film" whose value is 20m euros went bankrupt due to a debt of three million, not a reorganisation. The reason for bankruptcy is because of the permanent inability to pay off the trustees' obligations is based on evidence that exists in the factory. "Avala film" has been renting the biggest film studio for a decade to record a Revial TV show, and the weekly lease of such a study is between three and four thousand euros a week. At the time of bankruptcy, the account "Avala Film" was plus 88 million dinars. A whole series of illogical, hard-to-explaining moves that rightly raise suspicion that it is a case of heavy corruption. That is why I am also asking the Anti-Corruption Agency to examine the above. Then, I'm also calling on the Agency to stop the money laundering to determine... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27416	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs, Professor Branko Djurović and Professor Vladimir Marinkovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda of the Bill on the Protection of the Rights of the Court within a reasonable period of time. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Nikola Selakovic, Cedomir Backović and Nela Kuburović Assistant Minister of Justice, Goran Matic, Director of the National Security and Protection Council, Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs Neđe Jovanovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Zoran Zivkovic, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordže Stojsic, master Dejan Čapo, Milan Petrovic, Boris Stefanović, Gordana Comić, master Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozinović, Dragan Šutanovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović, Marko Djurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, academicianoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Koraić, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr Blaje Bradić. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The name above Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr Arsic, Honored Minister Selakovic, Honored guest from the Ministry of Justice and, of course, respected guests from the Ministry of Justice. Mr Arsic, I will use an amendment time of five minutes on which I have the right to introduce other MPs and to discuss the content of our 35 amendments, which we have submitted to the bill on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, in order to make, and I have said it in principle, a relatively good bill, gentlemen, even better. My expectation was that Minister Selakovic and his co-worker and his associates would also accept one of our interpretations that the debate on this bill was an opportunity to ensure the agreement and majority in this Assembly and the opposition in this Assembly, about the best way to edit the content of a very important bill. Our expectation was that after we have announced here that this draft law on a reasonable trial wants an effective remedy for the protection of parties against the unwarranted length of court proceedings. After we said in the principle debate here that the unwarranted length of court proceedings is one of the types of violations of the right to a fair trial and that we have to react to this, and after, gentlemen, what we have announced here in principle, that this proposal is to the greatest extent in accordance with the national judicial reform strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018, as well as with European standards Mr Selakovic, we are only accepted one of the 35 amendments submitted, despite the fact that, in my court, we have very well explained all our amendments, we have called here and for certain authority and in legal science, such as the President of the Council of the New Party, Mr Selakovic, Mrs Vesna Rakić Vedelić. For example, gentlemen, here we are, in the case of our amendment to Article 2 where we propose that in the proposal for a law on the protection of the right to a trial within a reasonable period of time, the name above Article 2 changes and votes – bearers of the right to trial within a reasonable period, instead of "the holders of that right", and then we have suggested that whoever reads the content of our amendment will understand that we consider our proposal to be more appropriate, more meaningful, more complete than what the Government's proposal is, and in a very precise statement, we have explained it very precisely, will receive an answer from the Government, or from Minister Selakovic, that the Government proposes to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and here was the explanation of the respected gentlemen. I, Minister Selakovic really, as a national MP, cannot accept such an explanation, because there is no explanation but there is a finding, Minister Selakovic. Here's what the findings are. It says – the amendment is not accepted because the term is referred to in Article 2. The bill is more appropriate. Well, Mr. Selakovic, when you sent the bill to the Assembly, I think I'm one reasonable man, I understand that you consider it the most appropriate term. I, reading the contents of the law, saw that there was a more appropriate expression. And when I submitted the amendment to Mr Selakovic, I did not put only one sentence – my proposal is more appropriate, because you will assume that I consider my proposal more appropriate. But for what you're saying is a little more appropriate, I expect Mr. Selakovic's explanation of why it's more appropriate, and I didn't get that explanation. Here, you can now get that explanation and Mr Selakovic, if you convince me that your argument is more appropriate now in the course of the debate I can accept, but I cannot accept the explanation in which someone says – this is more appropriate. Well, the assumption is that the one who advocates something thinks it's more appropriate. That reminds me a little of our discussions with Mrs. Widowsky in this National Assembly. We have submitted a large number of amendments to the bill she defended. Several of our amendments were adopted, but those not adopted, Mr. Selakovic, do you know how Mrs. Udovici argued? Here, for example, one amendment says – well, the amendment is not accepted because we consider it more comprehensive. Then for the next unaccepted says – this one is more meaningful, our proposal is more meaningful. Then I look into the dictionary, Mr. Selakovic, and then I find that what's meaningful is the same thing as what's cellifice. Then when you say it's more appropriate, Mr. Selakovic, I don't get an answer, and why do you think it's more appropriate? For example, let me explain a little more. We have finely written in the explanation the term "imposures", is a term used in civil law, while the term "bearers" is a term that can be adequately used for parties in criminal proceedings and in all other proceedings, Minister Selakovic. We have explained why we consider our proposal more appropriate, without realizing that it is more appropriate. We're counting on you as a reasonable man to understand that what we're proposing behind it is our belief that it's more appropriate. So instead of explaining it to us as we explain our amendments, did we give it to Mr. Selakovic, did we explain it nicely? We did. You're sending us one statement instead of an explanation. He says-- this solution is more appropriate. I can't accept it, not even as part of the text. You can now say this to Mr Selakovic – we have made a mistake in not accepting your amendment, therefore, my amendment, which we have not said why we do not accept, so that now that you say in the first sentence, I may have made a mistake, here you are, or we have made a mistake, and then I will now try to correct that mistake and explain to you why I and my associate and my associates think that the term that we have suggested is more appropriate. Then I can answer Mr Selakovic and say – well, I understand that he can be wrong, I can say – and I don't understand that he can be wrong. Here, Mr. Selakovic applauds here and the opposition just to be heard when we have a very good argument. I think the argument for this amendment was good for us and in this text section...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27418	Time, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27419	... And now, Mr. Selakovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27420	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27421	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Pavicevic, so I'm too pleased when these things are controversial in some bill of law. I think the explanation might say it's not good, like you said. One might say - it could have been better, but esteeming your academic honesty, and the fact that you are not, we are colleagues by vocality, so you are not a graduate lawyer, we have tried to make this law so that it can be an ordinary man, a citizen understandably. This is one of the trends, one of the European Commission's demands will also be in the accession process to make legal texts much more understandable to ordinary citizens. The law is not worn, it is right or wrong and it is much easier for a citizen to understand that he is the rightful one, so he has some right, but that he is the rightful one. Of course, you may also not like this explanation, but I say one more time – I am happy that these things are controversial. This isn't essential, this is a technical matter. As you will not step aside from the amendment, neither will I. If I were to accept this, then I would also step away from the termology in the further text of the law. So I'm not going to say that you're wrong, but I'm saying that we're as proponents with this text a little bit more right than you are as an applicant for the amendment, and normally that's the difference, we can say the free term-technical nature. This is not an essential and important thing, but because of the whole text of the law that follows the terminology from the first to the last provision, I think it's better to remain a "rightholder". If you want in our best legal monument when it comes to civilism, it's a general property code for Montenegro, the term "Imamor" or "Imamer of Rights" is now being used. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I answer the word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27422	Mr. Pavicevic, on what grounds? You have no right to a replica. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Right to replica?]] You definitely don't have the right to a replica. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27423	I've applied for the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27424	All right. The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27425	Thank you. I'd like to invite my colleagues not to support this amendment in the voting day. I will try to explain to a layman, since he is not a lawyer, for what reason should he write "holder", not "bearer". He stated in an explanation that the term "imposed" is used more in civil law. Since the process of protection of the right to trial is conducted within a reasonable period of time under the rules of the outsider procedure, it is a little more civil procedure than criminal, so I hope that my fellow lawyers and lawyers will not mind me now, but I am trying to explain to you in such a layman's way because you are not a lawyer, for which reason it is better to stand this name, especially in view of the State Prime Minister and Catastro Act where we have the same thing where we mention the rightholder of property, so we have the Law on State Administration "holder of public authority" and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27426	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I answer the word. Your colleague Pavićević again. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Mrs. Pilja tried to... ) Her interpretation of your presentation is excellent. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: I think she misrepresented me also on the basis of a member... You guys were really teaching, we all understood him, so there's no way someone made a mistake. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27427	The essence of this amendment is to specify who has the right to be tried within a reasonable period of time, and I make this amendment clear, and we have already said from whose point of view of wisdom and experience these amendments are written. Each party shall have the right to trial within a reasonable period of time in a court procedure, including an enforcement procedure. Any participant under the law governing the out-of-party procedure, parties to the administrative dispute, accused of criminal proceedings, and damaged in criminal proceedings, a private prosecutor and damaged as a prosecutor only if they pointed out the property claim, etc. In an explanation of the refusal, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 2 provides for the right to trial within a reasonable period of time for each party to have a court procedure, so the precision proposed by the amendment is not necessary. The minister said earlier using, I think, not exactly the right expressions – ordinary people and ordinary citizens, with the idea that lawyers are probably special people and special citizens, and lawyers are the same people as everyone else, that ordinary citizens should be explained as close as possible to a norm. I think that's precisely why this is a good variant to accept our text because it specifies exactly who has the right to trial within a reasonable period and prevents interpretations that can be arbitrant, which can be like this and which can be the result of unsettled court practice, as we have every day to see by Serbian courts. I think the precise norm is much better for ordinary citizens than a norm that gives the possibility of interpretation. I hope this isn't the final position of the Ministry, or Government, and there's a chance to accept this proposal. If that doesn't happen then we'll be in contradiction because when we suggest one expression you say -- it's not recognizable to ordinary citizens; and here when we offer a formulation that's more recognizable to ordinary citizens, it would be in contradiction with one another, the amendment behind the amendment, it would really be... I see that, you seem to be showing an understanding of this attitude. If so, I'll be grateful. Of course, I understand you're a little bit of a joke with my colleague Pavicevic, he's the best man possible to be in this parliament, which is why he's in a party where I'm also having a romantic vision of what the Serbian Parliament is, for the best of intentions, so that's how it should be understood and I'm glad that part of my colleagues accepted that view and rewarded it with applause, regardless of which parties they come from. So, I expect you to accept this amendment after all, and now I have to tell you something that is the same about law and government and the state of this country and one brutality that has grown lately in this country, which is the information I just received from the Emergency Centre of Serbia, that this morning by the people in the hoods the State Secretary of Education, Mr. Milovan Shuvakov, was beaten up, and that is a very bad message. It would be good for parliament to get information about what happened, how it happened. The other day we read about the Minister of Culture, something like that, and regardless of the circumstances and reasons, it's a very bad thing for civil servants in Serbia, public figures to get beat up in the middle of the street, probably when they go to their jobs, and I think the current government and parliament should do something about Serbia not being a country where such things happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27428	Two minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of an independent MP. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27429	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to explain further why the amendment has not been accepted. Therefore, if you look closely at the text of the proposed Article 2, you will see, in addition to the principle of the right to trial within a reasonable period, each party in a court procedure. So, it is said -- each party in court proceedings, covering all kinds of court proceedings. Why is it deliberately said here: “What includes the executive procedure”? Because it applies not only to the executions carried out by the court, but also to the perpetrators. That's why there's an executive procedure here. The defendant is a party in criminal proceedings. The administrative dispute is kind of a court case. The administrative dispute may be conducted exclusively before the Administrative Court, may not be brought before a certain public authority holder, such as, in this case, the perpetrator to whom the execution is entrusted or, in some cases, by law, the perpetrator is solely competent to carry out the execution in certain cases. And that's the only reason. The law has its own system. I think it's bad sometimes. So there's a logic here why it's written like this. I'm not saying you're wrong, but I think it's more precise and better, more appropriate. Absolutely, this is a situation where you can say that it's something more appropriate and that it's something that's more acceptable to a legislative or nomotechnical methodology. So the law has its own language. We can find ourselves tomorrow in a situation where some other law applies to this law, then it's better to make it as concrete as possible. That's the reason. So there's no essential thing this is one logical-technical thing again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27430	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27431	In the principle debate, my colleague Pavicevic and I said that this is a good law, first of all, because for the first time an important life area is being normised, which means that it is precisely the right to trial within a reasonable period and therefore we have generally supported this bill, but we also said that everything that is good can be very good, and it is excellent, and on that side are addressed to our amendments. So I can understand that we can do it anyway, but it seems to me we've lost some kind of thread, which is the visibility of laws to ordinary citizens, people who aren't lawyers. I'm sure for any law, whatever it is written in any style, lawyers will find common language, they'll understand, but I think the laws are written for people who don't have legal knowledge. Your argument for Mr Pavicevic's previous amendment, that this is more appropriate for understanding ordinary citizens should also be passed on to the next member, which is this, where again, by preciseing who has the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, that this legal matter is approaching the citizens. I understand that you can do it one way or the other, but it seems to me that you are losing consistency in the explanation, which is the consequence of inconsistencies in the writing of the law, because in one case, what is more clear to the citizens, and in the other case is better what is the general norm. I don't think that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27432	The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27433	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I suggest that this amendment be not adopted for a reason, under number one, by the Government. Under number two, it is not true that the word "supervisory" and "intelligent" is the same word as one of my predecessors said. Let me say that the gentleman who quotes from the dictionary is wrong, because he has a dictionary with one book, and I'm nine, so I refer him to book number five since 1971, Serbian Mother, book number five, so he sees what it means to be "cellistic" and book number six of the Serbian Mother, on page 770, so he'll see that it's not the same thing, but I have no intention of particularly explaining it. You're right, Mr. Minister. I'm not a lawyer, but there's legal logic and that the system is passing through the law. In my opinion, the government is absolutely right about that. I recommend to the gentleman that he take a six-book dictionary, so it'll certainly be a different explanation. However, speaking of a reasonable trial, thank you, Mr. Minister, for finally giving that law to this National Assembly. I will quote a 2011 Citizens' Protector report, which, on page eight, states, that this is one of the major problems of the trial within a reasonable time and six last reports I read, so until 2012, it kept repeating itself. So, where were my two previous speakers? Why, then, did they not encourage this Law to be tried within a reasonable period of time and define it? I think they bear, if nothing, at least part of their moral responsibility for not putting it in this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27434	My colleague Pavicevic, on what basis do you want the word? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. He didn't mention you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes, said the doctor. He didn't say. The 3rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27435	Dear President, Mr Minister, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, we have proposed in Article 3 of this Law, that is, the part relating to legal means which protects the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, a replacement of attitude 2 with three new positions, which reads: "In the decision-making process, which protects the right to trial within a reasonable time, the court is obliged to act urgently. Procedures protecting the right to trial within a reasonable period of time shall have a decision-making championship. The party shall not pay a court fee in proceedings in which the right to trial is protected within a reasonable period of time. “ In this amendment, we have transposed Article 2. In order to stress that the legal means required to speed up the procedure must be urgently decided, and that these procedures have a decision-making championship. Therefore, the legal means must be decided within a reasonable period. This amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the proposed member is more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27436	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27437	In Article 4, in the section relating to the criteria for the assessment of the duration of the trial within a reasonable period, we have proposed an amendment to this article, so that, when deciding on legal means to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, all the circumstances of the proceedings are respected, and in particular the complexity of the case in a factual and legal sense, nature and type of proceedings or investigations, the overall duration of the proceedings and the conduct of the court, etc. In this description of the member, we listed the tax on everything that was stated in the proposed article in a series. In the explanation that we have given, we have stated that, in the light of the draft law, the proposed text, the amendment also indicates that Article 4, whose correct understanding will be of paramount importance in the application of this law, which, among other things, indicates a call for Article 4, in a series of essential provisions. 10, 18, 30 and 31. This article was rejected because, as it were, it was clearly and accurately explained in what the government had proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27438	Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry of Justice, allow me, President Gojkovic, to condemn this physical attack on the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education, Mr Shuvakov. We have often debated here, we have not understood many things, but violence must not be tolerated in our country or anywhere else. We will always fight, gentlemen, against the brutalization of society and the physical attack on any individual, and it is particularly important to point out when it comes to some high-ranking officials, especially a man who is very engaged in the Ministry of Education, as it is, Mr. Milovan Shuvakov. We have also submitted an amendment to Article 4. The bill and I think, Mr. Selakovic, that you should accept this amendment. The point is that we suggest that you get stuck in Article 4 and delete the word “I hold on, ” because we consider it too high. You say, Minister Selakovic, that the word is not too high, but the proposed formulation is more precise, given that there are more elements in the above provision. If I were to follow your logic, Minister Selakovic, then I could conclude that the term "I hold" could then be used multiple times in Article 4, so that after the first listing we have "I hold", then after the second listing we have "I call" and after the third dial to have "I hold" and then you, Mr Selakovic, would be consistent with the argument. So, I think, if we delete the word "I do", that it will be the most precise formulation of the content of Article 4 of this Bill and I think that you should, right here to tell Mrs Gojkovic that you also accept this amendment of the New Party MP, Mr Selakovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27440	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27441	Thank you. You will allow me, too, because something has been said that can be disturbing for the whole public and it is about one of the colleagues I know, it is not about the Secretary of State, it is about the assistant minister of education, science and technological development, Mr. Milovan Shuvakov. The truth is, this morning there was an attack on him, a man was attacked when he went to work, and it was something that deserved an absolute condemnation to the entire public, whether we belong to the government or to the opposition. These aren't the times and this isn't the state where these things can happen and tolerate themselves. If that happens to a high-ranking civil servant in a position, then what can an ordinary citizen think? In any case, what immediately preceded this was that in the previous days you could hear a fellow Shuvakov talking very politely and seriously about the necessary reforms in the area of higher education and as a member of the Serbian government, as someone who personally knows Mr. Shuvakov and Minister Verbic, I am absolutely confident that the state will give its maximum to sanction such a failure and to prevent any future behaviour towards every citizen, especially those who serve other citizens for example, such as these honest people. When it comes to this amendment, I must confess here, Mr Pavicevic, that it was a profession, not a legal one, but exclusively a language. I said in the debate in the principle that by the exceptional lecturers this bill was reviewed, that this word: "I hold" did not exist in the work text, but that the lecturers said that in the larger listing, as it is in this article, there was a place of use of this word: "I hold." In addition to this, to create a kind of small disorder in the text of the law, it says, let's say, the fact that in Article 18 and Article 29 you also have the use of this word, but you have not submitted the amendment there. It's the same situation, a larger number of listings. That's the only reason. We listened to the lecturers. I am proud that we have given good lecturers this law, as we will each future law, because it is of interest to a more orderly, better, more correct text of our regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27442	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27443	Thank you, President. I will, in any case, use the time spent on the Rules of Procedure for the amendment and the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The proposed amendment has tried to contribute, in our opinion, to the SPS parliamentary group, to more precisely define the provision of Article 5, which relates to the completion of the procedure. If the termology were to be maintained only "determination", this would mean a much broader term than what the law implies, which is why we have proposed to define it, therefore, that the provision in paragraph 1 is changed and that the objection and appeal can be filed until the judicial end of the proceedings, the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period. There is no doubt that the termination clause is significantly wider than that of the proceedings itself. However, the far more significant reason for the submission of this amendment is paragraph 3, where the word “detailed reasoning ” appears. This term should highlight the importance of the reasoning. However, as every procedural law applies exclusively to judges, particularly judges, therefore, to those applying the law, and to any procedural norm precisely because of judges and not because of parties, it must be perfect, in order to prevent excessive occurrence of unequal case-law and so that judges do not put themselves in a position to waste time interpreting norms. What does “detailed ” mean? In detail, it means stressing that the argument must contain much more than is expected. However, by procedural laws, according to the law on litigation, we already have an obligation that the argument contains what must be contained in the procedural and legal sense. Because if it does not contain the elements that the argument must contain, then there is a significant injury to the litigation, extrapar, criminal or executive procedure. If that material injury is contained, then it must be taken into account that what is stated in the explanation must be detailed. That is why, in our view, the term “detailed” itself is too high and in a nomotechnical sense of the word, again in our opinion, unnecessary, so that at least those who in practical terms apply this law are obliged to provide an explanation, of course in written form, and that this argument fully corresponds to what implies the procedural obligation of the judge, in accordance with the provisions of the relevant procedural law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27444	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27445	Thank you. Namely, when it comes to the amendment submitted by my esteemed colleague, Neđo Jovanovic, it is one of the quality, both the text of the amendment and its reasoning, and it seems to me that in a more comprehensive, more complete, more precise manner defines the said article of the 5th very text of the bill. In the first position of that same member of the text of the bill, it is said – the complaint and appeal can be filed until the process is completed. I think that is crucial why it should be considered to accept a solution from counterpart Nedja Jovanovic's amendment. As far as justice itself is concerned, we all know that it is a judicial decision that authoritatively regulates party behaviour in the ruled party. At the same time, it must be a choice of legal certainty. That, too, we know, and that can only be done if regulation of the legal relationship is finally and not changed. The law works for everyone. The court ruling is a law which applies to a concrete disputed relationship between concrete parties and for these parties is so-called. a kind of individual law to resolve a disputed relationship. In order for a court decision to have all of these qualities, it must possess security, it must possess certainty in its inapplicability, it must possess authority. That's exactly what a judicial decision gives the Institute of Justice. There is no sign of equality between the end of the procedure and between the judicial end of the procedure because they were never synonyms. If you complete the proceedings, it may also mean that a court ruling has been made which has a certain authority. End the proceedings may mean and publish a court ruling that binds the court. Ending the proceedings may mean and deliver a court ruling that also affects the parties, but all of this means ending the proceedings, and that also means that at that stage of the proceedings it is a decision that is not rightful. For these reasons, I think that the adoption of the amendment submitted by my colleague Jovanovic should be reconsidered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27446	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Faculty of Law from Novi Sad who are currently following a part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27447	I would like to thank the honourable Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow students, but I would not agree with this here for bringing out colleagues Batic and Jovanovic, and for what reason. Thus, Mr Jovanovic's amendment is said to be – the complaint and appeal can be filed until the judicial end of the process of safeguarding the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. I think you've missed the point of Article 1 of the law. When you are in position 1, the complaint and the complaint can be filed until the proceedings are completed, the procedure for which the initiative is established, i.e. the complaint or appeal for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, shall be followed. That's the first reason. The second reason that there are other amendments, in some other amendments that I have seen to be submitted to this same attitude, is that there must be no first word on the procedure that has been brought to an end, i.e. which is aimed at a judicial end at that time. Maybe it's a first-degree procedure, for example, and maybe it's a review procedure. You have an amendment that your colleagues from the SDS have submitted where there's a similar explanation for what I'm saying about not accepting right now. What do we do when you've got the audit procedure being conducted? In any case, I don't think you've guessed the very point of Article 5's position by referring here to a procedure in which there's a suspicion that there's been a breach of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, not a procedure to assess a breach of the right to trial within a reasonable time frame, which you've given could be determined from this formulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27448	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27449	I would like to thank Madam President, the honourable ministers with their associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliaments, have tabled an amendment to Article 5, which regulates the common rules in the section of the complaint and the complaint, and that is to say, the statement 1 - the complaint and the appeal can be filed until the proceedings are completed. We have suggested that the words "until the procedure is completed" be replaced by the words "until the judicial end of the procedure". We also suggested that the word “detailed” be deleted in paragraph 3. The solution proposed in the amendment compared to the solution set out in the draft law is considered to be more precise and consistent with the legal formulations of all procedural laws, and in particular the amendment clearly sets a time limit for which the complaint and appeal can be filed. In relation to Section 3, we believe that the definition of "specific" introduces the non-needed confusion. Furthermore, the term "detailed" would open up a space for abuse of the legal remedy against the solution, as the party could always be called that the argument is not detailed enough. Furthermore, the term “detailed” is considered to be very colorectal and imprecise. The Government rejected the amendment and wrote in its explanation that it was not accepted for the reasons for the proposed provisions of Article 5. The draft law is clear and precise and does not require the precision proposed by the amendment. It is also a clear deadline within which legal resources can be filed. Let's say that the proposal is clear, but the amendment gives a clearer solution and a solution that is termologically consistent with the procedural laws. It is still unclear how a detailed explanation can be a precise determination. What's considered detailed? What happens when a citizen complains the next day because the solution was not detailed? In procedural rules, there must be no place for inaccuracies and possible abuses of those standards. The amendment, which explained previous counterparts and amendments by colleagues Zivkovic and Pavicevic, is very similar, but my colleagues and I from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, the ZS have submitted the amendment and we suggest that Article 5 be specified. We have tried to influence other amendments to the text of the bill and to improve it even though we still feel that this law is not necessary at all. It is indisputable that every man is sensitive when he is denied a right or if he is wronged, regardless of who he comes from, especially if he comes from the state authorities and more if he comes from the judicial authorities. We all know the saying that justice is slow but affordable, but if it comes late, justice is no longer justice. For these reasons, we have in the legal system of the norms that regulate the trial within a reasonable period of time, primarily the Constitution as the highest legal act gives the grounds for trial within a reasonable period of time and provides guarantees. Article 22 which protects human and minority rights and Article 32 where the right to a fair trial is guaranteed is an integral part of the right to a fair trial and a reasonable trial. In addition, norms from other laws and some procedural and some that regulate material law also regulate time limits for trial and provide for a reasonable trial. However, incompetence, the lack of power to implement existing norms leads to the fact that we do not now have a reasonable trial and that the parties are indeed damaged by the delay in the trial. We therefore believe that the ministry and the government have resorted to the adoption of this law because it has no power and has no ability to apply existing and valid norms, but it is not a guarantee that this law will achieve the objective of the trial within a reasonable period of time. This law doesn't give us any guarantees either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27450	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27451	I touched this amendment a little while ago even though I compared it to each other. It is therefore proposed that the words "until the procedure is completed" be changed in the words "until the judicial end of the procedure". You're right, but not entirely, but only partially. The European Court of Human Rights appreciates the length of one procedure from its beginning, i.e. the initiation, if we talk about some litigation procedure until its execution. And not until the formal legal execution, so when, let's say, it's a solution to the execution, but to the effective execution of the verdict. That part of your formulation is not covered. I'll just tell you one thing, not to talk about executions based on credible documents, we're talking about a classic execution of judgment. In our basic courts we have 10,599 cases of classical execution over the age of ten. So, ten years have passed since the moment, and many years have passed, since the time when a citizen has received a judicial verdict and can't do anything with it and his execution procedure lasts for more than 10 years. What do we do in that case? It's something that this formulation isn't covered. I don't agree with you for saying, something I haven't heard from your party, that this is a law, in principle, in debate, that this is a law that is unnecessary. And as far as I think the law is needed, looking up to good and orderly systems like the German system, which has this law, such as Austrian, Italian, Slovak, Czech, if you want Slovenian.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27452	Time, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27453	This is the law that moved some things in a positive direction, just to finish the sentence, I'm sorry, in a positive direction when protecting the right to trial is within a reasonable period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27454	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27455	Thank you, Madam President. So I join the conclusion that the amendment should not be accepted. I express the surprise that, in addition to having heard practically in advance the explanation why the amendment is not properly formulated, we are once again getting a detailed explanation in which nothing new is heard as a counter argument or, possibly, a new motive. I'd like to ask that we concentrate a little more and listen better today, and I think we'll be more content with the outcome. In addition, on the subject of the use of the terms in detail, I would like to refer to the amendment promoter, both this and the others who have called for some issue regarding the use of that word, to look at some of the following members. In the following members, when it comes to a solution, it is precise what the solution should contain in this context and it should be interpreted whether it is detailed or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27456	The word of MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27457	Can I get a replica of my colleagues' exposure? Since he said I wasn't listening and that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27458	You got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27459	I wanted to say that the amendments aren't identical, and that's why everyone needs to explain their amendment and that it's not right for our colleagues here to criticize and qualify us so that we don't listen and we don't pay attention. We didn't learn by heart, so we came here to tell what we learned by heart at home, no matter what anyone said. I just wanted to add more, Mr. Minister, I don't know if we understand each other well. I did not say that there was no need to secure the trial within a reasonable period, even if necessary, we just feel that there are already enough norms in the current legislation and that they could, that there were forces and wills to be applied, could be applied without the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27460	What time will you use? An authorised representative. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27461	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers, you have done a comparative analysis, or a partnership with German and Austrian legislation. Austrian and German laws in this area deal with incident situations. In these countries, a reasonable trial is a rule, not an exception. We have a trial past a reasonable deadline, not an exception. You've been ministers for the past three years, as far as you've led this ministry, you've had enough opportunities to get close to orderly legal systems, such as German, Austrian, French or some kind of Anglo-Saxon legal system. No, I don't. You are passing one law, we do not say that it is unnecessary, but in this case, it is evidence of the incompetence of the Serbian judiciary which, among other things, you are guilty and, of course, by the fact that the Serbian judiciary has been blocked by a four-month strike by a notary-chosen lawyer, who was even illegal, I mean the formation of their chamber. In that sense, this law will not eliminate the root cause of ineffectiveness of our judiciary and this law can be a burden for state finances. Of course, citizens need to get a satisfaction for it if one of their rights is compromised, which is, for example, the right to trial within a reasonable period, which is both constitutional and legal norm, one thing, could be said, a basic human right, but you ministers should have done everything in your jurisdiction to make the Serbian judiciary effective and not to happen, as is happening these days, that a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not receive a call for court because he has an unknown address in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's comical, Minister, that's comical. As a result, the possible judge who judges in this proceedings and the court who judges in this case will be exposed to the application of this law because the trial was within a time limit that is not reasonable. In that sense, Minister, take care of the essence, not, in this case, things that come as cream on cake, like cream on the cake of an orderly justice system. That's not our justice system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27462	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27463	Thank you. The Honorable Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished predecessor says - it's comical and deal with the essence. It is my fault that Mr. Veselinovic was not at the debate in principle. If he had been, and he had a sense of time, he'd realize that I'm the minister of justice, right, third year in a row, but I made an exact statement. In Serbian courts we have 713,521 cases aged five to ten years, we have 239,944 cases older than ten years. Well, who was the minister of justice then, and then who was in charge of the Serbian judiciary and who was responsible for so many cases? This is tragic. In Germany and Austria, the trial within a reasonable period is a rule, that is, and we want it to become a rule in Serbia and we want the right of the citizen to be tried within a reasonable period of time to protect him and that is the purpose of this law. Please don't lecture us, for those of us who inherited a million objects over five years of age, almost a million subjects, and give us lessons as we're to blame. See how many cases are old here just because they had a presignation in 2010 and were assigned to a new judge, which the previous one couldn't finish. I've got 15 more seconds, thank you, you won't de-concentrate me. In any case, your academic honesty at least deserves to remain at that level of debate that we had the day before, and also by colleagues from Home and by fellow counterpart Hasanovic Korać and other party colleagues and all those who contributed to a dignified and appropriate debate in this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27464	Thank you. The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27465	Thank you. I think this amendment should be rejected and I'm going to refer to the minister's speech. We had a very professional and constructive discussion both today and yesterday, and then some colleagues came in today and began to deal with politics, and the law didn't even read, obviously. That's the first thing. The second thing, I don't think it's right to talk about the work of the judiciary right now, not to mention 2010. If my colleague had listened to my speech two days ago, he'd know what problems we had in 2010 we who went to court, who we dealt with in court, and when things didn't know where they were. As for filing charges and addresses, it's not the court's fault. It's the one who filed the lawsuit as an initial act. If he didn't give a good address, I thought the court should drop the lawsuit, pal. But you should know that as a university professor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27466	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27467	Dear Minister Selakovic, here is proof that I read the transcripts of the discussion on the day I was bound as a MP outside this room. So, I also read Mr. Secretary's presentation, your exposure, and my colleague homen's exposure. I'm glad that you have words of praise for Mr. Homen, although you're a little in a bit of a bit of trouble here, because it's time to defile him, and it's time to praise him. The other day, you did well with his exposure. So I'm not suffering from any party discipline. Leave this to the SNS' main board and your party alignment and adjustment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27468	Ambassador, can we just have a little bit of communication in a real way?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27469	You said that the debate on that day ran in the sense that this law was necessary. So, not a colleague analyzed the essence, or he didn't commit himself to the situation in our judiciary, but was explicitly related to the measure of the law, and the measure of the law cannot be included in the wider context of the situation in the judiciary. Always, Minister, when you have no answer, neither you nor Minister Gasic nor Stefanovic yesterday, you talk about the weather from Kulina Ban and it's always someone else's fault. But you, Minister, say yourself, are a three-year-old justice minister, and it is not correct to take the efficiency of the judiciary from three, four or five years ago. Try to focus on the present and the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27470	Time. You asked for a replica, if I'm not mistaken. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27471	Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I suggest that this amendment be not accepted, and the explanation is presented by the minister and all my predecessors. But since those who volunteered to discuss the amendment went completely to the other side, they set out to call the Minister for Things he wasn't guilty of, I simply felt the need to answer. First of all, I will not allow people who do their job with honor and integrity as judges and prosecutors, to be called to account for things they are not guilty of. I'd like to remind you that in 2009/2010. A year, and that's what I said when we talked about in the principle of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Judgment within a reasonable period, no hearings were scheduled, or were scheduled, but were postponed. You entered the court and you knew at the entrance that the hearing would be postponed. That took nine months. A complete amount of uncertainty and fear with the judge whether they will be selected or not. Many said, "Why should I schedule a trial when there is a possibility of not being elected, why should I do someone else's work?" That's what happened. About 800 or 900 judges and prosecutors were not re-elected because they did not receive a letter from the DS from Vlasotinc, a letter of support from who was similar, whose wife was a member of the DS. That is why there are currently a million cases in Serbia in working courts, and they are over five years old. If they are over five years old, that means that five years ago Mr Selakovic was not a minister. He's a minister in the last three years, and all cases are over five years old. There are over ten years, about 200,000, and a million in total. Then who's to blame? Can you make that difference between three and five years? You're accusing this congregation majority, which concerns the second law, that at the age of 67, the Supreme Court of Cassation should retire. We have suggested it and it will be accepted. The saddest thing is that esteemed counterpart Janko Veselinovic keeps mentioning the lawyer strike, as if lawyers were strikeinating to give Mr. Vesenovic some support. He kept calling for that strike, and we were strikers and we knew why we were doing it. We did not do this because of Minister Selakovic, but because we had certain requirements. The saddest thing for all of you is that an agreement has been made between the Justice Department's working groups and our lawyers. That day was your saddest day in the Assembly, and it was very difficult for you, and I was happy that day, because it was the first time that a compromise was made in the professional public between the Ministry of Justice and our lawyers. After that, we made changes to the Notary Act and made changes to the set of laws and what we were looking for. Even the Department of Justice gave more in that proposal than the lawyers asked. It gave its hand and showed that it was eager to compromise. In the principle debate, you said that you completely agree that this law is necessary, and then today you're saying something quite the opposite. Comrade Homen came and said what is the position of your parliamentary group, that this law is necessary, and it is necessary because there is one genealogy. We had a constitutional appeal, but then we managed to break through the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has solved many problems. You know, there are a lot of people in Serbia who complain, a lot of people who complain, who write complaints, and they have no basis for that. We killed that Constitutional Court, that's all he did. In order to relieve these people from doing their job, when we changed the Law on the Design of Courts, we decided that senior courts, or presidents of senior courts, would decide on appeals for trial within an unreasonable time. When we saw that it was not enough, it began to embrace this and the adoption of such a law, which, of course, is in line with the norms of European law and will serve as parties to have one legal certainty, so it will also serve as a stick above all judges, prosecutors and all who participate in the process to do so in the fastest possible way. I am telling you from experience that even without this law, I am sure that for the past three years, since there is one and political and legal security in Serbia's judiciary, judges are working in the best possible way, as well as prosecutors. It's just my appeal that more prosecutors should be elected and more judges should be elected, because many are missing in many courts and it's physically impossible to achieve a job. They want and work till half past five. They work till six o'clock, work and in the evening and carry the items home. And instead of commending those people who have accepted everything that we have brought here and apply everything we bring, we say that this law is unnecessary, that it is excessive, that it will not produce an effect. Well, they will! Unfortunately for you, this law will be passed and will produce consequences that you do not want, which we want, which is to achieve complete legal certainty in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27472	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27473	According to the amendment, Madam President, which, unfortunately, from the time I called in last time, we haven't heard anything from any colleagues who come out of the parliamentary benches. I guess they should be performing from the point of view of someone who supports the amendment, at least because he proposes or shares the lines with those who propose it. Nothing at all. We've heard a lot of other things, though, with some strange attempts to turn this back into a principle debate. Strange because at least it's not clear what they're supposed to provide as a conclusion, whether to support or deny support for what's the point of the law? Is the idea to protect yourself in any way, to ensure the right to trial within a reasonable period, or perhaps to challenge the idea of doing something like that? It's probably the least clear to whoever started the discussion on the subject. What I'd like to be attached to is to protect everyone's right not to feel comfortable if he's hurt. That wasn't the intention when I came to the last time, although I didn't, I have to admit, until the end was clear mentioning the text of the memorized mind, whether it was thought that I resented someone that the text had learned by heart or maybe it was transferred to me that I had learned something by heart. If that's not the other word, then I apologize for doubting it at all. In any case, the point of the announcement was to hear better, to better strengthen reception devices, Colloquially speaking, at today's discussion, at today's debate and to hear from each other. We save time for the people who sent us here, we try to be more efficient here in the debate, if the minister advances to answer any question that might arise. We should also respect that fact, at least so much that we won't repeat the argument that was answered in advance and that we don't go into spending that time on whether we're doing something by heart, if we've written something and read it, etc., we absolutely don't need it. The only good thing that was in the words of the one who tried to answer again in principle, and right now, unfortunately, I don't see it, is the mention of the essence. I'd like to call again to deal with the essentials and look at what the current amendment is on the agenda, that if we have something new in the argument, we should now say, if we don't have, to move on to the other points of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27474	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27475	I think the amendment that my colleague Pavicevic and I have proposed is an answer to these dilemmas, if anyone remembers what we talked about and what the subject of Article 5 is. We suggest adding the word "basic" in front of the words "action", so that the first attitude reads: "Comment and appeal can be filed until the basic procedure is completed". This is precisely and clearly what is meant and when it can be tolerated and in which procedure it can be tolerated and the word “detailed” explained in detail can be deleted in Article 5(3), since it can mean a lot and it can mean nothing. First, there are better Serbian words for it, as detailed or exhaustive, but I think the objection and appeal, or the solution they adopt and refuse, must of course be fully explained, explained, so there is no dilemma whether they are reasoned or not. In response, i.e. in the opinion of the amendment where it is rejected, it says that whoever wrote it is sufficiently precise and does not require further precision. The debate of other colleagues under this article of the law has already shown that this is not precise enough and I think it is quite clear that, like the other amendments, this amendment has been made with the proposal that precisely the matter dealing with this law, but also the language which it defines and explains to be such that it is unequivocal and that it is clear to people who need to use their right to trial within a reasonable period of time and those who need to prosecute their complaints. Therefore, I think this is a solution that my colleague Pavicevic and I have proposed - a solution that improves the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27476	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic following this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27477	Dear President, of course I suggest that this amendment be not accepted, for the reasons that the argument of the Government is correct and correct. It is not true that the word means comprehensively and that it should be deleted, however, it should remain. I refer the predecessor to the 1971 Serbian Dictionary Matice, page 576, so they will see that it does not mean that they are not a mixed explanation, unclear, but that they are indeed the word that is Serbian and that it is a completely correct explanation. When I took, President, the word, let me say that I was embroiled by the attack on Assistant Minister of Education Mr. Shuvakov, the more Mr. Shuvakov and Mr. Verbic touched on what the predecessors had not touched for 15 years in education. It is, in my opinion, an attack on education and education reforms, especially in higher education. Let me say, however, that no attacks and no stamps, as they applied to it, can stop the reforms because they are the alpha and omega of the survival of our country and people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27478	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27479	First of all, to a respected colleague who took himself to the dictionaries in nine rows, to tell him that language is a living matter and that it was not nailed in self-government socialism in 1971 and that what you read was called the Dictionary of the Serbian-Croatian language. I have nothing against Croats, but now the language spoken in Serbia is officially called Serbian. In the Sr. Matica Dictionary, published in 2007, you could understand that something has changed, on the 252th page, in detail means comprehensively and in detail. It's like you realize in 2008 that the Berlin Wall fell. So you need to follow up on what's going on around you. It wasn't all over in 1971. Tito died, so some more people left this world. Don't make your honor of calling your professors with absolute ignorance of the language that I needed to transfer your potential knowledge to your students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27480	Ambassador Dr. Marko Atlagic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27481	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, respected citizens, especially respected intelligence in higher education, I have no intention of responding to the analyses of the previous speaker because they are below any not intellectual, but human and any level, let alone academic debates. But if it mentions Serbian or Serbian-Croatian, I will not discuss the dictionary specifically because I really see that matter does not know, there is only a language, and it is called Serbian, there is no Serbian-Croatian language. Secondly, I refer it to a dictionary of 17 Serbian books, so let him take a look and learn a little bit. It's really beneath every human, intellectual, friendly, MP level to discuss it with him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27482	I'll break up the debate here. So this really has nothing to do with the amendment. You said everything you thought to each other and you answered each other and I think we should stop talking about it. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27483	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic, Honored Minister Selakovic, Honored guest from the Ministry, Mrs Kuburovic and respected guests, is now injured by Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that treats the issue of dignity of the National Assembly and of the MPs. Dear President Gojkovic, Mr Zivkovic said in his speech that according to the Serbian language Dictionary issued by the Serbian Matica in 2007, the meaning of the term is detailed. Here, I have that dictionary in front of me. Mr Atlagic said that this is not true, that the meaning of the term is not detailed. Then Mr. Atlagic said he believes inviting Mr. Zivkovic to the Serbian language Dictionary of the Mother of Serbia means humiliating the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27484	He didn't say that. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27485	Yes, it is. Check it out, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27486	Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27487	I listen carefully and follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27488	I listen very carefully. Don't argue with me. I listen to everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27489	The queen of Serbia - Novi Sad, Mrs Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27490	Ambassador, thank you. Don't let me take the time for this. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Good, dignity of the National Assembly. I believe, the dignity of the National Assembly, I would have much to say about the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you, MP. I understand all of you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: Then warn the gentlemen to stick to the Regulations. ) You cannot have a replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Because he can't do business, and you've stayed in the system. I don't know if that was your intention. There were no injuries, because everything you have stated, your interpretation, what Ambassador Marko Atlagic said, does not correspond to reality. According to the Serbian or Serbian Croatian dictionaries do not respond to reality, take the opportunity to see what I wanted to tell you. So, the fact that you wanted to replicate... Do we want to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I think it is necessary to vote. I think you can sit down and tell me your decision. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: And when I speak I like to get up like this.) To vote because this really is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. No, no, no, I'm giving the grade whether it's injured dignity under Article 104. I say it wasn't, because you gave your free interpretation of his words, and I think the insult fell from the other side. Okay, you're interpreting it in a different way. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27491	I'm giving up the president because you really told the truth. What I was supposed to say, you said. The truth is what you said, and let Mr. Docent, let this belong to his academic integrity, this truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27492	Thank you for giving up. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27493	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. My fellow MPs have tried to amend Article 3 by amendment in their proposal for Article 5. The law, which reads in the proposed text – a solution which adopts or refuses to object and appeal, must be detailed. The amendment amends its 3rd position by defining that the solution to be adopted rejects or rejects the objection and appeal must be reasoned. With the hope that, since we're suggested here that you advance the answers, you might as well give me an answer in advance to an unsolicited question. It's about the precision that I know can be a solution that is considered and rejected. However, it is a very sensitive and delicate matter as to when this law will be adopted and there will be objections that you must reject. It's a simple life. That's the part where I don't say it out of intent, I'm not saying from a strategy to disrupt the court process, but it's possible that there are objections that you simply have to reject because they contain nothing that the law implies that the objection contains. It's simple to either adopt this amendment, or to establish during practice what we're going to do with objections that are not to be rejected, but they're for something that can't be considered at all. It was an idea. We do not dispute the right of the promoter to decide that it is enough to say that the objection is either adopted or rejected, but an amendment with that intention has been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27494	The word is Balša Bozovic, the bearer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27495	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've already had the opportunity to speak on this subject in the debate itself, and I think it's important to mention it one more time. We had one dilemma, and I said when we discussed in principle and Mr. Minister that a personal mistake like this could not be stolen. I didn't think at the time whether you were writing or not writing this law, of course you weren't writing this law, but obviously it was prepared or mistranslated from someone else's kitchen, so you were put here to defend it. For this reason, I also considered it necessary to give a detailed explanation when it comes to this term, given that there is no positive right when it comes to our legislation. In any other law, there is no detailed explanation. That term itself is something that is controversial. We discussed that this law is in line with the Holy of Europe and that something that is in any case positive when it comes to protecting these rights, but certainly these little things should be paid attention for the simple reason that Mrs. Comic said, theory is one thing, and practice is something else entirely. With these amendments, we are trying to really complete a law that is certainly significant when it comes to the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. We think it's very good for this amendment to be adopted yourself, I'm sure you're convinced that this is something that defines this thing more precisely. This isn't some political thing right now, I don't know what kind of debate, this is really something that needs to be clearer than what's been suggested. If someone's mistranslated with not knowing a Slovenian or Croatian language in Serbian, it doesn't necessarily mean that we can't change in a more comprehensive way here to make this thing much clearer to the citizens than it would otherwise be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27496	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27497	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know how, a hundred times the untrue will not become true. Yesterday, the law was said to be a failed translation and to contain some legal terms, terms, standards that are not specific to Serbian law, which is absolutely incorrect. Well, let's just say yesterday that the test procedure doesn't exist. I don't know if my colleague Bozovic remembers the subject of administrative law well. Well, the most frequently applicable law in every country is the Law of Administrative Procedure. I don't know who you passed your exam with, remember that, so you see a little bit and look at the law, so you'll see in the Administrative Procedure Act there's an examination procedure. As you said, the non-existent term is, as you said, obviously unfounded, also exists. So, when it comes to the term in detail, Mr Pavicevic and Mr. Zivkovic were right. It is the same expression in detail, but in detail it is not Serbianism. It's about like when we had a court-ordering law, they had a change in the court-manager's terms. Today it's the governor of the court. I prefer the word of the governor of the court better and more appropriate than the manager of the court. There's a difference between us, but here's the point. And, just one more thing to add, very concisely. You can get the impression from the amendment that the law does not know the possibility of rejection. You have in Article 8 where there is detailed talk of rejection without conducting the examination procedure. If we're talking about that detail, I think there's only one language technical difference. Thank you. And the people who worked on this bill really did a great job.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27498	Thank you. I can give you my word on the amendment since this was just the minister's answer. No, I don't. [[Balša Bozovic, from town: A right to replica?]] You want to discuss the amendment. (Balša Bozovic, from town: No. Thank you. Together, MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic submitted the title of section 2 above Article 6 of the amendment. The government and the Justice Committee, the state administration, local self-government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27499	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time, because it's irresistible to stay in the stenogram, we're down to lecturers. So, the amendment that was accepted changes the rubrum which was read – point 2. The content of the objection and the amendment of my colleagues 2. and the peripheral of the votes – the objection and the content of the objection was accepted. It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, but I'm glad to just have a chance to say that the language of this thing is really right and I can see that there's a lot of talk about the language during this law. I am pleased that the minister is inclined to respect the obligation to write the laws in a comprehensible language. I would still like to grow a tendency for all of us to talk more about laws, so that whoever the laws apply to, regardless of what part of society, that means whether family law as a small constitution, whether this law applies only to a group of citizens who participate in the judicial process or who is criminal or whatever, that the laws are a little bit more talked about, because that is the topic in the region, such as the language of the topic in the region. I am pleased that some colleagues from the ruling coalition are engaged in language, I am sorry that we cannot be together, let's say in Croatia that we attend workshops on how to agree on both language and how to use the common origin or similarity between the Croatian, Serbian, Bosniak, Bosnian, mother tongue to have a common position in matters or EU member states, such as Croatia, for which unfortunately, I could not go with colleagues, or countries that join. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27500	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic. Does anyone want a word? The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored President Gojkovic, Honored Minister Selakovic and Honored Guests and Guests. I have the impression of one, based on the debate so far, above all on our amendments, as if I were one part in a theatre of absurds because, to our previous four amendments submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I, for each Mr Selakovic said – you are right. We can check and add – but we can't adopt these amendments. I have now thought, right to tell you, would the amendment be adopted if I were now Minister Selakovic, in this amendment, to say – don't adopt it, because we don't have a good explanation and then Minister Selakovic says – well, you don't have a good explanation but here's to adopt the amendment. Because, gentlemen, if the argument is right, if you're right, if we confirm that it's more appropriate to make an argument, I think it's a logical outcome for that amendment to be adopted and the amendment to Article 6. Because as far as I'm concerned, Mr. Selakovic, I think, more precisely, the formulations of something written in article 6 of Article 2, in relation to how you defined it. We have offered one formulation that could not be concluded that in this procedure it is in order to protect the right to a reasonable trial mandatory representation by the proxies. You, Minister Selakovic, this morning you called on this criterion of precision, so you said that precision leads to suitability, to a better understanding, the lecturers were also included as a criterion, and I think there is no obstacle if we follow some logic that our amendment, which in reason is based on additional precision, is now adopted here. If he doesn't adopt, I'll just continue to feel like in that theater of absurdity. Well, thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27502	Vladimir Orlic:
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27503	Thank you, Madam President. I call on the amendment promoter to read the first line of reasoning we have received from the government and it will be all, I believe, more than clear. And certainly to repeat the invitation to speak well today and to keep an eye on each other during the debate. When something boasts, and it's a by-product or a conclusion that one word is the same to another. This certainly does not mean that all that is heard today is commendable, nor could it, since not the best things have been heard. But fortunately, nothing essential would be the reason for further discussion. So, let's hear better, let's take care of who said and certainly read the explanation when we got them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27504	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić, Blagoje Bradić. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27505	Thank you, Madam President. We have submitted an amendment to Article 6(2) in the sense that points 6 and 7 are deleted. Namely, Article 6 regulates the objection and content. The objection is in paragraph 2. There are eight points to what all the objection should contain. Point 6 states – data on the trial case which indicate that the court is needlessly late with a decision. And point 7 says -- data on the case of an investigation that suggests that the public prosecutor is delaying the investigation. We have suggested that these points be deleted because we believe that they make it difficult for the parties to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period, since the parties do not have to be sufficiently professional to know the procedural reasons for which the court is late, or the public prosecutor is delaying the conduct of the investigation, and if these reasons do not adequately state the objection may be rejected or rejected. The Government did not accept the amendment with reasons, i.e. for the reasons for the proposed provisions of Article 6(2). The draft law regulates the content of the objection, i.e. mandatory elements to which the objection must contain, and all for the effectiveness of the remedy. That's the explanation we got about the rejection of the amendment. When we wrote the amendment, it was clear to us what the article 6 device was, but for the above reasons, we suggested that points 6 and 7 be deleted. Mr. Minister, do you understand that we believe that what is stated in points 6 and 7 is excess elements and that they make it difficult for citizens to exercise their right. They will often not be in a position to know these data that are sought, and if they do not provide these data, they will be considered incomplete and rejected or rejected. As I recall in the debate we agreed in principle, and you stated and we stated that the trial does not come within a reasonable period of time for any more reason. Because of the poor organisation in court, because of the actions of the judges themselves, because of the inadequate engagement of the president of the courts to organise the trial, as well as the obstruction by lawyers and the obstruction by the parties. I worked as a lawyer, and I know all of this in practice, and precisely because all these factors can lead to a delay in the proceedings, we wanted to protect the parties with this amendment, and to enable them to submit without these elements and to provide a reasonable trial within a reasonable period of time, so I ask you to reconsider this amendment once more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27506	Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27507	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. Important question, and I will support the amendments that my colleagues have made because it seems to me to be minor damage, rather than the certainty that points 6 and 7 are a problem in making objections, because they are a mandatory element of objecting. That point 6 states that the data on the trial case indicates that the court is needlessly late to decide. Obaška, a language formulation as if there was a required delay. The court is either late or not late. The court would have to work within the deadlines prescribed for it, so there is no need or need for delay, and now there is a problem with what the data is. Dasud is unnecessarily late for his decision. What's that information? Is the information related to the time limits the court has, is the information related to not having a trial scheduled? Where it shows that, as I say, it's the court's duty to break it. It is slippery and more like me, unfortunately, that it will be the basis to reject or reject the objection, not you, of course, but the one to whom it is tolerated, but what will really use the power of the data to have unnecessary delay in deciding. What's a court decision? Whether this applies to the course of the trial or to the course of the court, to say faster, the establishment. So someone who needs to make an appointment and stuff. Similarly to point 7. of the investigation, which indicates that the public prosecutor is delaying the investigation. That's just awkward. So he'd have to be prosecuted if he stalled. How can a public prosecutor stall? With what reasons? I know it's bitter for you and me, and if we're inclined, and we're not sarcasm when it's hard and funny, but we're here asking a party that's in the process to give you information that the DA is stalling the investigation. He doesn't have a deadline, as we have, to tell you, as we have situations where a public prosecutor doesn't react, and he would have to, by law, to what is public knowledge, to what is news in the media, to what is available to everyone and what is obvious. It's very slippery. I'd like to, don't get it wrong, so I'd like it to be a short trial time or a time of investigation because there's a place where the party can say it - this court is unnecessarily late with a decision, and this prosecutor, the public prosecutor, is stalling. But I don't see how anyone will object. It is related to a total of two deadlines in all other laws relating to judges and prosecutors. I'm not sure it'll be enough to use it every time someone wants to object. Not to get together into an unnecessary situation to give a man, a citizen some chance to get to trial or to investigate within a reasonable time, but in fact by provisions 6 and 7 you're preventing him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27508	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27509	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with respect for the distinguished colleagues who spoke on the subject of this amendment, I really don't think their purpose has been fully seen. The purpose is first seen to me by two very important things. The first thing is this is a member who applies himself to a citizen. If someone claims that they have been injured by the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, let them say what the citizen who complains of the violation of the right to see the injury means. He can just say he didn't have, like, a year and a half scheduled for any single hearing. In principle, I was saying in the debate that we had cases of judges against whom discipline proceedings were conducted and were resolved because of a serious disciplinary offense because six or seven years had not carried out any single procedural action in certain proceedings. So you can simply state that fact. When it comes to point 7, data on the case of an investigation indicating that the public prosecutor is delaying the investigation, you have cases, unfortunately cases, where a public prosecutor takes orders to open an investigation and a longer period of time doesn't even invite a suspect to a hearing. Let's say you or I know that we're being investigated, and we have no idea what the investigation is about, state the reason for a year and a half I'm under investigation, I've never been invited to be heard. Or, let's say, I suggested that certain evidence be collected if I was charged with this procedure. A public prosecutor doesn't decide for a year and a half, and that's stated. The second purpose, and I end it, is that this right that a citizen owns would still not be thrown out of the mockery and unfoundedly used in a way that maltenes are misused and that courts are engulfed in these cases. Please state what you consider to be a violation of the law, and the court will decide whether there are injuries or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27510	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27511	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm joining this proposal for a conclusion. Certainly when you look at exactly what the composition of this Article 2 does. In points 6 and 7, what makes a specific case tangible, clear and specific in its own way is that, in addition to those paragraphs 6 and 7, what is all else? General information on the name, residence, number of items, etc. and finally the signature. So just under 6 and under 7 there's room to point to a particular problem. We've just been able to hear what's really wrong or considered to be controversial. And all that we've heard from those who have supported this amendment certainly falls into that. So, problems with unannounced and unnecessary prolonging, but all that would be included in the possible knowledge of the existence of an incorrect interest in the absence of an end in what is considered reasonable time. So it's very clear why these things are practically needed, why they're useful. If we call for an argument, someone could make a mistake, and because of it being rejected, we could call for the same logic and say, it could fill in the data incorrectly. Well, then why don't we delete the items 1, 2, 3. If there's a possibility of a mistake and therefore a bad outcome? I think we'll understand that it makes more than enough sense for this proposal to stay the way it is in the original text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27512	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27513	I thank the chairman. No matter how much I have submitted the amendment to this particular article, I must confirm the allegations made by the minister in the explanation of his position on the proposal for an amendment by Honorable colleague Komic, given that there are indeed too many facts and I have indeed insisted that instead of the terms under points 6 and 7. – data; indicate facts, not data. The data are a much broader concept, and I fear that in this broad interpretation of the termology itself is not going into something that is contrary to the very purpose of this member, but it is also true that the prosecutors in their actions sometimes serve and something that is not in the spirit of their profession, not only because they are not listening to the suspect, but even in the phase of the public prosecutor's investigation we have situations when the hearing of witnesses is delayed. We've had situations before when the prosecutor tolerates an expert who doesn't give his full findings and opinions, so something must be done that implies pointing an expert to the supplemental report and then going on forever. That's why you're absolutely right when you point out one such act of a public prosecutor, or those who perform a public prosecutorial function, and in that direction there are really problems that cause, which generate infringements of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. The only thing is, since I am not reporting under this amendment, I think you should consider that instead of the term – the trial case information; that is, in paragraphs 6 and 7, the data on the trial case and the case data are being replaced – the facts on the case of the trial and the facts relating to the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27514	Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic together submitted to the title of the 7th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27515	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. This is another amendment from the opus – we help the lecturers; since there was also a correction of the rubrum that was read – Obsessing the objection. Procedure by complaint; and now it is the right thing to do, the rubrum is to file objections and proceedings by complaint. When we talk about this accepted amendment, there's this way of writing laws with us with headlines, with the edges, and it's not always. This happened about 10 years ago that it was introduced as a practice for all laws, so on and so forth, with the then Head of the Secretariat of the Legislatives. Before that the laws had eventually chapters, they had only members. I think that we should consider whether we are standing consistently with such a person, I have no objection or criticism, only know when the draft laws in the Assembly come or not, and when they start coming with the edges, because we have various objections from those who use the law, regardless of whether they are interpreted by lawyers and others, it is as difficult for them as the changes and additions that are about to happen. So, I don't argue either that it shouldn't, simply in some small working group that the minister within the ministry sees if it's really the best possible way for everything the text of the law is once published to be submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27516	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27517	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one, as they say, note bene. So, I respect what you've said - the rubrum, the title of a member of the law is one of the basic elements of the transparency of the law. You're right that it wasn't a rule for us to standardize literally every matter. But if you take some of our best applicable regulations, therefore, sources of positive law, such as one exceptional Law on Liabilities, you'll see how much the title of a member makes an important element of the law, especially when it comes to those laws that they have and how often they apply. Laws rarely have content. For that very reason, when you have a member's title, you can also create content. So in a law like this where every member has its own name as a citizen, a layman, a man who's not a trained lawyer, it's much simpler to get along and find what he needs and what he's interested in. Of course, there are laws that regulate rare situations, where you can say it's not necessary, but I think this is something that it's using anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27518	Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27519	This amendment requires amendments to Articles 1 and 3 of this Act. The 1st position is now - the party is objecting to the court which is handling the proceedings or the court before which the proceedings are being conducted, if it considers that the public prosecutor has violated its right. More rationally, it seems to me, the solution to the 1st position - the party is objecting to the court before which the proceedings are being conducted. It also covers this "iza, or". There's no reason to have any extra text. The second change, the second part of the amendment, that's the change in attitude 3, is even more important. Paragraph 3 states – that an oral hearing is not being held in accordance with the appeal, which is directly contrary to Article 6. The European Convention, which contains an imperial provision to rule out rights and obligations on the basis of oral and public debate and the proposed position 3. This principle has been excluded, and therefore this is not a good solution to our law. The explanation given is, of course, a copy-past explanation, which we have already had the opportunity to see, where the proposed text is said to be more precise, but yes, I think, by one logical analysis, by language, we can legally come to the conclusion that the resolutions proposed by this amendment are better than what is in the text of the law, and I call on the Minister to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27520	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27521	Just a remark, since I will try to explain the amendment to Article 7 because it is in these members, and it would be good to repeat, although it is also said in the principle debate, the court before which the proceedings and the court before which the proceedings are conducted differs. When we are trying to amend this, it is a reason that we should not, and in Article 7 in paragraph 1, the legislator of the law distinguishes the court which conducts the proceedings or the court before which the proceedings are conducted, so it would be good in the first position to explain it, if not now orally, but in the instructions for the application of the law which is actually the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27522	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27523	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly. The text of the bill distinguishes the court that is pending the case, because we no longer have a court case, we already have a prosecutor's investigation. When we talk about the court before which the case is being conducted, then we mean a court that decides by objecting to those actions in a pre-criminal procedure conducted by the public prosecutor's office today. So that's the only reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27524	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27525	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice President, distinguished guests and guests from the Ministry of Justice, our amendments to Article 7 of this bill are key amendments to this bill, gentlemen. I'm sorry they weren't adopted, but I have hope that in the context of the debate we're having, they might still be adopted. In proposing these amendments, we have come from the National Strategy for Justice Reform for the period from 2013 to 2018, respected gentlemen, where it is said that the National Assembly should be excluded from the process and the election of the President of the Courts. It is known to have a negative impact on the independence of judges, etc. Then we noticed that, through the content of Article 7 of this bill, the powers of the President of the Court were unwarrantedly increased. Minister Selakovic told us not to increase the rights of the president of the courts, nor to influence the judge in another way, and in this explanation we have an argument. I can't just say right now that it's celery, appropriate and precise, but we have a real argument that that's true, but we have our own explanation within which we say that this content of Article 7 through the protection of parties' rights to a reasonable trial actually provides for the right and possibility for the President of the Court to discipline judges, it is indeed an increase in power. We can imagine that situation, a little consulting, and the people in practice here, so I've heard. The second thing, if we keep this formulation, it will mean that, under the protection of the rights of the parties, the presidents of the courts will be able to influence the judges, so that they are ordered, although the presidents of the courts should as a rule be the first among the equals. So, if we face these two positions, from the government's explanation and from our explanation, it seems to me that exactly what we wrote and that the amendment should be adopted, both this and Mr. Zivkovic on Article 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27526	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27527	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So once again, I call on the amendment's proposer to look at the first line of reasoning that we have received and in which the black on white says that it is the President of the Court of Justice who is obliged to take care of the timely and proper work of the court. It's already been, nothing has been revolutionaryly changed by this law, it's simply set up as it would, in my sincere belief, and it makes sense who's going to grow old by these objections. So, there's no new stuff here. If we want to protect ourselves from the situation that any individual judge has to deal with the president on this matter or on any matter of this kind, simply let the proceedings be effective and there will be no reason for objections, or there will be no right to any objection, even if someone puts it out of very personal interest without being based on a real situation. It's very simple to solve any misunderstanding of that kind. Besides, the law is clear enough, the rules are set in it, so the space for self-will, of course, is gone. If these are key objections, and I see that a large number of subsequent amendments are just based on what is proposed now on Article 7, I call that if there is no further argument, and I assume that there is no, because we would have heard it by now, that we are not wasting time in these discussions on some of the following amendments if they refer exclusively to this here. I think the situation is more than clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27528	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27529	Thank you. The amendment I have made with my colleagues concerns amendments to paragraphs 2 and 4. The bill, which speaks of it in position 2., is led by the President of the Court of Justice who also decides on the objection. The annual schedule of affairs allows him to appoint a judge or more judges to conduct the proceedings and decide on complaints. The proposal that we want to change position 2 says - the proceedings under appeal are led by the President of the Court who also decides on the objection. The annual schedule of affairs will determine one or more judges who, in the case of his prevention, as well as the cases in which he is acting as judge and for which a complaint is brought, will instead lead the proceedings and decide on the objections. I know it implies that either the President of the Court won't be acting as judge or there will be an ethicality that he doesn't decide then, but our hope is weak, given the problems we have. The fourth position is - the President of the Court is obliged to decide on an appeal within two months of the date of receipt of the complaint, it is also amended to read: "The President of the Court, or the judge designated by the annual schedule of the proceedings, is required to decide on the objection within two months of the date of receipt of the complaint". It's not just a language change. We are done with the amendments that we have improved the work of the lecturer, rather than being specified that if he already has an obligation within the deadline, then there are judges he schedules with an annual schedule. If the interpretation is to be understood, I can only hope that the practice will not deny that interpretation in either case, that there will be no president of the court who decides on the objection when the judge is acting and that each judge will understand that he also has a two-month period.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27530	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27531	President-in-Office, respected ministers, representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues, in Article 7(2). In our opinion, the bill should be added one sentence: “The President of the Court will replace the judge in a decision by appeal if the objection refers to the case being conducted by that judge. “ An explanation that, by basic principles, decision-making on legal remedies for higher cases, i.e. Under the second-degree decision, it is provided that it is not to be able to decide on legal remedies for cases which the same judge led or made decisions. We believe that the judge's decision under the appeal may be biased, and therefore negative by the applicant of this complaint, and we believe that such a formulation is necessary for this member to be called upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27532	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27533	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 7 which regulates the submission of objections and proceedings under appeal, as it is now according to the amendment adopted and so we propose that attitude 4 be changed. It is now said: “The President of the Court is obliged to decide on the appeal within two months of the day of receipt of the complaint. ” We suggest that Article 4 reads: “The President of the Court is obliged to decide on an appeal within one month of the day of receipt of the objection, and if it is a procedure in which a special law is required, he decides on an appeal within eight days of the day of receipt of the complaint. “ It is unacceptable for us to decide on an objection that requires protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of two months. This is how a given deadline devises the purpose, purpose and spirit of the bill, especially when it comes to the provision of Article 5(2), under which it norms the solution to the appeal and appeal should not affect the factual and legal issues which are subject to trial or investigation. Therefore, the process of protecting the right to a fair trial is procedural, and we believe that the two-month period for a decision under appeal is too long and should be 30 days. In this regard, we propose that the amendment also determine the time limit of eight days in the procedures where the urgency is determined. We state that the legislator himself made the difference between these proceedings and that in Article 9 which regulates the deadlines in the examination procedure. The Government has not accepted the amendment for the reason that the two months is an optimal period, given the content of the proceedings under appeal, and in particular taking into account the 15-day deadlines for the submission of the report by the Judges, or the President of the Greater or Public Prosecutor, the time for which the President of the Court is required to examine the report and the case files, as well as to apply the criteria for the assessment of the duration of the trial within a reasonable period. We wonder how two months can be an optimal time limit in cases where, for example, an emergency procedure? So, to limit myself to not counting on regular procedures. It is the procedures in which the first hearing is scheduled in 15 days. If the procedure is delayed, and we still give extended deadlines in the procedure for the exercise of the right to trial within a reasonable period, we will lead to a delay in the decision-making procedure under appeal or appeal for the exercise of the right within a reasonable period of time, which will also lead to the unthinking of the whole of this law and to more complicated proceedings in court, to the burden of the President of the Court and to the refusal of parties to exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27534	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27535	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, from the presentation of an esteemed colleague, you might get the impression that she's absolutely right. Perhaps you would be absolutely right by submitting this amendment if we ignore two things, one that we all know, and yet that is the situation in which our judiciary is located and I am, here, the first one who advocates that after a period of time, whether it is two, three or five years, when we come into a situation that we have significantly more frequent appointments than today and that the court procedure is much more effective than it is today, that we reduce this deadline. The second reason is the fact that this is about the European Court of Human Rights standard from Strasbourg. It often happens that some things that we think of here ourselves, say and there are things that I can quite agree with you, but when you sit down with experts who represent the Council of Europe and talk about some bill, or draft law, simply from you with a particular reason that they're asking for the introduction of a standard of their own. I think it's much less likely that we're wrong to listen to them than if we're trying to do something that doesn't work in our system yet and in our own way, in the previous period, let's say, five, six, seven years ago, we often knew that we were deaf about some Council opinions and recommendations that came from that side and most often, in most cases, the results weren't good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27536	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27537	I fully agree with the minister's argument that the amendment should not be accepted, primarily for the reason that in Article 7(4) of the bill, the Government, or the competent ministry, decidently and explicitly says that the President of the Court is obliged to decide on the objection within two months of the date of receipt of the complaint. So that two-month deadline that's been given here can be shorter. Of course, in no case should we ignore the fact that the judge, the president of the court, is obliged to also ask the judge, or the public prosecutor, and that the judge or the public prosecutor is obliged to deliver the report within 15 days, but that does not mean automatically and decidently 15 days, that deadline can certainly be shorter. And here it appears that Article 9 of this Act concerning the examination procedure is being ignored and that the President of the Court may request the judge or the President of the Council or the Public Prosecutor to submit a report to him in a period of less than 15 days if it is an emergency. What I want to stress is that this proposal for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time in our legal system is trying to introduce effective remedies in the interests of citizens, so that their right to a reasonable period of time will not be violated and that, as in some previous times, the procedures in family relations, it is only after the European Court of Human Rights has confirmed and found that there has been a breach of the right of trial within a reasonable period of time, that the mother waits for the first contact with the child to take place after the European Court of Human Rights ruling, which is eight years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27538	The word has been given by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27539	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to explain to Mr. Secretary. We are familiar with the standards of the European Court of Human Rights, but we felt that since it covers items that come from several countries and has a different scope and scope of work, we could predict shorter deadlines in our domestic legislation. I'm sure they wouldn't mind our shorter deadlines. They'd resent us for longer than standard. To respond to a colleague who says this law introduces effective remedies for the exercise of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. And now there are standards that provide it, but they really aren't effective in practice. Why don't they apply, that's another question. So the question arises – what do we guarantee that we will apply this as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27540	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Ivan Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27541	Consistently in each of the members of the bill, where the "President of the Court" is mentioned, we have submitted an amendment, given the first possibility, that the President of the Court may, by an annual plan, appoint judges who will act on the complaints. We felt that it was necessary, then, for each of the members where the president of the court is mentioned to have the words "that is, the judge determined by the annual schedule of jobs", that this would not be understood if it was said only in one member. This is the article 8 that I mentioned in addition to the amendment submitted by my colleagues, which we asked to talk about a solution that was adopted, rejected or rejected, and then the answer was to talk about rejection here. I still think that, if it is a solution that someone has the right to appeal and a solution that someone does not have the right to appeal, it should be indicated in a member which lists two of the three solutions both the President and the judge will have the jurisdiction to make. Why is it important that we both have the President of the Court and this part of the sentence? Much of this law is about the European Court of Human Rights and the difficulties they have. It is a special paradox that the European Court of Human Rights is late in verdicts due to a large number of cases, and it has been established to prevent, among other things, the practice in many then EU Member States, candidates, some who never thought they would become, there will be trials within a reasonable period of time and there will be justice when a party, i.e. a citizen, exhausts all legal resources in his national state. As much as I am for Protocol Five and as much as I feel it is necessary to make joint efforts in order to have a reasonable trial, I am afraid that the ambiguities that we are paying attention to will have one obvious consequence, which is that there will be fewer cases before the Court of Human Rights for a reasonable trial, or a lack of trial within a reasonable period, because that part of the process will take place at home. I don't argue that it's bad, or that it's good, but until it's over at home, we won't be able to address European instances, and that's why it should be very careful and precise that, through every attitude, through every member, it writes what is their responsibility. It was an idea from which the amendments came, where we add the President of the Court, i.e. the judge who is being added and where we want it to be known that it is the responsibility to make decisions that are adopted, rejected or rejected, as well as the necessary details of what is the party's obligation to make a complaint, and that it would be spoken of at all, in order not to be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27542	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27543	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In particular, according to this amendment, but also to other amendments that, I say, are close to what we are now discussing. I'd have a few notes. We have, as far as I can see, a number of proposals drawn up in the same way, which are proposed to be mentioned wherever the "President of the Court" is mentioned, being referred to as "e.g. the judge designated by the annual schedule of jobs", and there is an explanation everywhere that addresses the reasons that we have received from the Government on amendments of the same motions to Article 7, for very obvious reasons, because the proposer himself in the reasons for his amendments calls for his amendment under regular number 1, and that is the amendment to Article 7. I think that's how we should read what we got as an opinion, or calling on one and the same thing in the conclusion. The second thing I wanted to mention, by adopting this amendment, would not be wrong to accept this and these, although there were good reasons not to adopt the amendment to Article 7 because it insisted that the President of the Court be prevented from dealing with this problem, which would be a total unnecessary burden. So, I don't think it should have been accepted, but if we had accepted this amendment and we wouldn't have made such a mistake, because the original text provides that the annual schedule should be set by certain judges who will deal with these issues, that through the annual plan the President of the Court will determine them. So it wouldn't be wrong, but even if it wasn't adopted, there's no problem, there's no cohesion. Why there is no conflict, because Article 7 of Article 2 puts in place equivalence in necessity and rights between the President of the Court and those judges he has appointed to deal with these issues. Transitionally, it is then transmitted through the text wherever the President of the Court mentions this right, i.e. those obligations, and to those judges whom he himself has designated to deal with these issues, which he did through the annual schedule. So there won't be any harm unless it's adopted, although once again, it wouldn't be wrong if it were. Therefore, since I have already done so on the subject of the amendments of another group, I would like to ask that we do not spend extra time and energy on discussions on amendments concerning this same matter. It's the same reason everywhere, or the conclusion would be the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27544	The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27545	Thank you. It's an amendment to Article 8, so agreeing to give unquestioned advice to a dear colleague, please listen to which amendment it is, to Article 8, not Article 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27546	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27547	I welcome and draw from my side, so listen to each other, that's more than we need. As I have started the discussion, I have also discussed the amendment to Article 8 and I have also mentioned any other amendments which are the same as this amendment here and resulting from what the Proposer has proposed in his amendment to Article 7. That's another literally all, and the call from a little while ago, I repeat that we are not wasting time discussing other amendments that, like now, in Article 8, will call for the same thing, because the conclusions are the same, identical to those that I've just said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27548	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27549	Anyone who advises listening would have to hear the ears well, since my search for an amendment to Article 8 was completed before you called. You haven't mentioned it once in article 8, we can watch it in a stenogram. So, really, unsolicited advice accepted, a little listening, and when we want to look like we understand what we're talking about, we don't really understand, because dialogue serves to hear each other and listen to each other. Article 8 is over, I said everything I had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27550	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr Arsic, the Honorable guest of the ministry, my amendment in this case to Article 8 is in direct connection with our amendments to Article 7 and I would just like to point to two things that may be important for our further discussion. First of all, I can't understand Mr. Arsic when, for example, I read at one point the government's argument of not accepting this amendment, and then after that, Mr. Orlic comes forward and says how come you didn't read the government's explanation and I just read it? I don't think it's appropriate for someone to get up, blame someone else for not reading it, and he's just read it before. I agree here with Mrs. Comic, it is very important that we listen to each other while we have a discussion here. I also cannot understand when a National MP, once again Mr Orlic, our amendment debate, Mr Arsic, here is this case in relation to the amendment to Article 8, which I submitted to Section 1, that we should not waste time on this debate. I have a dictionary here with respect, gentlemen, says - to waste time - to waste time. It is not appropriate for an amendment debate in one Assembly, especially in that Assembly that has such status in our constitutional system as the most important political institution here says it is a waste of time. We can say we use time, we can say use of time, but we can say waste of time, even when the minister says that we are right about a large number of amendments, respected gentlemen, please, not only listen carefully but also choose carefully the words we use in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27552	From 122 seconds on the amendment, you spoke exactly seven. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27553	I welcome the compliment, I agree that we should take advantage of the time we have in the best possible way. I agree we should talk. In that sense, I remind you of my invitation to read the arguments. We didn't get those words from distinguished colleagues that we were able to look at in an explanation. That's why I'm understood so we'd understand them if we'd possibly missed them. As far as spending time, I ladies and gentlemen would be more than happy, I would be extremely happy if this place would affect people so that everything you say here has to be good, useful and wise. More than happy, believe me. Unfortunately, the sad fact is that it's not so, so you can hear what's-what's not too useful here, it's not too important, and it doesn't fill our time, not us, or those people watching us. In that sense, sometimes I intervene, but if the choice of words we talked about will help us understand each other better, I withdraw the call not to waste time. Instead of him, I call on us not to use time the wrong way. I think it's much better now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27554	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27555	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, looking back on this high-minded amendment, I'm going to tell an anecdote about Napoleon. A man came to him who boasted to Napoleon in the following way, he said: put this little sewing needle in about 30 meters, and then ran with a full sprint and put a thread in that needle. Then Napoleon told him -- well done for doing it. He says I've been practicing this for 25 years. Then Napoleon ordered that he get 25 lashes on his butt, because it's as useless and pointless as this amendment, which is completely pointless and useless. That's all I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27556	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27557	The amendment submitted by the SPS parliamentary group via me to Article 8(2) has only tried to specify what is in the text of the bill, obviously stated somewhat and excessively. What's this about? The objection is said to be dismissed if the absence of a mandatory element of the objection makes it impossible to act on it. This automatically withdraws the effect that this objection is messy because it does not contain any of the elements prescribed by Article 6. Then it is added, if the objection is lodged by an unauthorized person. The procedural lack of submission by an unauthorized person is already contained in Article 6, which again points to the lack of integrity of the objection. Therefore, we felt that perhaps a much simpler formulation of this text would be to reject the objection if it did not contain any of the elements prescribed by Article 6(2) of this Act or if it was premature. Of course, it must be accepted that the proponents, i.e. the government that I have received are concerned that in the event of a possible and different solution, there may be a delay in the proceedings. However, this in our view is just an attempt at a more precise formulation, but what is the essence of the amendment is not only the accuracy of the formulation, because it can in principle remain the same as is stated in the proposal, but the problem is that already in the next text of the same article, namely the attitude states that a solution to the rejection of the objection is not allowed. There is a serious problem here, because if we face the principle of two-stageness or allowing the party to declare the complaint, regardless of my acceptance of the full concern or caution of the promoter not to delay the proceedings, we are standing at the point of view of the party's protection. We believe that the party must have the right to appeal, as the question arises whether a decision to dismiss, if we talk about rejection because of irregularities, can possibly be wrong or misused by its authority? What are we going to do in the situation if exactly in those positions that we were talking about under point 6 and point 7, the data is given, but the solution maker thinks that these data are not enough and rejects the solution? The party is blocked in this situation and there is no possibility of using a legal remedy, although it is possible that its proposal is absolutely orderly. Therefore, the position taken is that it should nevertheless allow the possibility that, even in the case of procedural decision-making, the rejection, the right of appeal as a legal remedy and thus allow the party and, of course, the multi-stage body to reconsider the decision and thereby carry out a kind of correction and supervision of the work of the first-degree body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27558	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27559	In Article 8(2), we ask that changes be made and that the existing text should be deleted: “If the complaint is premature. ” I think, since it's my personal amendment, it's a big trap that can come up with this law, and it's not the only one. The term "premature objection" is not clear, and that is precisely why this formulation can lead to the judge's rejection of the objection because it considers that the trial is still taking place within a reasonable period of time, and this is not the reason for the rejection of the objection, but rather for the refusal of the objection. Not to explain what's the difference between rejection and rejection. Rejection is a processive action, and rejection is a measurement decision. So, what's too early? Based on what court practice, on what experience, based on what statistics, how can anyone estimate that something is premature? Maybe some dispute could be over in a month and some in two years. I think with this formulation that's in the current text we've had a big problem with the application of this law. Practically any possibility of appeal due to an inadequate trial date may be rejected with this case. That's why we're demanding that we examine this one more time, analyze it one more time. I think the arguments are clear and the decision can be quick and efficient. Finally, colleagues who are in a hurry somewhere, who have better jobs than to sit in parliament, should go, but continue to insult parliament by having no time, to assess the spending of time one way or another, so there is no other job for MPs but to sit in parliament and discuss the well-being of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27560	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27561	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to these two amendments, I can only instruct applicants to read in more detail Article 13(1). The bill will make it more clear to them how much more this solution is in favour of the party itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27562	Mr. Zivkovic, you have no right to clarify. You want straight to the replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27563	The reason for the replica is that the reasoning for which this position has been rejected does not specify Article 13(1) and does not state anything to do with that member. I expect from the minister of justice, who speaks of himself as a kind of lawyer, to the MP, who is one of 250 people who are part of the legislative authority, that the answer that is meaningful, professional and politically correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27564	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27565	You know, you can always give a meaningful answer to a meaningful question, but when it's pointless, then it's pointless and the answer. But I am glad that we have now heard an incredible coin – that your answer is politically correct. I thought the time of socialism was over here and the dictatorship of the Communist Party, that we don't have it anymore, but someone seems to like such answers, thinking that we are delegates to the Communist Union here and that we should get politically correct answers. I think we should get expert answers, and on Mr Selakovic's expertise, perhaps his colleagues at Law School could say something, and hardly they could say anything about people who passed the university or possibly saw him on the postcard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27566	Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27567	Here comes another self-proclaimed good student. As far as I know, he's failed his master's or doctoral studies one seven times, but that's not the subject I'm dealing with. The only question is that someone can be 30-40 years old and that the term "politically correct" binds to socialism is a disaster. That's really scary. I do not know under which glass bell, or other object that devises a view in the distance forward and into the future, can live someone who binds the term “politically correct” to socialism. National socialism has something to do with socialism, because it also contains the expression socialism in its name. That tendency of yours to not repeat, the form of political action from the late 1990s and early twenty-thousands, has nothing to do with anyone's expertise here. In the end, since there are several MPs and perhaps ten, who obviously have a task or, worse, the natural need to keep jumping and explaining what the minister needs to explain, so one says - we should reject this amendment, only the minister can refuse, and MPs vote on the amendment. There their love for the minister, which is natural or unnatural, can nevertheless be shown in a simpler way. By approaching to kiss the minister, kneeling before him, thanking him for being present, not harassing opposition MPs working here for the benefit of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27568	Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27569	You know, when someone learns, they might fall, but when someone doesn't learn, they seem to get a grant for vineyards in this country. That's how you do it in this country. When you mentioned that national socialist movement, you applied these methods while you were prime minister during the "Sabbe" action. You've suspended people's right to an attorney. Don't talk about it, about what national socialism means. These methods we had the opportunity to see in your time, because you arrested people past any legal basis. You held them in prisons, without the right to an attorney, and these are even these NGOs, who are running around you today, who could establish, from "Human Rights Fruit" to "I don't know who." Perhaps you too admire someone who led that movement because you were using their methods. And, don't, please, about your expertise, because you know, sometimes you have to read something in your life to comment on someone. It seems that you have only been able to read those contracts by which you have received subsidies for vineyards that you have never had to return to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27570	Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27571	To put aside the eternal fear of a group of people in Serbia from any work, and especially from the work that produces something, from any physical activity that brings someone good to him or to the family or to the wider community, but around the "Sabbe" action - proud. Every time you mention her, I'm proud. For vineyards, when you have time, or when there is a debate on this subject, I am ready to give my opinion and knowledge, which is not at the level of high profession, but is at the level of good knowledge. There is, of course, nothing legal or moral or in any way negative. It's as clear as day. Because you're afraid of the bait, it'll come back to you. Motika comes to a man sometimes. The issue of national socialism and "Sablje" are completely two incompatible things. Anyone who reads the newspaper, and now there are these modern means of communication, and in 2003, knows that Yugoslavia, but, of course, the dominant Serbia, by its size, was admitted to the Council of Europe at the time of the implementation of the "Sabbe" action, that we have returned to many other international institutions at the same time, yes, less importantly, many international institutions and domestic ones, but above all, Serbian citizens, when you say "Sabbe" think of a good time. I'm not happy that it happened, I'm not happy that it had to happen, but what was done in that action serves the honor of all the people who took part in it...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27572	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27573	... First of all, to the cops and the people of the judiciary. If it made someone go back to Orthodoxy, I'm happy about it, too, I see some getting baptized there.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27574	Right on line, Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27575	Yes, we have heard something truly fascinating from the MP in question, and that is that it is very good that he has facilitated the pockets of Serbian citizens because they have to pay for this action "Sabbe", fat to pay for it, because you arrested people without any legal basis and held them without the right to an attorney. The only person in the world who hated lawyers was Hitler. He explicitly hated lawyers, and you seemed to hate lawyers because you didn't allow anyone to have the right to an attorney all the way out there. So much for that humanity. You know, I don't have a lot of time to talk about vineyards with you, so maybe some other organs should come with you. As for the hoax, not to be ashamed, I'm very proud. And grandfathers, and rich fathers and many others were engaged in farming, still, thank God, they did, but they couldn't get an apartment on Vracar, like you, because they couldn't get a grant from the state, and you got it and you got an apartment on Vrakar. I would be ashamed, and you, unfortunately, are not, and therefore she has a folk proverb, because you are proud of the action "Sabbe", which she is ashamed of, indeed, the other one is proud, and you are proud of such an action that the whole world is normally ashamed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27576	We're done. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27577	Rules of Procedure have been broken, Mr. Chairman, Article 107. We are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which elects and resolves the governments of the Republic of Serbia. We are in the National Assembly, which also elected the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. That someone in this hall, although I admit, had never politically agreed, that someone in this hall said - Serbian citizens remember as a good time, the time from March-April 2003, when one man was killed, when the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia was killed at the time, at the very least, the humiliation of the National Assembly. Such a statement, Mr. Chairman, is scandalous for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to suggest to you what it takes to do, I'm not a pronoun, or anyone who represents punishment in the National Assembly, but that's the kind of statement he predicts and expects you to sanction it, and I'm sure that public opinion on such a thing will have an extremely negative view. The murder of a man in Serbia, that the good time for Serbia and for Serbian citizens is, at the very least, scandalous.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27578	Let me just answer my colleague, Babic. I can't say I disagree with most of your discussion, Mr. Granny. People's MPs often abuse the Institute and replicas and violations of the Rules of Procedure and all this here we can sanction those who chair the session of the Assembly, but I think the best sanction is the one that citizens give in the first next election and the price of the work of all of us. Are you satisfied? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I agree. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27579	You have injured the Rules of Procedure under Rule 103 by allowing the previous speaker to abuse the Institute of Injure the Rules of Procedure, by not speaking in any word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, or by pointing out what you have hurt the Rules of Procedure, what you should have done or what you have done wrong. Serbian citizens know very well what happened on March 12th 2003. Serbian citizens know very well what happened after and what was my place and role in the post-murder events, the assassination of Zoran Djindjic. It wasn't Zoran Djindjic who was killed. He was killed by those who opposed Serbia to moving forward, motivated and by those who warned Zoran Djindjic that Tito had some problems with his leg before he died, which is your president of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27580	Mr. Zivkovic, I think you overstepped those powers with Article 103, which regulates that the MP has the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, counterpart Zoran Babic spoke of a 107 member who defined the dignity of the National Assembly and explained why he felt that the dignity of the National Assembly was violated in his presentation. What you've kept saying is I can't treat anything else than trying to replicate it through the Rules of Procedure Institute and I can't give you any more words on this matter. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I demand votes. ) The National Assembly will declare on the day of the vote this breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now we're going to proceed to the amendment. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27581	Thank you. The Minister's reply concerns Article 13(1) and was given in response to the question of rejection. Article 13 is about rejection. So it wouldn't be bad to make a very clear difference between what happens when the objection is rejected and what happens when the objection is rejected. When fellow Zivkovic submitted this amendment, it was the minister's reply that he did not read Article 13(1). His amendment refers to rejection, the attitude you quoted - the refusal. Two different things, so we determined even when I asked you to... It seems that MP Vladimir Djukanovic has taken the advice of MP Zoran Zivkovic, so I will wait for the activity to end. Thank you. It wouldn't be bad, not for accepting or rejecting the amendments, but for clearly separating what a rejection is and what a rejection is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27582	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27583	Thank you. This amendment, which I have submitted with my colleagues, is consequent, i.e. strategic, with the addition of "the judge designated by the annual schedule of jobs" after "The President of the Court". In paragraph 3, where we intervened by adding the same words, there is one question that we may be able to clarify during this debate. Paragraph 3 of Article 9 states: “The President of the Court may request that his case files be delivered to him if, in view of the content of the objection, he considers that they should be examined. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” We, apart from asking to be a judge determined by an annual plan, want to give an illustration of one, to make sure that our approaches are thorough and that people may benefit from this debate much more than they seem. For example, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia undoubtedly holds statistics on the time of the end of small-value litigation litigation. It's supposed to be the right to immaterial damage arising from, we've conducted a trial with a judge who's been designated, with the President of the Court, anyway. So we've conducted a procedure to establish a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. They are entitled to immaterial damage by suing the Republic of Serbia and by establishing a small-value litigation process. In this case, the president of the court received such a case, it is a litigation of small value, asking for the case to be examined to work on the content of the complaint. It enters, if all is well and if it makes a good decision, does not reject and refuse, objecting to what guarantees are that the lawsuit will pay off the immaterial damage that will be taken against the state of Serbia and that it will be completed within a reasonable time. Whether or not we will re-apply the provisions of the Law on the Protection of the Right of Judgment within a reasonable period of time in case of breach of a reasonable period of time. So that's possible, and I'm also attached to your answer that I don't think I do, but okay, I understand that after four months if you're rejected after five months and so forth, but these are the two disputes that are tied together. So it's not about the government's position to refuse an amendment, I understand that, but it's about a number of litigation disputes of a small-value dispute that you'll first see in the application of this law. Well, it wouldn't be, because I think that the debate on amendments has one of the main objectives of dialogue with the promoter, that those who need to see the application of the law clear up various misunderstandings. That means I consider it a priority, a debate on amendments, and that's why I have a negative attitude, a very negative attitude that I call allergy to the rule of law to challenge the idea of amendments, that's amazing, amazing. It's allergic to the rule of law and to the unconscious that we are talking about amendments here, not because you would accept mine or that I was funny or less funny about what we did to the lecturers, but because someone who's in a slow little value of litigation can hear from you the answer as to how you see or how it is the next step when the law is applied, I think it's important to people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27584	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27585	I thank the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, shortly after I had no right to answer when I said so, so now I can. So, in addition to Article 1 that I was aiming at what you were talking about prematureity, it was more crucial here for the earlier amendment to item 4. Therefore, Article 13(4) which clearly states – the party whose objection or appeal has been rejected may immediately submit a new complaint for the reason for which the complaint has been rejected, remove that reason and it may be taken into consideration, of course, if it is not premature. As for what you're now talking about about your amendment to Article 9. Unfortunately for us in Serbia, there are small-value litigation procedures that last for several years, and it can be found that there is material damage done, not material damage to strangers who to a trivial one, we would say a thing, waiting 10 years. On the other hand, we have one act of our courts not to talk about a special case, I speak generally when the Republic of Serbia is sued, you will not believe, but the interesting thing is to make an express decision. It's one of the fastest procedures when you sue the state for no material damage. I can also give my political opinion on it, I have the right to do so. It seems to me that sometimes a judge in such cases treats them like they're not the judges of this state or they're not from around here. I'll remind you at a time when you were part of the executive authority, that is, a provision of the Law on Procedural Procedure was passed, in which cases, when you sued the state, the obligation to go to mediation was foreseen. Later, we were forced to change it because we were objected to, just to finish the sentence, excuse us from Europe, but it's simply one of the practical conditions we're facing that new court procedure that we can run this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27586	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27587	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, with all the risk of this being declared an allergy to the rule of law and with some regret that my proposal from the amendment to Article 8, apparently not accepted by the amendment promoter, there have been some calls for a stenogram to be consulted, I support, so there will certainly be my opinion on the content of the amendment on Article 8. The same shall apply to this amendment to Article 9 as the amendment itself is identical. Besides, my call still stands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27588	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The word is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27589	Another member who can lead to the relativization of this law, which I hope with goodwill and a good idea has begun to be created, but as I have said before, if it is not corrected in an adequate way, it will hardly be usable. Here is our proposal for Article 9(1) to change and it is said that the examination procedure begins with the request of a well-established judge or a public prosecutor in the basic procedure, to deliver a report to him within a period of no less than five working days or more than 15 days. The text of the bill formulates this - to deliver a report within 15 days, and then goes further, it can shorten the deadline. So if that deadline is determined in one law, in one sentence, and the next sentence relativizes, and says – the judge can shorten that time limit, then there is no need to set a deadline. If the deadline is already set then it should be more precise. That's why this solution I'm offering in this amendment is more specific. This means that the deadline may be reduced, but it cannot be shorter than five working days, nor longer than 15 working days. The explanation for which this amendment was rejected is something that is not worth reading. It says – it is not accepted for the reasons mentioned for not accepting the amendment of MP Vladimir Pavicevic as a member of 7. So the amendment to Article 9 that I have submitted is not accepted for the reasons that are indicated for the refusal of the amendment of MP Pavicevic to Article 7. It's probably a good way of showing the government's relationship to the MPs. He says, this provision is also foreseen in the interest of the party and the effective conduct of the objection. It means that if a judge can suddenly cut deadlines, it's in the interest and it's nonsensical...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27590	Mr. Zivkovic, you may not hear me, but time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27591	Turn off the microphone like you do every day. Do you think I should stop the exposure? Well, turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27592	Please, I don't understand you now that you object when it comes to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27593	Turn off my mic on the Rules of Procedure when he's complaining.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27594	If that's what you want and you think, then I can do it that way, although I think it's more cultural to remind you of your time, not that I'm now being rude to you by simple exclusion. Okay, don't argue, Mr. Zivkovic. There's no real reason. Here you go, Mr. Eagle.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27595	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So just try to be helpful to my fellow amendment promoters. In response, the Government called for an explanation given on the amendments to Article 7 because the amendment promoter defined what is said in the following text as a first-degree judge. So wherever that term is mentioned in the following amendments, it is likely that what was said about Article 7 will be called on there because the relationship is obvious.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27596	On what grounds, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Based on the fact that the previous speaker spoke to me, which is me. Please, you have no right to replicate. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27597	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 9 and have proposed that Article 1 be amended in such a way that the examination procedure begins by requiring the President of the Court of Justice or the President of the Council, in the following text, the Judge, or the Public Prosecutor to submit a report to him within 15 days, and if it is a case in which the special law provides for urgent action within three days. The amendment, among other things, is a alignment with our amendment that we have submitted to Article 7. A bill of this law. In addition to being of paramount importance, the amendment sets out as an imperative standard a shorter time limit for the judge's conduct in procedures in which the special law provides for urgent action, which is in line with the purpose and objective of the draft law. Our amendment was not accepted, with the government's argument that it would not be accepted for the reason that the amendment of MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aide Corovic, to Article 9, was accepted. The bill, which is more comprehensive and contains a similar solution. We accept that the amendment that colleagues have submitted, perhaps more comprehensive and comprehensively, does not contain a precise reduction in the time limit for emergency cases, but says it is being resolved within a short period of time and we welcome the adoption of their amendment. That way, our amendment is included in part. I want to use it to say that I am sorry that my colleague Arsic is not present at the moment, because he chaired until a moment ago and I didn't want to report to the Rules of Procedure at the time and to point out that I am in violation of the Rules of Procedure, but for the sake of the public, I must now say that I believe that he has injured the Rules of Procedure because he allowed the dignity of the Assembly to be injured, when colleagues, in the examples of the instructions here, were compared with Napoleon and Hitler. That Napoleon case, is it supposed to mean that MPs who submit amendments are supposed to get beat up? I think you should take care of dignity. I don't doubt my colleague, the chairman, that you would do it, but I had to point to this. In addition, as for the constant appeal that we don't waste time or use time, I think we've shown our activities so far that we're very constructively trying to influence the improvement of the text of the law. We can disagree, the amendments can not accept or accept and a lot of amendments have been accepted so far, which shows our constructive work. So I don't think it's correct to appeal to keep quiet and not explain our amendments, because God is wasting time. I am an MP for the fourth term in this assembly. There are MPs who have a longer internship than I do, but I remember how it was done before. This is the first term in which amendments are not accepted by the government, according to MPs who are in the positional parties, or in the parties in power. If the government does not accept, they will decide further on the fate of the amendment, not on each of our amendments, by several MPs, so who spends time and who abuses time? Thirdly, as far as criticism is concerned for our political culture, whoever has a political culture knows that political dialogue should be conducted, and political correctness means that we all say what we think, to face our opinions, to conduct dialogue, but so we are not offended. Whoever has a political culture knows that, and he won't make any remarks when we speak our opinions and say that we are politically incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27598	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27599	I want Arsic, just one sentence to say, there's Arsic, he's going to react. I can't replicate from this position to you. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27600	I would like to ask a colleague who spoke before me – does she know what happened during "Sablje"? Does he know what human rights are? Does he know what the right to an attorney is? Does he know the Constitution was suspended? Does he know the state of emergency was unconstitutional? A colleague of Djukanovic talked about it. This reminded him of some processes that were conducted in Germany for 35, 36, and 37 years. That's all he said. Does a colleague know that the national assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been banned, as if we were going to raise the uprising here? Does he know the pressure on the media? Does he know the government's office was editing what the papers were going to write? It's all features of dictatorship, and convincing and telling stories about Napoleon, I don't see anything offensive. These are anecdotes that exist in books, magazines, and all that is available to us. But I think that famous action that someone's proud of has caused serious damage. The only thing that was good in that story was that those MPs who voted for that government, who imposed a state of emergency, at least one part of them...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27601	Time, Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27602	... they cancelled obedience to the government of the Republic of Serbia and voted to put a stop to the agenda – a vote of mistrust to the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27603	Biljana, I presume a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27604	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't talk about the "Sabbe" action, I said that an inappropriate comparison with the example set by a colleague about Napoleon, because it was more natural to have 25 beatings per tour there. Does this mean that we who submit amendments should get 25 beats per tour? This is a humiliation to the dignity of this assembly, and I said that dignity was injured when MPs were compared to Hitler, and I did not talk about the regularity of certain procedures during the “Sabbe” action. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: The apostle who spoke now, it is me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27605	Mr. Zivkovic, don't identify yourself with "Sablja", regardless of the function you had at the time. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27606	I think we're getting a bit of an exaggeration here. As far as I know, by our Criminal Code, physical punishment does not exist, as far as I know in the Rules of Procedure, such a thing does not say. I think it's an exaggeration because it's just one simple metaphor. Nothing more. Absolutely nothing more. No one said someone should beat up here. You can experience it however you want, just as you want, but the level at which you experience it speaks of the intelligence you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27607	Please, gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament. I need to intervene a little. I advocate the principles of mutual respect that every MP needs for his colleague, regardless of which party he is from, to be treated in one dignified way by respecting the diversity of opinions and disagreements in certain matters, but that should be said with dignity. In that sense, I'm asking you not to compromise on this right now. That's the principle that you need, and it all depends on us MPs, I ask that in that sense this question, I will give you Biljana more, I think you have a need to say, but I ask you to finish this round of replicas, because we will not perform it, we will only complicate the problem. Here you go, Biljana.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27608	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really sorry this incident turned out when you took over the presidency, but there's something else I need to say. We're not stupid, and this was again an insult to the Parliament and the citizens who chose us, sitting here, calling for an examination of who's smart here and how he can understand things. But I can understand things very well, and I know that there are no measures to punish the physical here, but there is a way of affecting public opinion. I am an MP who has suffered violence on the street as an MP and statements made here affecting citizens who can lead to violence against one of us again. That's why I'm complaining, and that's why I'm asking for protection from statements that can provoke public opinion that will be directed against anyone in this assembly or against any Serbian citizen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27609	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27610	Article 104 and 107, Mr. Chairman. I think the previous speaker also very precisely defined what was the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I must use these two minutes to tell you, Mr. Chairman, that I understand you perfectly when you say you do not approve of demeaning or insulting other MPs. However, I am very sorry, Mr. Chairman, because that finding always comes after insults or too heavy words that are heard here by the majority. So, I ask you to use what you correctly conclude when such a situation arises and not after that situation, because then there would be no need to call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and this was also an injury to MPs and not just the Rules of Procedure. It's not normal, it's not collegiate, it's not parliamentary, it's not democratic, it's not legal and constitutional, if you want to talk to the opposition MPs here that they don't have a certain degree of intelligence, because you know what happens after that? And we know that Mr. Djukanovic is skillfully using metaphors and everything else and no one is guilty and no one has called directly, and then people are getting their heads broken. The group led the country to wars, and "Sabbe" was when the prime minister was killed and the state of emergency, not because someone wanted to do it. I do not understand why MP Arsic, whom I respect, is so excited, let's say, whenever "Sabbe" is mentioned. Why? What's bothering you so much? Because you know that citizens support it. There, that bothers you. Do not let in the heat of the debate anyone say about a letter of honor that was the victim of violence. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: When was the victim of violence? She was a victim of violence. You don't even know what people are doing to you in Serbia anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27611	Thank you. Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27612	You don't even have a record anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27613	Please. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: You know it, everyone in Serbia what they do... ) (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: You were in power... ) (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: You should be ashamed. ) Please, I've excluded the gentleman. I may have made a mistake letting Biljana explain it, and it happened and she herself said it happened past my presidency. I let her explain it by considering it her right to express her feelings after all. In that sense I ask you to finish with this kind of replica, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but well, I only appeal, and you can continue on. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 107 has been injured and I have to act as deputy president of the Parliament Group. Mrs. Hasanovic Korac, say for the citizens of Serbia, for the sake of the public, with all due respect to you as a lady, at what time did violence happen against you and who was in power when you were attacked on the street? (Branka Karavidić, from the scene: What does it matter? ) It has to do because Borko Stefanovic and your former party comrades impute that you were the victim of violence during the rule of the SNS. Tell me, who was the President of the Republic, who was the Prime Minister when you experienced the violence I condemn, but don't lecture the SNS on some kind of violence and violent behavior because you were the victim of violence at a time when your party and your President of the Republic and the President of the Party who was both Prime Minister and Minister and who knows what he wasn't, cheered and clothed this country. Say it. I condemn violence, but then be fair to the end and say – I experienced violence during the reign of my party and not during the rule of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27615	Dear MPs, I've decided to take a break since we haven't had a break, we've completely gone out. You can yell as much as you like, it's my right to hold a session, it doesn't look like a session that's scheduled to discuss amendments anymore, it's now conversing with the Rules of Procedure's injuries. You're all calling for Parliament's dignity, and no one wants to come back to work and discuss the amendments we've gathered for. Yell at me as much as you wish, this is my understanding of Parliament's dignity. Obviously, we're different. A break of half an hour and we will not continue the violations of the Rules of Procedure, a break is given in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when it cannot otherwise affect the establishment of order. [[after breaks]] We continue to work on Article 9 of the amendment... (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. You can't yell at me. Five-minute break. I won't give you my word. A five-minute break, because I can't establish... (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure! You have to give me your word. I was very clear. Vicom, there's nothing you can do about violence against me. I've been resistant to violence for 30 years. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. You've all heard, you're all grown men, how this session is interrupted, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to make order. Abuse of Rules of Procedure – two minutes less. Members of the 9th Amendment were brought together by the MPs... (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. I'm looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. ) Ambassador Janko Veselinović, please all present who wish to work, stick to the Rules of Procedure and stick to the decision I made before the break. Here you go. Don't say I didn't warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27617	Your Honor, you have committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure by Rule 107. When you interrupted the session, you left the microphone on purpose or thoughtlessly, and you said the following words: “Biljana, you cooked all this up. You are responsible for all of this," after which we received in the parliamentary group and MP Biljana Hasanovic more calls. You have in some way called upon the lynch of the People's Messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27618	There was no transmission, and don't twist the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27619	It was in the transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27620	There was no transmission. In accordance with Rule 103, for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, I am taking away your parliamentary group two minutes from the total time. I warned you. I knew what you were going to do. I won't allow you a word. I allow you to sit down. For the sake of the public, because there is a transfer now, I would like to say that the MP has misused the parliamentary provision, calling for the Rules of Procedure and citing something that has not taken place in this room during the transfer and during the course of the session. I'd rather not say what your MPs from the assembly say and what kind of words they use in the break, but I'm not in charge of the school board as well. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27621	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this Article 9 refers to the examination procedure. We have made an amendment to Article 2 of Amendment 2 relating to the report. The proposal said that the report contains a statement on the development of the procedure in time and a proposal for a deadline within which the procedure can be terminated. We have made this article more specific, in our opinion better, and we have said that the report contains: a statement on the evolution of the procedure in time, a statement on the criteria set out in Article 4 of this Act and a proposal for a deadline within which the procedure may be terminated, just as the report by the judge or the president of the council or the public prosecutor, in addition to the content set out in Article 9. The draft law should also have the extent to which the criteria for the assessment of the duration of the trial referred to in Article 4. It's a bill of law. Our amendment has been rejected and I don't want to read the full explanation. You simply felt that this was not necessary in this way to specify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27622	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27623	Article 108 and Article 100. In Article 108, the President of the National Assembly takes care of the order at the meeting of the National Assembly. I think you, Madam President, and the vice presidents, when they replace you, create a riot at the session. How do they create a mess? By having two different criteria in relation to what the ruling parties' MPs say, or practically ruling parties, and what the opposition MPs say. MPs of the ruling party can say anything, anything false from personal life, fiction, half-truth, insult. All this is allowed by system – I can't hear, I wasn't there, I don't know, I didn't realize, it's a specific way of metaphorical expression etc. And you do not give opposition MPs the right to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which was the case just now with counterpart Janko Veselinovic. It is our right to seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure. If we're wrong, it's rejected. There's no need to raise your voice. There's no need to pause to calm the MPs. They're not MPs here who need to be treated, so it takes them a while to calm down, but we came here to discuss it. The order of the session is your duty, not ours. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. You'll say it was the Rules of Procedure brought by someone else. Well, you should have changed it in three years. Finally, under Article 100, the president of the National Assembly, when he chaires the session, if he wants to participate in the search, leaves the presidency to one of the vice-presidents. Neither you nor anyone who changes you to enter dialogue, to document, to make decisions, to criticise MPs, but to report, come down here and report to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27624	Thanks for the suggestion. I really don't want to be part of the debate. There's been no discussion for a long time about the law. I would very much like to talk about the law and professionally, in terms of expertise and practice. As for Article 103 I used, Section 8. speaks of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The abuse of the Rules of Procedure is when you harshly expose the truth and invite the citizens of Serbia to a certain degree of harassment by bringing out false things. That's why there is attitude 8, let me explain to you, and Article 112 speaks about when a break is being set in these situations, when MPs want to talk about the events 15 years ago, and the chairman thinks we should get back to the agenda point. Very clear. Now, the concept of mine and others is probably not the same and they shouldn't be. We're different. I agree with that, but the Rules of Procedure are hurt and I'm perfectly comfortable with this Rules of Procedure. I'm not the one who's gonna initiate the change right now. Do you want to make a statement? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Yes. I thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinovic, once again a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27625	I'm advertising article 27 that says you're obliged to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask you to ask the RTS Public Service for a video from which you will be seen whether what you have said and what I have mentioned you have said has gone into public ether. We have proof that it went into public ether. Please ask for a video, a notice from RTS whether what you said and evaluated my distinguished colleague Hasanovic thus went into the public ether.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27626	Please, how was it evaluated? And that's what matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27627	That it was all her fault and that she cooked it all up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27628	I don't use the word "boiled" except in cafes. So it's a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27629	I don't know, but you said that word because we have people watching.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27630	Thank you. Article 27, let's not argue. I keep trying to apply the Rules of Procedure. I have a little problem that MPs won't apply the Rules of Procedure, and I don't see what's controversial, and since I respect Mr. Zivkovic's opinion that I should come down, I will shut up. So there's no violation of Article 27, because I'm trying so hard to respect the Rules of Procedure. Shall we vote on Rule 27 on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? At what point, since you went back to that breach of the Rules of Procedure that took you two minutes? So, according to the Rules of Procedure you call upon, it has to be done directly, not once again, on another basis, because the first one failed, no matter what the meaning of it all. Yeah. I thank you. Can I get back to work? Thank you. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27631	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, the Honorable Madam and Honored Guests of the Ministry of Justice, I believe that, despite Minister Selakovic's refusal to accept our amendment to Article 7, as long as this debate continues today, there is a chance that the amendment to Article 7, which I have submitted to Article 7, which was submitted by Mr Zoran Zivkovic, and I mention now, respected gentlemen, is an amendment to Article 7 because my amendment to Article 9 of this Bill, here Mr Orlic, is simply not to be imagined whether or not I have read, in direct connection with our proposals for amendments to Article 7 of this Bill proposal. So, what was our idea? I believe that the minister of justice is also prone to review, a kind of advocacy, and while the amendment debate continues that it is possible to correct a good bill. Our idea was that what we considered to be an unwarranted increase in the authority of the president of the courts is that it should be changed. The minister said - no powers are added to the presidents of the courts. We have concluded, however, that they are added, and we suggest that the formulation in Article 7, paragraph 2, and the amendment to Article 9, should read as follows: "The appeal procedure is conducted by the judge with the longest judicial standing in the court, not counting on the president of the court, gentlemen. The term of office of the judge takes one year after the end of which it becomes the competent judge who after the first has the longest court trial, not counting the president, also with a term of office of one year continues to do so." So, we wanted the powers of the president, the esteemed president, to be no greater...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27632	Will you use those five minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27633	I will, I will.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27634	Excuse me, Deputy Secretary says you used it. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes, but you asked me. Yeah, it's my fault, I admit it. It's my fault and you tried to trick me, but the deputy secretary general warned me. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27635	I thank you, Madam President, and I am giving you all the support to introduce this session into regular flows and to talk about the bill's proposals, or the amendments, and I welcome it, without the desire to challenge it in the replica, Mr Pavicevic, because after a long period of time, we have come to talk about the amendments. Yesterday I listened carefully to the course of the session, and at one point we slipped into a debate about words and a kind of regret, which was directed by the proposer of this amendment to Mr Stefanovic not to read, when he proposed the law, the reasoning and that he had therefore made an objection to the law. My main objection to this amendment is because Mr Pavicevic has now been reading the explanation, his explanation, for accepting the amendment. You can't, Mr. Pavicevic, ask for something else you don't use, something you don't use. It is good to hear the word, but everyone has the right in the National Assembly to treat the congregation, to treat other colleagues the way he wants to, whether reading his explanation, whether by making it by heart or by head, but do not suggest to others how they should behave without you acting in the same way. The words, written or spoken or read, apply only to the expression of goodwill and opinions whether they will be read, as Mr Pavicevic or yesterday Mr Stefanovic did, or will be said, however.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27636	The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, the esteemed guest from the Ministry of Justice, is correct, I reminded here yesterday that we had one member of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 43, who read – it is forbidden to read the words in the National Assembly. It is true that I resented Minister Stefanovic when he was there yesterday for what was in the opening statement, rather than explaining what the proposed solutions were, from the first to the last word he read. I thought, as one retor, respected at law school, that Mr. Selakovic understood that. I felt that it was not appropriate for a minister to read the word from beginning to end when he came to the National Assembly, but rather for him to tell us a proposal for a solution and see what it was about. That's when I said before the session to read, during the session, honored gentlemen, to discuss. In my previous speech, Mrs. Gojkovic, I haven't read all the time. I explained one part, and then I am for the accuracy of which Minister Selakovic insists that I read only Article 2 of our amendment, which we propose to amend Article 7. Before that, Mrs. Gojkovic, to hear Mr. Babic, and everything after that was not reading, it was a speech, gentlemen of honor, and the part concerning reading lasted only 15 to 20 seconds. I repeat, only for precision. Why for precision? We're talking about an amendment to one position, one member, one very important bill, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27638	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27639	Where is the rule of law? Where is the rule of law if something that applies to a National MP is not to apply to a minister? How is it that one MP can read an explanation that doesn't last more than two minutes in the Rules of Procedure, and for one broad term, the law, the minister can't do that? Where is the rule of law? I think we need to promote the rule of law in this sanctuary of democracy and that what applies to Members of the public is valid for ministers, to apply to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No selective approach, no right, no state if that's the right selective, if it's true for someone and it's not true for someone. What applies to Mr Pavicevic, will also apply to me, will also apply to Mr Stefanovic and Mr Selakovic. It's the only way and the right way. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27640	There'll be an opportunity. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27641	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I recommend that this amendment be not accepted, regardless of how my dear colleague, Professor, explained it. I keep trying to learn something from his explanation, something that is in practice applicable, and other than “beautiful” that word, I do not see any usefulness. With this, I am not to accept this amendment, and I have finally figured out the difference between knowledge and calling. Calling it undeniable and this academic honesty and academic explanation of this amendment and the beauty of its vocabulary I will not dispute at all, but on the applicability of that knowledge, I have learned nothing. With this, I recommend to the MPs that I, as a farmer, have learned nothing practically in this year about the interpretation of these amendments, I recommend that we not adopt this amendment, no matter how well I explain it in my own way, I think that we have not drawn anything from this knowledge and I fear that we are only needlessly harassing citizens and ourselves. That is why I think with the right that the government has recommended to us, and I recommend that the other MPs not accept Mr Pavicevic's argument and that we do not adopt such an amendment. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27642	Ambassador, apart from the name mentioned, nothing was disputed. We'll agree. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Do you want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Djorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and the Honorable guest from the Ministry of Justice. I've also submitted an amendment to Article 10. The bill and this amendment have also been respected by the gentlemen regarding Article 7 for which MP Zoran Babic has raised a question here, and where is the rule of law when it comes to my approach in discussions on amendments that I and Zoran Zivkovic have submitted to this bill. Here, dear gentlemen, to answer the asked question, I think that is also the order in our National Assembly, all related to the amendment to Article 10, which is directly related to Article 7 of the Honored Gentlemen, where is the rule of law? The rule of law is in Article 3. The Constitution of our Republic, gentlemen. And to inform all this member of the Constitution is divided into two positions. In its first position, the rule of law is the basic assumption of the Constitution and rests on inalienable human rights and an equally important position. Be careful, the rule of law is being exercised through free and direct elections to constitutional guarantees of human and minority rights, the division of power, independent judicial authority and gentlemen, what I think in practical political life with us and these last year and Mr Selakovic, in the last three years does not happen by obeying the Constitution and the law. Jabba sometimes stands in a member of the Constitution when this principle in practice violates where respected gentlemen arrive, and especially from one of the authorities that should be particularly limited, and that is executive authority, and above all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27644	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27645	Madam President, Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I would like to remind you that the amendment to Article 10, which the distinguished counterpart Pavicevic suggested, is replaced by the words "the President of the Court" in the first sentence. One, the only word in these two minutes has not been spoken of on the amendment. It was about the Constitution, it was about the points of the Constitution, and it's good and we respect it, but don't break the Rules of Procedure by talking about everything and everything. I understand that sometimes amendments here are proposed exclusively to be obtained in statistics, in order to gain time, not because of quality debate and reasoning, which is why some amendment is proposed. In two minutes, I listened carefully to one, the only word is not spoken in an explanation, which is why Article 10(1) should say “the first Judge, ” not “the President of the Court. ” It's not the agenda, it's breaking the Rules of Procedure. I will not ask for the violation of the Rules of Procedure to be heard, because I know that counterpart Pavicevic, as a rule, will not be in parliament at the time to perhaps join in voting for some legislative proposal or for some amendment that he proposes, but it is his manner and the citizens of Serbia will recognise it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27646	Thank you. You're absolutely right. I rarely admit when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure that someone is right, I somehow refrained from interrupting the MPs of the opposition because I always get my nose. That's what it went through - on my nose, into a direct transmission to stifle democracy, not to give MPs the opposition to say what they want, etc. Whatever I do to the president or the president is wrong. So you were right, but thank you for not voting on it. It's such a part of me that I'm not good at it. That means I'm on my way. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27647	Thank you, Madam President. I call upon my fellow officers to refuse this amendment as well. I refer to those reasons just used by my colleague Babic during this disfavor. Not because of the incompatibility, this time in the spirit of the amendments debate over the sad fact that we have not heard anything in favor of what should be the reason for the amendment, or for the possible support of the amendment to Article 7 from which we are now drawing the need to intervene over and over again. I remind you, I have called upon distinguished colleagues, if we have any new details, a new view of the situation, new arguments or comments on what were arguments against, to present them. Unless we do, we should respect our colleagues a little bit more and the place where we are and the people who sent us. It's not the point of repeating a certain number of times the same thing. The point is to find some good reasons to support what we want to achieve, if there are. I'm afraid as long as we have this kind of behavior in play today, it's obvious they don't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27648	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27649	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment is unacceptable because the president of the court has been given the right to consider changing the objection to a first-degree judge. This is a proposal for an amendment that the Proposer tried to amend this law. He called for constitutional principles, the rule of law. The rule of law is a rule of law and nothing is disputed to use it in the sake of its amendment, but it is disputed because in a party whose rule of law has brought the defendant to two months of detention without a lawyer. So they have to solve themselves when they advocate the rule of law, then it's respect for the human rights that he spoke of in the context of the amendment. Respect for human rights isn't when the president of your party shuts people down for two months and doesn't allow them the right to a lawyer, ever since you arrest 12,000 people who don't have the right to two months to use the services of a lawyer, to use the right to defend themselves, then whoever's talking about it, and they've applied such a rule of law, then I don't know what a hypocrisis is, I don't know what hypocrisy is, but I certainly know from today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27650	Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27651	Article 10 of that Article 3 is amended and read – the judge and the public prosecutor in the main proceedings do not have the right to appeal against the solution to be adopted. This is what we have done, or I am signing this amendment, because this amendment should do so in order to harmonise the objective defined by the amendment to Article 5(1). If we're in the way, if I'm in the way, we can get out. I'd like to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27652	It's common, you've been a Parliamentarian for many years, you don't mind, you're just busy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27653	But you're intruding by breaking into my word, by not listening to what others say that, I said earlier, MPs of power who didn't say one word, but they didn't say one letter about the amendment, so you don't hear it. I'm really asking you to seduce...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27654	I didn't know MP Pavicevic was in the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27655	No, to inform you that after Mr. Pavicevic two speakers spoke. You can take a look at that in a stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27656	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27657	I'm really asking you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27658	Okay, if you'll let me...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27659	I can't let you do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27660	... to act in the same manner as the apostle Pavicevic. You don't have to let me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27661	I can't let you do anything, let me spend my...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27662	You've been harassing me for as long as you want, but the session's gonna go, so it's gonna go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27663	I don't think I'm harassing anyone, especially you. But let me spend my two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27664	I'm trying as hard as I can. But MPs are all mature and grown-up people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27665	But trying to get someone to work 18 hours a day, if he's doing stupid things all the time, I don't think about you, it's not for anybody. So it's not about trying, it's about finishing the job. And you are not set up and chosen to try, but to lead the session. So, it's a member... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27666	Ambassador, your time has passed, useless.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27667	And what you were saying in my time, it's okay, right? You just told Mr. Babic who warned you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27668	Ambassador, here's to not trying to use the Rules of Procedure. I'm not really what else to do? Explain to me what I should do to be satisfied both the position and the opposition? If I let it speak beyond the subject, it's okay, when I let the MPs on the left.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27669	Don't waste my time under a.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27670	It's not right when I let the MPs on the right. Here, I'll exclude you from making an observation that I'm leaving the MPs with microphones. If I say it's past time, they say it's not past time, you have to let us talk as much as we want. If I try to apply the Rules of Procedure, one goes for the other. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: give me a word of advice. I won't give you my word. That's what we're gonna do past the debate. If I take a break in accordance with Article 112, you say – you can't do it. Really, don't bother me at work. You really do the MPs mobbing with me. It's a classic mobing over the President of Parliament. Whatever I do, we'll tell him it's not good, and it's like that in the pub. Why did you look at me, because you didn't look at me? Don't, please, let's go to that level. Let's work. Don't harass the president or the chairman. Whoever sits here, I notice it's no good. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: you're not bored? No, it's not. I love my job. So I can never get bored. I especially like to discuss laws for the benefit of citizens, because this is a very important law to them. MP, I understand, the judges and the public prosecutor in the main proceedings have no right to appeal against the solution to be adopted. We'll try to get someone to talk about it. If not, there's a system to let you say what anyone wants, in the time they have and to finish the session and that way, without the president's involvement. We'll just measure the time and say - the session is over. That's fine. Here's a word from Ambassador Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27671	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest you do not adopt not to vote in favour of the amendment submitted by my fellow farmer, for the simple reason that I do not see what is in paragraph 3 of the amendment, except by adding the word "in the basic procedure". We don't know what kind of procedure this is? Is it possible that this is a criminal case against people who have abused their position, is it a basic procedure that can be criminal if we question the way some subsidies were given, I don't know what the basic procedure is? That is why I propose to my fellow Members that it is better not to vote for this amendment, that it is better to winecut and thus refuse this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27672	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27673	Of course, there is no basis for the acceptance of amendments relating to Article 10, and otherwise for the decision on the objection following the examination procedure and there is no reason for the amendment to be accepted because the amendment promoter asks that, instead of the President of the Court, which examines the report and the case files and applies the criteria for the assessment of the duration of the trial within a reasonable period of time, Article 4, requires that, instead of the President of the Court, he be a first-degree judge. Since this proposal of the law is clearly and precisely regulated to whom the appeal is brought, i.e. that the appeal is brought to the court in which the case is located, it absolutely does not have to be a first-degree judge or it does not have to be a fundamental court and that is certainly why this amendment should not be accepted. The decision given in Article 10 by the Ministry or Government is fully justified and fully in line with the decision on the complaint following the examination procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27674	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27675	I thank you, President. This amendment cannot be accepted for the reasons I cited in the principle debate. It is the procedural shortcomings of the proposal itself, as well as the amendment. There's too much norm here. What's this about? A violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period can only be sought by a party. The violation of law doesn't apply to either the prosecutor or the judge. On the other hand, only the prosecutor and the judge by their actions which are contrary to what is stated in the law, or in the spirit of abuse of procedural powers, or in any other way breach of the law at the expense of the party, may be the only reason why the party is seeking a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period. Then it would be absolutely pointless and unsuspecting that the public prosecutor and the judge have the right to appeal. How would it be observed if the judge making the verdict had the right to appeal in the event of the proceedings being conducted further, and his judgment was decided? So something that is an absolute legal nonsens in procedural law, so that this amendment can also be interpreted in that direction, and in no case can the procedural and legal aspect be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27676	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27677	I thank you, President. With this amendment, the SPS parliamentary group, as pointed out in the principle debate through me as an authorised representative, tried to remove something that we believe is primarily practitioners, which are judges, difficult to accept. It's about what happened. orders from the judge, or the public prosecutor, and these are related to the taking of the so-called effective process actions. Now the question here is, what are effective process actions? Well, effective are all those procedural actions that are contained in the provisions of the law. There is nothing that is the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on Off-parveillance Procedure, the Law on Administrative Procedure, the Law on Enforcement and Security, as regards procedural legal institutes, is systematised as ineffective. Everything's working. It is also effective when the legal institute of concentration of evidence is applied. It is also effective to respect the time frame of the trial, i.e. to protect the trial within a reasonable period of time. It is also effective when, within the concentration of the process, all evidence is carried out effectively, when there is no delay in carrying out the evidence. It's all effective. There is no other process action that would be more effective than those already contained in the provisions of the law. Therefore, we felt that it was only enough for one who decided to decide by order to speed up or end the proceedings, and taking effective procedural actions, in particular with a particular order, to be interpreted by the judges as an impact on his independent work. Because the question is, what is it going to be in the solution to indicate which effective process action should be taken? If what the Law on litigation and other procedural laws are already being applied, then second-degree decisions already state which infringements were committed in the first degree, which are essential infringements of the proceedings, in which case there has been an incorrect determination of the factual situation and in which way material law, material law in criminal proceedings, etc. is incorrectly applied. Therefore, there are no specific effective procedural actions that could play a more significant role here, especially in terms of what the decision-maker is obliged to do in terms of respect for procedural laws, no matter what procedural law is involved than those I have mentioned. In addition, we in the SPS parliamentary group felt that it was also necessary to introduce a deadline within which the President of the Court is required to inform the President of the court about the actions taken. That deadline for us was to be defined for 15 days, and we think that's exactly the time limit that's already laid down in the law. As for at least that deadline, according to us, there was no reason not to adopt in this part of the amendment. Since we are business aware that the amendment cannot be adopted in part, I suggest that the amendment be reconsidered in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27678	The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and the Honorable guest of the Ministry of Justice, I believe that during today's debate you have done a very good thing twice. Once you accepted our amendment to Article 24, and the second time you did not accept this amendment to Article 11, proposed by Mr Neđo Jovanovic. Because Mr. Neđo Jovanovic, since I am now talking about the amendment to Article 11, has offered a less precise formulation that follows the logic that you are advocating, and that, dear Mr. Selakovic, means the opposite of the logic that we advocate here in the National Assembly. I must confess to you once, Mr Selakovic, that it was a good procedure, therefore, which was not accepted by Mr Neda Jovanovic's amendment and that your reasons for not accepting it was good. As for this amendment of ours, or my amendment to Article 11, I think this amendment is contrary to Mr Orlic's assessments, Babic, or for example. Djukanovic, who is just pointing to respected presidents, is one of our people's MPs' commitment to the New Party. Be careful how complex it is when, because of the substitious member of the 7th bill, we have focused so much attention on this bill, that later we have changed Article 11, so we have warned of Article 5. Then, in an explanation of why it is not accepted and the Proposer tells us – it is also rejected because of reasons for not accepting Article 5 and because of reasons for not accepting Article 7, which means that time has been directed towards repairing members of this bill. There's no statistics here. Please, Minister Selakovic, to confirm here that our amendments were not a matter of statistics but of a proposal for substantial changes that go towards improving the content of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27680	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27681	Thank you, President. I will thank Minister Selakovic in another way. I will thank him first of all for not accepting amendments to politicize the reasons for all the amendments, and even what we heard from my esteemed colleague Pavicevic, who, unfortunately, is not a lawyer who obviously did not understand the essence of the amendment that I highlighted. We can face opinions, but these opinions must be solely based on what legal knowledge means, at least basic legal knowledge. In a particular situation, we had this opportunity and the minister responded on my first amendment, and of course I had no intention of developing controversy, but it was a professional conversation in terms of words. Any other confrontation involves politicisation, so in that sense thank you for not accepting Mr Pavicevic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27682	Here's a line, because the MP said you didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored President Mrs Gojkovic, Honored Minister Selakovic, Honored guest and respected guest from the Ministry of Justice, two things I now wish to say in the replica not to Minister Selakovic, and I think for the first time today rather than to my fellow MP, Nedji Jovanovic. For the first time, gentlemen, it has happened to me that in my not-so-rich parliamentary experience, it lasts a year these last days, for the first time, I have been told by the amendment that the amendment's proposed words of gratitude to the legislator that the amendment has not been accepted. Dear gentlemen, I really think this should come in, and even you, Mr. Jovanovic, you said about your amendment. Secondly, here is not only Mr Jovanovic but also Mrs Pilja, and I think Mr Orlic and the other gentlemen, they resented that I, as someone who is not a lawyer, participates in a political institution in the debate on legal issues. Dear gentlemen, two additional things, the Assembly is a political institution, here each of us 250 has the right to discuss every item of the agenda and every issue, Mr Jovanovic. I think you as a lawyer should answer now and say - you're right, Mr Pavicevic. Another thing I wanted to say, I, as a dedicated MP, was that a safe man consulted the lawyers and the lawyers Mr. Selakovic, whom Mr. Vukic said were respected law professors, Vesna Rakić Vodalić. Look, based on consultation with the distinguished law teacher prepared all these amendments and I explain them, gentlemen. So, this is not just from the head of a politician but from the head of a politician who consulted prominent law professors, Mr. Jovanovic and Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27684	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27685	Thank you, Chairman. You know, no matter how politically I will never get along with Vesna Rakic Vodalić or her husband Vladimir Vodalić, I really respect them as top lawyers, but I am convinced that they would never write such amendments. I would really ask you not to degrade them in this way, with amendments like this. So I understand your need to bring this all down to some kind of policy, but, you know, here it takes a little bit of waist. It seems to me that you have consulted here at least. I understand, you'll always say what in principle -- my mouth praise me, we've broken ourselves alive to make one or another law. All of your amendments are mostly to change the order of words somewhere or to put a decimal or a point somewhere, rarely which amendment is really meaningful and has some essence. It's nice that you're doing all this, but you know there's one folk proverb - a vain pop and a goat crosses. So you just keep going like this. As much as you're answering, we're glad you put 5% of your votes on our list every time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27686	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27687	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief, given that the amendment promoter is obviously worse than wanting to hear my opinion, because he mentioned me a few times. Of course, this amendment should not be accepted either, but guess for the reasons why I suggested not to accept the amendment in accordance with Article 7. I would like to recommend to the honourable colleagues that the dedication they so often mention. In a way, we can define it together, focus however on taking out arguments instead of focusing on the persistent repetition of one and the same. I don't think that would contribute to the debate, but it wouldn't certainly blow her away as we have the case now. If it's not clear to the end what I mean, here's a proposal, for example. from reading aloud the first sentence of the Government's opinion in response to the amendment under Article 7 and we'll see if we understand each other for a start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27688	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27689	Thank you, Chairman. I think you should have followed the Rules of Procedure's right to respect first of all what followed after the speech of counterpart Pavicevic. Therefore, I must point out that first of all we here do not oppose attitudes with the distinguished professor and colleague Vodnelic, because she is not here, but that is why we can face attitudes with someone who has expressed those attitudes in the way he has brought them out, and he knows how he put them out. What we've been trying to put out here is based on how procedural law is based on the facts on which we base everything that is the subject and the essence of our amendments. That is why, honourable ministers, once again thanks to the entire SPS parliamentary group for not accepting Mr Pavicevic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27690	Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Marjan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27691	Mr. Chairman, I thought we'd hear the promoter first. But no problem. I propose to the Members of Parliament that they listen to the opinions of the Government and do not accept this amendment, regardless of what my fellow farmer is, I must say that if we accept this amendment and the word of the President of the Court are replaced by a first-degree judge, we should also accept the amendments to Article 10.9, and it seems to me to be 8. so that, by accepting this amendment and adopting this amendment, it would not be obtained by the quality of the Law, but rather, it would require a number of other changes. There were also words about commitment, I appreciate "dedication", under the quote, the amendment's promoter, but the quality of the amendment is not only about the quality of the proposal, but is about the debate and commitment to which the amendment's proposings, the two MPs, are called. So commitment isn't just about writing amendments and it's not just about explaining the amendments to commitment. So dedication is both presence and voting for its amendments. The quality of one's amendments and the validity of one's amendments is best told by the fact that the motioner attended the vote on his amendments and whether he himself was convinced enough about his work, whether he voted for his amendment or not. I am willing to accept any amendments which, mentioned two MPs, have proposed, but provided that it is determined whether they have voted at least 10% of their amendments so far and in this situation, I will invite all MPs to come and vote to accept these amendments. But I'm afraid that's not the case, and I think those who claim to be committed owe us an apology because they suggest amendments of that kind, such a quality that they don't even attend the vote for their amendments themselves. Chuck, there are amendments I voted for, and they're not. With that, I would like to be proved by the Amendment Proposer that they attended the vote on their amendments, at least in 10% of the cases, and I, not with one hand, will press this key, but with two hands. Otherwise, I'll also talk about this amendment, as some winemakers just winecut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27692	The word is submitted by amendment MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27693	The amendment proposes that Article 11(2) be amended and that it reads: “the first-degree judge determines the time limit within which the judge in the basic procedure is required to take the proceedings which have been carried out and which cannot be shorter than 15 days, nor longer than four months, and the time limit in which the judge reports him of the actions taken.” We wanted to bring this into line with the amendments proposed to Article 7 and to Article 5. It is explained that our amendment is not accepted, for the reasons set out for not accepting amendments by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Pavicevic to Article 5. The draft law and the reasons for not accepting amendments by MP Pavicevic to Article 7 of this Bill. So the argument is consistent with what the Government said about both Article 5 and Article 7 and Article 12, but that doesn't mean that something is good. We are convinced that the solution we have offered is better. If I followed the minister here well, I said that these are possible solutions, but that you have defined yourself as some other forum and other logic. So I totally understand why this amendment is being rejected, but that, of course, doesn't mean he's bad in any way. It's a very interesting logic for MPs to be good students, so they talk when they come to school, when they vote, how long they stay, are they...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27694	About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27695	I answer to what one of the previous speakers said, that concentration you devote to me when I speak, share a little with some other MPs. So, who hasn't finished a good elementary school, that whole life wants to be a good student, but you can't do that, you haven't gotten wisdom in years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27696	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. I've been counting on the time I've taken from you while you've been having sex with me. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27697	I agree that wisdom has not been achieved for years. In the presentation of my colleague's predecessor, I see that some only go years. What I'm saying is there's a saying, not everyone can insult you, not everyone's worth the attention you need to pay him. There's another saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27698	Mr. Risticevic, please make an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27699	By amendment, and I speak. There is another saying, and it speaks of the quality of the amendment and says: “There is no other way out of the wicked mouth but an evil word to come forth ”... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27700	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Do you want to proceed with the amendment? Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27701	I see that there are mild censorships, according to the amendment as much as the promoter himself has spoken, I am already this, for the second time speaking on the amendment of my fellow farmer. So, I was willing to accept this amendment on condition that it was proved to me that, for the amendments so far tabled by the two proposings of these amendments, the motionors themselves voted, at least 10% of the amendments submitted, that they had attended the vote on only 10% of the amendments they had submitted. I was willing to press the button with two hands, because that would talk enough about the quality of those amendments, but apparently someone has no arguments and they can't prove to me that they only voted for 10% of the amendments they submitted in this National Assembly. It speaks not only of dedication, but also of the quality of the amendments they have submitted. Therefore, if the promoter is not convinced that his amendment is of quality and does not vote for him, then how can we others be convinced only by talking to him that we are voting for him and that someone is sitting at home writing amendments and not voting for them? It is unacceptable to vote in such a situation for such a kind of amendment, if someone who has submitted them is not convinced of the quality of their submitted proposals, why would I, on their word, be convinced of it. One more thing, I didn't listen to the whole reason of the promoter, because democracy isn't about saying everything you want, it's about listening to whoever you want and not listening to who you don't want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27702	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Ivan Jovanovic jointly submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Vice-President of the National Assembly, and chairing today's session, Mr Arsic, the Honored Ministers and Honored Guest and Guests of the Ministry, I believe that the word that best describes and contains our amendment to Article 12 is consistency in the fight to amend the content of Article 7 of this Bill and since we are also in the principle debate here and we have spoken here, based and professionally and on the content of this Bill proposal. I think it is important, above all, because of the MPs, from the SNS who may not have read the bill, or our amendments, or the explanations, that I also think of Mr Djukanovic, to remind us of what our proposal contains in this article. In point 1, we want to say that the party is objecting to the court before which the proceedings are being conducted. In Section 2, we mean, the proceedings under appeal are conducted by the judge with the longest judicial standing in the court and we rule out, not counting the president of the court. Furthermore, the judge's term lasts for a year, according to which there is a competent judge who, after the first judge, has the longest judicial standing in court, not counting on the president of the court, also with a term of one year, continues to do so. During the term of office of the judge, the norm foreseen for the basic procedures it leads to is reduced by 30%, attitude 3, respected gentlemen, this is how our view should be, and the motioner rejects our amendment to Article 12, calling for an explanation for the refusal of amendments to Article 7. We propose a procedure under appeal is applied accordingly to the law governing the out-of-party procedure. The final position 4, gentlemen, should read - Judge from Article 2, paragraph 2, in the next text of the first-degree judge, is required to decide on the objection within two months of the date of receipt of the complaint. Everyone who hasn't read it has now had a chance to hear what our essential proposal is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27704	Right to the replica of MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27705	Thank you. You know, it never happened that I came to the Assembly if I hadn't read the law, and the proof that you didn't read the amendments exactly like this, because the one who read the law and really prepared these amendments honestly would never have written it, and it would have been a personal shame. So, I'm only sorry for one thing, which is that you discredit Professor Vesna Rakić Vednelic by saying that she helped you write these amendments. I think you've shamed your wife so much that it's a real shame that you even took her in your mouth and I believe she's going to be a member of your party very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27706	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27707	Of course we will persist in our fair struggle to improve this law. In Article 12(3), the words “the President of the Court” shall be replaced by the words “the First Judge”. The amendment was tabled in the explanation of this amendment in order to bring the amendment to Article 7 in line with the definition of the objective, and it is said in the refusal that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out for not accepting the amendments of MP Vladimir Pavicevic as Article 7. It's a bill of law. Mr Pavicevic said in a direct statement before this, what is our basic urgency in the amendments to this law, or amendments that should make it better, which is that complaints and the decision-making process are referred not to the President of the Court, who has some other tasks and some limitations in doing this job, but that the oldest judge of that year, who has the highest years and the highest standing, is in charge of deciding by appeal for a reasonable period of time. It is, of course, one possible solution, a solution that is not in any way contrary to any law, with any constitutional solution, is enforceable, sustainable, and is not accepted in principle. But that doesn't mean that we should give up on convincing others, of course, of course, the Serbian public, because of you, we have raised our hands, but Serbian citizens and citizens to understand what the point of this good solution is. Of course, we still have twenty amendments and, of course, we're going to discuss each other, unless the atmosphere in parliament is such that it devises further discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27708	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I continue to insist on whether the amendment's proposings voted at least 10% of the time for their proposals. If they did, I will vote in favour of this amendment and any previous proposals. There's no way the amendment promoter can convince me if he hasn't convinced himself that it's worth voting for his own amendment. Then how can we vote for something that the proposings themselves won't vote for? I mean, it looks a little comical to me, but when we take the meeting to cost, it looks tragically comical. It's the right of the opposition to propose amendments whatever they want. It's the right of the opposition to explain the amendments whatever they want, but I can't expect us to have amendments that they write any way they want and however they want to vote for them and that we vote for them, even if that happens, you can check it out. It happened that I voted for some of the amendments, two MPs, and they weren't there at all, and I don't want to do it anymore. I want to be convinced that they have voted so far, at least for one of their ten amendments, since they have submitted, I don't know, thousands and thousands of amendments, I want to see that statistics, show me that they are committed to their amendments and have attended the vote. So it's like that peasant saying that reads -- that that's the water that's whispering on the blank. So, it's such a saying, I apologize for using it. However, the second more appropriate sentence - to us peasants does not stand; given that it is irrelevant whether prosecutors will enlist the President of the Court to a senior prosecutor when the prosecutor harms the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, so I will defend the amendment a little better than I am a proposing because he is talking about something else entirely. The point is that the president of the court, when the prosecutor injures the trial within a reasonable time frame, writes and asks for appropriate measures. Since the amendment promoter did not talk about it, here I am saying that it is unacceptable for me to do so by the judge in the basic procedure, that I am still in favour of the solution that the President is doing so, so I have contributed to the proposal being a little more committed to its amendment and I would very much like to see the amendment promoters who submit a lot of these amendments in the future, to finally take the stand and to vote for their own amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27710	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27711	I thank the chairman. This amendment came from the principle debate we had on the bill we discussed when we gave, and we are now giving unreserved support to this law, with the fact that we feel that there are some improvements in terms of the interventions that we make to the amendments, and in that sense, the amendment to Article 13 in Article 4 is precisely the product of what we have highlighted in the principle debate. The argument put forward by the Government, i.e. by the rejection of this amendment, states that the party's right is protected by the fact that the possibility is provided, i.e. the right to appeal if the President of the Court of Justice does not decide. In the principle debate, we pointed out that the court's silence cannot be a cause of appeal because it is not contained in the provisions of the Law on Prosecution, it is not contained in other procedural laws. The appeal can be made, but it is declared to the court's decision. The court's decision must be in writing. Whether that is a verdict or a solution, in any case, it is one procedural and legal document that must fulfil all of those prescribed elements by law in order to be a valid procedural and legal act. What has been introduced here has been introduced that the appeal can be made in the event of the court's silence. For the silence of the court, or failure to decide, there are other legal mechanisms that we are fighting against the silence of the court, namely inactivity or ineffectiveness, not to use a more difficult qualification which is in any case not under legal terminology. We are pleased in the SPS parliamentary group that because of such failures, i.e. silence or non-determination, they have launched disciplinary proceedings by the VSS against a number of judges who have not done their job in the way they are legally obliged to do so. We have proposed this in the amendment to avoid anything that implies the possibility of making a complaint in a way that is not procedurally-legally defined in other procedural laws, so that in that case the party can declare a new complaint, so I would ask that our proposal for this amendment be reconsidered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27712	On behalf of section 3 above Article 14 of the amendment, MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic together submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27713	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry of Justice, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 14 of this Bill proposal and I am very sorry that here I am convinced during this debate today that there are MPs, such as Mr Djukanovic, who have not read this bill and who have not even read the amendments submitted to this bill, nor the explanations written by Minister Selakovic or anyone on his team. That's why I think it's very important that we have this kind of debate often so that those non-readable MPs can find out what they're going to vote on in Voting Day. Here, I would like to inform Mr Arsic and the MPs who have not read, including Mr Djukanovic, that by voting in the day for the proposed Law on Protection of the Court within a reasonable period, they will also vote for this bill for one of our amendments, which Minister Selakovic adopted, which is an amendment to Article 24. Dear gentlemen, that means it was worth the debate. One adopted amendment is worth discussing, gentlemen, I think, with a reminder that the Minister of Justice and we on this side, I think, agreed in the principle debate that such a bill is necessary, that it is in line with what the National Strategy for Justice Reform is for the period from 2013 to 2018 and that it is important that we MPs take part in the fight against the unjustly long duration of the court procedure as one of the types of violations of the right to a fair trial, respected gentlemen and to know that there is agreement here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27714	On what grounds do you want a replica, Mr. Djukanovic? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: He mentioned me. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27715	By trying to get me to do more talking about you and your weakness, and proof that you're completely unprepared here is exactly the fact that you haven't said a single word out of this highly minded amendment that you've submitted here. It's the best proof that you haven't even read this law, but that you're not even interested in it. In fact, you're interested for another reason, which is that you're trying to make a tirad and circus here. But well, I think the citizens of Serbia see it very well. Just keep going like this. Whenever you pick up, we'll have a five percent rating jump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27716	The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27717	Thank you. The President-in-Office, I am reporting under the amendment tabled by my colleague to Article 14, on the grounds that this amendment has been submitted to bring the amendment to Article 7(2) in line with the defined objective. From everything his colleague said today, he obviously doesn't understand what his goal is. In the voting day, they will not vote for this amendment for the reasons of Article 51(1). The law governing courts prescribed that the President of the Court is a court, the judiciary is in charge and is responsible for the rules and timely work of the court, so the solution is referred to in Article 7. Proposal for a law in accordance with these powers of the President of the Court. At the same time, the position of the 2nd same member of the bill gives the president the opportunity to appoint one or more judges who can also conduct the proceedings and to decide on the objections, and to speed up the proceedings, on an annual basis. Since the decision to adopt the objection indicates to the judge the reasons for which the party's right to trial has been violated within a reasonable period of time and imposes actions that effectively speed up the proceedings taken by the judge. Such a decision does not increase the rights of the President of the Court, nor does it affect the judge in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27718	Thank you. Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27719	We propose that Article 14(2) be amended and read as follows: "The appeal may be lodged if the appeal is adopted, but the directly senior public prosecutor did not provide a mandatory instruction within eight days until the date of receipt of the first-degree judge’s decision, if the first-degree judge or the direct senior prosecutor did not order the judge or the public prosecutor of the proceedings that effectively speed up the proceedings, or if the judge or the public prosecutor did not take the proceedings ordered within the time limit set for him". Of course, this amendment is also directed towards it and it has been submitted to bring the text of the amendment to Article 7 in line with the defined objective, and that word is then, in my opinion, too high, but that's where we got the minister's argument that the linguists said it should be so, which I can agree with, but I don't have to. It is entirely irrelevant whether some fellow MPs read the laws, for reading is just one part of the process of knowledge. You need to understand what's being read. If there is some concern about an increase of 5% when we speak, it may refer to body weight, it may refer to another feature, but it is difficult to refer to any party's rating level, even if it is the ruling party. You hear very well, obviously, what I'm saying, so there's no need to repeat it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27720	The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27721	Thank you. Well, good. Now, I believe you made Mr. Pavicevic laugh at this joke as the only member of your party, but I must admit I'm glad you're answering like this. You show how weak you are, and you don't actually have any weight besides insulting someone. I believe that you two, you're very active on Twitter, you have one 50 profiles from which you insult people in different ways, but that's your problem and your kind of political communication and the kind of political struggle. I think the citizens of Serbia see it very well, and I'm rooting for you more often, I'm really rooting for it, because it's a gentle government with an opposition like you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27722	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27723	The previous speaker didn't speak at all about the amendment, and I don't know how he recognized himself in what I was saying. That's probably his problem. Someone was probably throwing me away, someone who heard very well. But I think it's a bad habit. We are working really hard, and Mr. Pavicevic and I, however few we are at this point, even though we were the only members of that party, but it's very strange that one big party, which by its own size, has surpassed all of the former, at least in the opinion of its officials, why are you afraid of a small party that has two members? That's a very interesting thing. I think your fear is justified. It's the only good conclusion you've made today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27724	The word has been given by MP Zoran Babic, who is entitled to replication as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27725	I know someone would like people in Serbia to be afraid. I know someone would like to take over a role they don't have a right to. I know someone would love to take God's role, but it's already for some other people and some other specialities. If I fear anyone, I fear only the Lord God and no one else, and as far as this earth is concerned, I fear instability. The instability they called for during the election campaign you and those who said – if you don't vote for us, you know there will be a Ukrainian scenario, as if they have little breaking and wars and destruction and cities and our country. The instability they have brought into this Parliament by such irresponsible statements. The statements just said it was a good time from March 2003. These are statements from which every normal, decent man in Serbia, at the very least, is bereaved and disgusted. Otherwise, fear of a political party, of two, 202 or so many members, no one should have fear in Serbia or the SNS, nor does the SNS have fear of anyone. I guess we're the only country in which we should fear the Lord God and no one else, and whoever wants to take that part, that's for some other specialties.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27726	Thank you. (Zoran Babic, from the place: I did not wear a coat.) ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27727	You know how, when you attack someone, only a decent man can be recognized, because from one like you, the praise is to receive an attack. As for this fear, no – we want to encourage you to respond as much as possible, because you are the best possible opposition, we want to cultivate you, don't you understand? I'm glad you've taken the full role of the Democratic Party that isn't here. I guess they're ashamed of you, too, but whatever, dear colleague, I'll always cheer to give you a word, so you can talk as much as possible, because Serbian citizens know it well and can judge it in the election. You're where you are. We will cultivate you and honor you, and we, thank God, will surely be in power with this opposition for another two terms, brother to brother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27728	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27729	Of course, citizens of Serbia will decide who will be in power for how long, as they decided a year ago, and that is their legitimate right. As they vote, so it will be and there will be no doubt. It's as clear as day. I really rarely give myself that freedom to waste time communicating with people who really have nothing to say. Today is a special day for me to give myself a bit of a break, and in that sense, so that the insults that are brought out on a daily basis, wherever they may be, are part of a system that you obviously, as a party, have designed to be in power as long as possible. It's also legitimate of the SNS, but it's not the essence of the existence of power in one state. The essence of the existence of power in one country is to make it better for citizens, not to harass the opposition or the Ombudsman or anyone else who can think, who has long since realized that the Berlin Wall has fallen, who doesn't mind that political correctness survives beyond socialism, who isn't afraid to report it to the competent authority when he loses his ID, and not to let it happen to him to start money laundering companies on his behalf. So these are all things that are perfectly normal in one normal country. That's how it's supposed to be. I heard someone say he didn't wear a coat. It's nice that he said that, because otherwise it looks like he did.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27730	On what basis, Mr. Djukanovic? (Vladimir Djukanovic: Replica. He didn't mention you in a bad context, not in any part. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27731	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I was really scared, not because of myself, but because of others. I know how my fellow farmer was doing. His party colleague here advocated the right to a fair trial. Does that right, Minister of Justice, also include a two-month detention without the right to an attorney and for 12,000 people? I'm not afraid for myself, I'm afraid for others. There is no greater punishment for Serbia than for my fellow farmer, in a bid, to regain the positions he has taken. Serbia is a really big country, considering what kind of prime minister it has suffered. I'm talking first of all about what I've already asked the minister about. Is the right to a fair trial normal and guaranteed, if someone puts you in custody, 12,000 people, without the right to a two-month lawyer? I don't think there were any more assumptions about a fair trial. It is hypocritical, it is a hypocrisis to speak of the right to a fair trial and trial within a reasonable period of time and to submit amendments, and when you exercise power to bring 12,000 people into custody. Is it the right to a fair trial to seek the political background of the prime minister's murder only by the opposition, without seeing a policy of the background that your vice-president of the government was happy to see a guest in Schiller's house in person who was suspected and convicted of killing the prime minister? What is the right to a fair trial? What's a hypocrite? What's a hypocrisis? Let the MPs and the citizens we represent decide. I'm not afraid. If I was afraid of sparrows, there's a saying, a grain wouldn't sow, and a sling in his pocket. It doesn't occur to me that I'm afraid of someone, no matter how big they think they are. I wasn't afraid at the time, when he took the most important position, to cancel the vote of that kind of government that was entitled to a fair trial by throwing 12,000 citizens of her own state into custody without the right to a lawyer. Here in the amendment, only the words "President of the Court" are changed with two words "first-rate judge". I suggest that this amendment not be accepted. My fellow farmer can do whatever he wants. We were able to do a smarter job while they proposed amendments they wouldn't vote for, we could spray some vineyards. I'm not gonna blow it. I'm gonna blow it. We could've sanded some chickens around Nis, in Gage's Han. We could have attended the second day of glory in the village where my previous colleague must not even enter. Some people know that. We could have done a much smarter job while discussing amendments that even the motionor would not vote for. I'm not afraid. He can think of me, but he can't scare me. He can think of me and say what he wants. He's the Ombudsman he mentions. There is an old people's saying. A cat's pain is what mice think of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27732	The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27733	It's a shame that, like sometimes some thugs who say so, and then run away, we don't have the one who explained the amendment, but whether there's going to be a "president of the court" or a "first judge" is completely irrelevant to the one who talks about insults. Sam used terms here -- scum, garbage, etc., and we see that he likes to transfer it to others. But it is very important, Mr. Arsic, regarding this amendment, it is completely irrelevant whether the president of the court or the first-degree judge, especially those who say that the political party, which is in power, can survive by insulting the opposition. I will, of course, point out 100 times, not that we don't want to insult anyone, on the contrary, we're going to be raising this opposition for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27734	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27735	In the context of Article 15, in pages 1, 2 and 3, we suggest that instead of saying "eight", we replace it with "fifteen". In view of the fact that this law calls for the law on non-party proceedings, as an additional law on the rules governing the conduct of objections and complaints in this law, and as a 15-day rule of law provides for an appeal, it is fair and procedurally logical to set the same deadline in this law for the declaration of appeal, i.e. leave enough time for a legally ignorant party to find a lawyer or legal aid. However, the party, if it considers, may also reduce that deadline, so it is not unnecessary to stall. The bottom line is that some ignorant party has plenty of time to cope with the legal protocol I'm guessing, for the first time in its history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27736	The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Ivan Jovic. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 15th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr Arsic, Honored Minister Selakovic and Honored Guests of the Ministry of Justice. The amendment to Article 15, submitted jointly by Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I, is one of the 35 amendments submitted, but unfortunately not that amendment adopted. Here I would like the time I have to focus on one note, primarily Minister Selakovic, which again concerns the reasons why an amendment has not been accepted here. Once again, the term – Celebrity is used as an argument for not accepting the amendment. Dear gentlemen, all right, I understand, it may have been a short time to explain, etc., but if for no other reason than this parliamentary history, someone will investigate what is being explored today. Here was the discussion of the project and the construction of "Belgrade on Water" here, I sat upstairs in the library, reading stenographic notes, which could not be found by respected gentlemen. And I'm sorry that what's left in the notes didn't contain any precise provisions about any proposal or discussion of contracts and some researcher who comes in in a year, 10 years or 100 years, when he's researching how they're explained for not accepting the amendments, and when he sees that one MP, absolutely accurate, explained why it is necessary to change Article 15, paragraph 3, then I think it's not right for him to stand in the rationale of rejection – so here's what we all consider celibately. Well, the assumption is that someone thinks it's celery, but it's very important to explain carefully, specifically, why someone thinks it's more cellulent than the other. Then we create conditions, Mr. Arsic, that our debate, in our next assembly, is very, very high quality, which should be the goal of all of us, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27738	Mr. Pavicevic, you call me for nothing, while I chair, I cannot answer you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27739	I would like to suggest that the above-mentioned amendment be not accepted, therefore, to Article 15 of this Law, for the same reasons that the Government has provided in its reasoning, in its own opinion. What's particularly problematic is the invitation of the motionors of this amendment, a day-long call, as the government has accepted one of their amendments, of 35 or 36, and you mention it all day long here, as the government has accepted one of their amendments. Here I congratulate him on that one amendment, but I have to remind him of the folk proverb, or the saying that one owner does not make spring. So that one amendment that was accepted doesn't mean that you wrote good amendments. On the other hand, two members of one strike also do not form a party, and does not mean that it is a party. The party to exist has to have a program, organization, ideology, an idea. I didn't, unfortunately, notice what they call a party. Thank you and I urge you to refuse this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27740	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27741	Thank you, Chairman. With this amendment, we intervened only to match the text of the law with procedural laws such as the Law on Prosecution, Criminal Procedure and Other Procedural Laws. Why? Because both settled case law and what it has issued as an obligation, i.e. an imperial norm, is that the appeal is brought directly to a higher court instance. The draft law states that the appeal is submitted to the President of the Court who decided on the objection. This would, from the point of view of the case law case law, stress that the appeal was decided by the first-degree body, i.e. the President of the court who decided on the complaint. We intervened with the amendment asking for the recast of this provision so that the appeal was brought directly to the High Court, and through the President of the Court of Justice who decided on the objection, which, in the rest of the verdict, states that the President of the High Court decides on the appeal. If the infringement of the right to trial is brought before the VCC within a reasonable period of time, the appeal shall be brought before the VCC and the appeal shall be decided by more than three VCC judges. The President of the High Court may appoint one or more judges next to him to decide on complaints on an annual schedule of cases. So, intervention is very small, respected ministers and it refers to just something that has been fully applied in the caselaw of procedural law, which is nowhere else in the practice of procedural law is regulated and there is really no reason why this amendment is not accepted, given what I have already pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27742	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27743	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Arsic, Minister Selakovic, and respected guests of the Justice Ministry, finally one MP for our amendment debate, Mr Markovic congratulated the opposition on the adoption of one amendment, though with one message, that one property does not make spring. But, gentlemen, there is another saying, one but worthy. Imagine in football when you score goals and there's no other goals. It's a great victory, gentlemen, and for me, any accepted amendment in which writing I participate is a great victory. Not only mine but also our legislative body and citizens of the Republic of Serbia because the laws apply to everyone. They're generally respected gentlemen and I think you should know that here. I am also sorry that Mr Markovic had little more praise and congratulations for the work of the NS, because NS is one modern political party, a European party that follows all the important elements of modern policy understanding. Here's to saying, since I already have a chance, what does modern policy understand mean? Contemporary policy, gentlemen, involves organising, managing and designing people's lives together on a particular territory, with the consent of the people who live there. All three elements of the NS respect, especially the element concerning the design of life together. This design involves continuous work on the preparation of amendments respected gentlemen, continuous work on the preparation of proposals for changes to individual policies in certain areas. So we also have a proposal for economic transformation and transformation of the education system in Serbia and reform of the judiciary, respected gentlemen. I also think it should be appreciated here. Thank you, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27744	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27745	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since we have been patient on the amendment to Article 16 of the same motions, and I have been patient in the meantime, so I have waited for a few amendments to see if there may be a positive response to my call for the motion to read the first sentence of the Government's response aloud in the opinion of the amendments of the same promoters to Article 7. However, it seemed to me that the promoter had some problem with the idea. I guess that's why. Because that sentence shows all the lack of basis for the idea it represents all day long. This, meanwhile, with one relationship that, for every commendation, was the attitude of selfless co-ordination, instead of proposing the amendment, made by counterpart Vlahovic. Well, since we did hear it in the meantime, although there may have been no courage from whoever was supposed to do it personally, I would like to invite us to comment on the amendments a little later on to comment on what we heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27746	Thank you. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic submitted together to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Arsic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, I see a laugh here, and so do I. Dear guests from the Ministry of Justice, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 17 of this bill and I have noticed that Mr Orlic, Mr Arsic, is one of the few SNS MPs who reads the bill's proposals, and that seems to me entirely. He's following closely, and it's okay for me to discuss the way Mr. Orlic suggests here on our amendments. On the occasion of the amendment to article 17. I have two things to say. First of all, there are a lot of questions, Mr. Arsic, to pass on to Mr. Orlic. I am trying to answer all the questions asked by the MPs of the SNS, and Mr Orlic, and Mrs Vlahovic, and Mr Markovic, and Mr Martinovic, and Mr Babic, and you, too, Mr Arsic. You see how many questions this is about our amendments. And, if it happens, gentlemen, that I sometimes forget to answer some of the questions about one, I ask you to do the same thing as Mr. Orlic, to warn me and to remind me that I have not answered one of the questions asked. I will, of course, during our debate here today to answer those questions. Another thing, Mr. Arsic, let me tell you. You tell me that I mention you in vain, because as you chair a session of the National Assembly, you have no right, or possibility, you said you were involved in the debate. Well, you have a chance, Mr. Arsic. Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, here, let me remind all the Members of the People, and also you, provide for both you and when you chair the session to participate in the amendment debate. The 100th reads - National Assembly President, in this case the chairman, Mr Arsic, when the National Assembly is chaired, if he wants to participate in the search, leaves the presidency to one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. Take this opportunity, Mr. Arsic, to discuss here in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27748	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I'll take everything from word to word to Mr. Orlic. I'll tell him everything you said in your presentation. It's better if I don't go downstairs. You saw what happened a few hours ago. So as soon as I started acting as an MP from the parliamentary bench, the president of the National Assembly of Maja Gojkovic had to come and interrupt the session to protect you. So I'd better stay and chair. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27749	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I propose that this amendment, amendment to Article 17, should not be accepted either, where it is intended to be said: "the President of the directly superior court" is replaced by the words "the second-degreed judge". I am joining the Government of the Republic of Serbia in my opinion that suggests we reject this amendment, but I would only like in one sentence to resolve the doubt about the party's functioning as a respected previous speaker. So we're not against having your party act. I'm joining what Mr. Djukanovic just said. So we're happy when you act as a party, because your political activity raises our ratings and percentages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27750	The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27751	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, dear ministers, honored guests, here's another reason why this amendment should not be accepted. So, the proposer himself, except he won't come to the vote, I'm convinced, as so far in 99% of the cases, I believe he doesn't even have to explain his amendment now, and we should accept that. As in the other amendments, it is also required to say, "The President of the Court" that are changed in words: "The First Judge". Since it's about my fellow farmer trying, I have to defend his amendment, but I don't think it should be accepted, that he brought it to the agricultural workers' break and that he doesn't have time to consider that the President of the Court is more qualified to do so than a first-degree judge. I'm willing to explain his amendment, what he really wanted, and why I, as another farmer, think that he did it eventually in some extortion between two stages of agricultural work, so I don't need to accept that amendment because I think the solution proposed by the government is a little better. If we were to adopt this amendment, I must warn that my colleague was a little careless, then we would have to change Articles 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17. I don't think it's instructions that because of one amendment, we're changing all these other ones, because if we say "President of the Court" here, the words "priority judge", then all those competencies that were provided for the President of the Court would be very strange because they would be intertwined and, in the end, it would be that what the President of the Court decided had to be decided by the first-degree judge. Those are the reasons why I didn't think it should be accepted. Now I got a message from the village of Chagrovac, that's Gadjin Han, and that's where I got the same message from his fellow citizens who wanted to see him and explain the amendment to them – the right to trial within a reasonable time, the President of the Court, the first-degree judge. They are very eager, they have not seen him for many years, and they have also spoken to me from the citizens of the village of Pukovac and said – what you are beating up empty straw, tell your fellow farmer that the chickens are again demanding some clapping, require a new white coat, so I think he may have set out to do this useful job and therefore I congratulate him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27752	Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the most active MP in this assembly meeting, the Honorable Mr. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27753	Dear Mr. Arsic, thank you for your precise and precise announcement, I think, and appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, the esteemed guest, Mrs Kuburovic, and the honored guests of the Ministry of Justice, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 18 of this bill and to inform the MPs who are in contact with the citizens, that the telephone here in the Assembly has been heated in our office. Co-worker Ivana answers every call. The citizens and the citizens say, "Keep up the work of the People's MPs of the New Party." Keep up the good work. Prepare the amendments, analyze, interpret the laws, try to make the proposals for the laws that come to the Serbian Parliament more contentually better. We, Mr. Arsic, see that now you recognize this is exactly what we're doing here. I only have to apply this amendment to Article 18. The bill to say something to Mr Markovic who said he had nothing against the New Party, so of course there is nothing, he was here congratulating on the adopted amendment, but it is not this amendment to Article 18, it will be an amendment to Article 24, but I must say for the sake of mathematics, Mr Markovic. We can't all grow 5% here. We agreed here yesterday to accept something that's statistics. Statistics say that over the year, 5% of the proposed New Party amendments have been adopted by respected gentlemen. I have concluded that if we have 5% each year, it will be 20% in three years if we turn that into a voter's will for the New Party. Twenty per cent support for the New Party in the election. It can't mean any more percentages for the Serbian Progressive Party, because we're opponents, gentlemen. This necessarily means the fall of the Serbian Progressive Party, per cent, five per cent per cent, Mr. Markovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27754	You don't do well with that bill from your colleague Pavicevic, believe me. You have to learn that percentages are not collected year by year, but the total number of percentages of amendments adopted for this whole statistical period counts, and I think you'd be very happy if you reached that 5% at the vote. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27755	Thank you. I actually wanted to thank you publicly, Mr. Chairman, for the message you delivered to me. I have to admit, I didn't understand until the end whether it was possible to, with a two-minute explanation of why someone forgot something, we didn't get an answer to the question whether I was going to hear the answer to my question or not. Therefore, I would still suggest that you convey my greetings to my esteemed colleague and tell him if he does not have the courage to answer my question, I will be forced to ask my colleague Vlahovic to come to his aid again. Until I hear that, the amendment to refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27756	We'll pass it on to Mr. Pavicevic. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Your Honor, Mr. Arsic, I have little regret that I did not have an announcement as to the previous amendment or perhaps even a little more appropriate and more precise and better Mr. Arsic. Dear Minister Selakovic, a respected guest from the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Kuburovic and respected guests from the ministry, I would like to say two things about the amendment to this member of the bill. First, I must tell Mr. Orlic, who complained earlier here that he was long waiting for an answer to the question to recommend that I convey this question to Mrs. Vlahovic, the MP in the National Assembly, that she should ask the question, because I would certainly prefer to answer the question to Mrs. Vlahovic's MP. I see that Mrs. Vlahovic accepts this as a kind of compliment, a special attention to one of our colleagues here, gentlemen. Another thing I have to tell you here, Mr. Arsic, and the right to tell you, to challenge you for a little debate, to take advantage of that possibility and the right to Article 100. Rules of Procedure, so we can debate these amendments as well. I'm glad that you from the chairman's post here have accepted that the New Party is already 5% in support of the electoral body, Mr Arsic, and I hope that my new party's bill, in the next parliamentary elections, leads to up to 20%, will be correct, Mr Arsic. I am sorry that Mr Selakovic has decided that by accepting only one amendment, we will create one obstacle to this success, but I hope that in further discussions, gentlemen, from next Tuesday, for when a new session of the National Assembly is scheduled, and at that session and the Law on textbooks, which I have prepared and how I have prepared here, that the number of these amendments will be increased, including that percentage of support in the elections, respected Mr Arsic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27758	I thank my colleague Pavicevic. Our people say hope is the last to die. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27759	Mr. Chairman, you're wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Minister, dear guests, Mr. President, the chairman is wrong. There's a saying of hope dying last, not true. Still, the last person to die is her owner. It's just that there's this other saying. Of course, I am in favour of not accepting this amendment since I have already made an argument about it, when the amendment's proposings consider the quality of their amendments to be very suspicious, when they are not willing to vote for their own proposals. When they didn't do it at 10% of the vote for their own amendments, and how can we vote for amendments and believe what they don't believe in themselves? These are arguments that I have already used several times about these amendments because in all these amendments there are some cosmetic changes, the type of change of one word or so on, which essentially means nothing. What keeps the phones ringing and what my colleagues have now warned me about, the heat of someone's phones. That citizens, not only from those two villages, Pupovac and Cabrovac, are now warning me from all the villages, since all those who pay taxes and all those who fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia have asked us all, especially you, Mr. Minister and Mr. Chairman, to take good care of these hot phones. On these hot phones and their warm love for this congregation, they do not rekindle this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27760	The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27761	Thank you, Your Honor, I would only like for my colleague Pavicevic, please, if you can pass on to him, given that his colleague Orlic told him, my help is not in question but in answer. So I'm going to read the argument given by the government for all the non-acceptations of your amendments. So, just the first sentence, as my colleague Orlic said - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 51 is Article 1. The law governing courts prescribed that the President of the Court represents a court, manages the judiciary and is responsible for the proper and timely work of the court. By way of derogation from Article 7. The bill of law and according to the court president's powers, so I hope counterpart Pavicevic understands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27762	Thank you. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic submitted the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic submitted the title of Section over Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27763	Thank you, Chairman. Since this is the last amendment I'm reporting for, I just want to say briefly and really very briefly to point out that our amendment has gone in the direction of comparison with the provision of Article 193. The law on litigation, and Minister Selakovic, and how well he knows what we did with the amendments and additions to the Law on Prosecution, when we had to do this law, I apologize to that Article 193 to amend it in the sense that an imperial norm which supports the party's obligation to appeal must be addressed to the Attorney General, is now an optional right, which means that the party can address the prosecution without its obligation. In the amendment, we have in this direction set out the wording of Article 24, that the party may, before the proceedings for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period, submit a proposal to the Advocate General for the conclusion of the settlement agreement within six months of the date on which it has acquired the right to fair satisfaction. In the proposal for the conclusion of the settlement agreement, the parties will indicate which type of fair satisfaction referred to in Article 23(1) of this Act is required. If within 60 days of the date of submission of the party’s proposal referred to in Article 1, the Advocate General shall not respond to the party’s proposal, the proposal will be deemed not to have been accepted. The settlement agreement reached between the party and the Advocate General shall have the power of the Executive document. Finally, the agreement on the settlement of parties and defences can arrange the amount of fair cash compensation for infringement of the right, only within the limits of the cash compensation prescribed by Article 30 of this Act. So, this is one norm that would be fully characterized by the Law on Prosecution, which in a completely identical way regulates the right of the party to exercise its legal interest outside the court proceedings. Even more, the reason for the adoption of this amendment is contained in perhaps one of the excess provisions of the proposed Article 24, where it is said that the party is free to give up any time in writing from the attempt of alignment. Why is it too high? Because, in any case, the party may give up its attempt to settle, because it is free to enter into the procedure for the arrangement, or attempt to achieve a settlement, and in no case implies its obligation. Therefore, I think that this amendment of ours has really exceeded and that in this text it can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27764	Thank you. National MPs submitted the same text to Article 24 of the amendment: together Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Ivan Jovanovic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is submitted by the amendment, the honourable MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27765	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Selakovic, respected guest from the Ministry of Justice Mrs Kuburović and honored guests from the Ministry of Justice and, of course, respected Vice-President of the National Assembly and chairing today's session, Mr Arsic, at the beginning to tell you - thank you for this announcement and it is appropriate, I think, the situation in which we have all heard that the amendment to the draft law on Article 24, which we have submitted to the MP Zoran Zivkovic and myself. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last time I'm speaking today in our amendment debate and I've decided to speak, so I don't think it's a round of applause for the end of the speech, gentlemen, gentlemen, I guess we're expected to discuss it further and further here, and all with the hope that Minister Selakovic and his associate and his associates are convinced to adopt a number of amendments because the idea that the content proposals of the law are better. But I decided to make this my last speech during today's debate, among other things, because we came to an amendment that was adopted. For one MP, gentlemen, at least as far as my approach to the work of this National Assembly is concerned, there is no better situation than the one in which it is known that one person has influenced it and managed to ensure that one bill is changed for the better, and thanks to the action of that particular person, gentlemen. Since our Assembly is a legislative body, that we are adopting laws here, that our orientation must be to the general good, and that the general good implies that we adopt the best laws possible, I must now here, for this last announcement, to declare one satisfaction that we have made a good bill, at least a little bit, to make better, respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27766	Thank you. National MPs Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Marjanovic submitted together to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27767	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, once again allow me to draw attention and to be a little impressed by your ability to be funny at these moments that are a little difficult in our country. I advise you to stay at that altitude, because usually when you go down, your political past works in the bench, and you know how to speak in radical style, which was the case today. When it comes to amendment to Article 25, we, the Honorable Ministers, started the discussion today, this morning, right, on the subject of amendments and additions, i.e. the law and our proposals to amend this law through amendments. In this amendment, we have proposed that, in addition to the law of the envisaged possibility in one case as an alternative, and in the other case as a cumulative measure, the possibility that a citizen who had a trial within an unreasonable time period, to say the case, would receive a monetary satisfaction, in addition to that, would receive a moral satisfaction by the fact that the trial was not within a reasonable period of time, it would be publicly announced, and it is not disputed. So, those two possibilities. For us it is disputed and this amendment we have suggested that this moral satisfaction carries in itself a clear description of what is happening to him, to say, during that period when there was no trial and we have suggested that in this public document which will be published, the nearer descriptions of the infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period and the marking of the length of the proceedings in which the party is violated the right. I'll use the time of the head of the parliamentary group, if I exceed this time of two minutes. So, we are not satisfied with the fact that it will be publicly announced that, I will not tell Petar Petrovic since he often answers the line when I mention his name, Mark Mark Markovic, let's say, that the right to trial has been violated within a reasonable period of time, but that this trial has lasted, for example, three years and that it is marked exactly what right is injured, what he is in some way in that period, which is why he suffered, to say, because of an unreasonable trial. So, we only asked that this explanation for why the trial was unreasonablely detailed, so that those who read it knew why Marko Markovic had been slow for three years, was not finished and which may have given him some material satisfaction, but he also wants a moral satisfaction, but a full moral satisfaction. Here she is, according to us, insufficiently defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27768	Thank you. Together, MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic submitted to Section 5 above the 26th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 27th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Milan Petrovic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27769	In the context of the amendments that we have submitted to Article 30 at the end of the sentence, the text should be added – in the event of a breach of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time done in non-partisan proceedings, proceedings which do not have a determined value of the dispute, as well as in criminal proceedings in which it is threatened as a maximum fine of up to 500,000 dinars and a prison sentence of up to five years. Then, in the same article in paragraph 2, we propose to change and to – cash compensation is recognised at a level of 700 euros to 7,000 euros in dinar equivalent on the day of payment to the middle rate of NBS in the case of infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time in criminal proceedings in which it is threatened as a maximum fine of 500,000 dinars and a prison sentence of more than five years. They would add a new attitude 3. — cash compensation in case of infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time made in litigation proceedings in which the value of the dispute is determined is at a percentage of 10% of the determined value of the dispute. We believe that the level of compensation should be more widely regulated and that the flat-rate maximum amount of up to 3,000 euros is relatively low. The compensation scales should be based and determined at the height of the types of proceedings in which the right to trial is violated within a reasonable period of time. It cannot be the same amount of compensation for damage to the right to trial within a reasonable period of time for example. the extraparnition procedure of the border arrangements and the multimillion-dollar damages or criminal proceedings in which the sentence of over 10 years has been threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27770	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together submitted the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27771	Dear Mr. Arsic, may I ask how long there's been left since the time of the head of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27772	There are nine and a half left as head of the parliamentary group and two minutes per amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27773	That's enough. Thank you, Mr. Arsic. So, in the amendment to Article 30, our parliamentary group has proposed that a minimum satisfaction for a trial that is not within a reasonable period not be below 1,000 euros. We explained this by the fact that it is an adequate sanction on the one hand for the judiciary, or for the state, for not allowing its citizens to get a final verdict in their own or against, the benefit of the other, that it is sufficient sanctions, but that it is sufficient satisfaction for a citizen to be 1,000 euros. We can even explain it financially. So, if the minimum satisfaction is 300 euros in dinar equivalent, a maximum of 3,000 euros, I fear that knowing the practice of our courts, this minimum satisfaction will be the rule and that citizens will get a 300-euro satisfaction, and it is possible that the process itself, the costs of the lawyer, will be at the level of that satisfaction. In this regard, we believe that the ministry had to take care of the costs of lawyers who are not small for ordinary citizens of Serbia and that it is difficult to assess and that, I would say, it is inconclusive, that the trial is past a reasonable deadline, to say, that the trial costs 300 euros beyond a reasonable deadline. In that sense, we suggest that you accept this amendment of ours, of course, given all that, Mr. Minister, which we talked about this morning, that this law deals with cosmetics, so that it would be suitable for a regulated legal system, as you said it was a legal system of Germany, Austria, and that in this case, it would also show the provision of this article, it would actually be just one makeup of something called a bad judiciary. I didn't have the opportunity to explain the previous amendment this morning, and it may also apply to this amendment, when you spoke about the number of cases standing in the drawers of your courts and our courts, I wasn't able to tell you that the largest number of those decisions, or the cases standing in those drawers, were created thanks to the judges who were not re-elected in the period which you mark as a bad period of our judiciary and that they were not re-elected, precisely because they held some of the items that were outdated in their drawers. You remember well the cases that have passed without a conviction precisely because they are obsolete and therefore do not judge Minister Selakovic for a small amount, so to speak, the spiritual suffering of citizens who are awaiting trial because a state body has compromised their rights, because they are conducting a work dispute or perhaps some other dispute that will lead to pensioners because their pensions have been taken away and do not bring it down to 300 euros. Imagine a pensioner who will start a dispute because you took away his pension, or you reduced his pension and because he cannot survive with his pension today, which was a bankruptcy right, past the Constitution was a reduction, and with that verdict he may welcome in some three or four years, he gets a moral satisfaction of 300 euros. Imagine disabled or pregnant or single mothers in NIS who these days, about 160 of them, lost their jobs because the employer applied the new Labour Act, of course not respecting, I must say, an interstate agreement between the two countries, which guaranteed the right to work for those persons and imagine if a single mother after three or four years gets a verdict worth 3,000 euros. I don't think that's responsible and that you could do away with the damage this government has done to those people who are going to be in the dispute. Imagine the dispute of citizens who took loans in Swiss francs, in euros, bought their own apartment, which is now longer, more due than when they started to repay the loan. They started repaying a 30,000-euro loan, now owes 60,000 euros. When it's over... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Who brought these banks? Mr. Arsic, please calm Mr. Babic. So, when the process is over and the banks are found guilty and the banks are identified as being used, being overused, imagine a moral satisfaction of 300 euros and a number of other irregularities that have been caused among other things. Yesterday I was listening to a case about legalizing illegal objects. The man has completed the legalisation procedure since 2004. He's done the whole thing. He was supposed to get a useful permit. Meanwhile, some new laws were passed, and on the counter they said, “Now you have to start a whole new procedure. ” Well, she says: “I completed a procedure that was much more complex and the price was much higher for legalization. Why do I have to file a new request now? “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” He says: “You have to endure because the Law on Legalization does not say that those who have completed the procedure do not have to initiate a new procedure. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Please, Mr Selakovic, note this, it is indeed an injustice for the citizens who have fulfilled their civic obligation. Imagine that citizen who paid six thousand euros for legalisation in 2004, who one day proved his right and who received a 300-euro moral satisfaction. That's why I suggest, Mr. Selakovic, that you accept these suggestions. We defended all our amendments. We tried to fix this law which, we say, alone as a law is not as controversial as the controversial social circumstances in which it is brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27774	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27775	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, sometimes a demagogue story doesn't require a long answer. Mr. Janko Vesenović, otherwise a graduate lawyer, a doctor of law and a professor at the Faculty of Agriculture, but no matter what, he knows that the legalisation procedure is not a court case, and we are talking about a court procedure here. So I'm not going to say that this is elemental ignorance, because he knows it very well. This is about absolute demagogy. The second thing, as it is said here, is that we don't judge on such a small amount of mental suffering by someone who's been slow for a long time. The first thing, this amount you see here has been appreciated based on our practice so far, and just to introduce you to that practice, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has ruled out a compensation in the dinar equivalent of 200 euros. So here we have 50% increase. Why don't you say so? Why don't you say that this range, when we look at the real value of money and when we look at the value of the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia in the last year, is greater than in one Slovenia? There is a maximum of 5,000 euros in cash. This is about five average monthly earnings there. I know it's your job, and thank God, that's why the opposition exists, that's why you're criticizing, but come on, at least be argued. I'm glad you're saying that this is a law that is cosmetic, that this is the makeup of something called a bad judiciary, because the Council of Europe said that this is an extremely good bill, because this law lasted almost seven to eight months of public debate, as it was never during the time when your party led this country, under another name and led the judiciary in which millions of old cases are now to be fought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27776	Right on line, MP Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27777	Dear Mr. Selakovic, I don't think I have to draw everything for you as a lawyer and I didn't do it. So, it is not disputed, Mr. Selakovic, you know that the legalisation procedure is not a court case, but the citizen mentioned has initiated a court case. He sued the city because he felt that it had been done to him, because he had completed the procedure once. So now he's running a trial, paid a lawyer, and he's asking for a verdict in his favor. That's what we're talking about, Mr. Selakovic. Don't use any finesse. That doesn't suit you. You're a serious lawyer and you, as I told you last time, in a certain sense have my respect, first of all, for the reason that you've graduated from the state college and what you're doing as one of the few ministers in the government with a state college and for not getting anything else. In that sense, Mr. Selakovic, I'm talking about people who won't have adequate satisfaction. You can talk about something that happened. I said - let us try to see what is now and what will be, whether the people who are in court now will receive adequate satisfaction, and yours, Mr Selakovic, and here you have our support, and my and the entire parliamentary groups, I suppose the entire opposition, will do everything to make the judiciary work better, more effectively and that there is no such procedure at all, that there are no lawsuits or proceedings concerning the trial within an unreasonable period, because that is our goal, our common goal. Then we will have citizens who live in the rule of law and who know if any of their rights are usurped either by a natural person or by a state, that this right will be established within the appropriate time limit, that they will get a certain satisfaction in terms of judgment, but in terms of compensation. Don't replace the thesis. I hope we're at the same job, Mr. Selakovic. There's no need to talk like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27778	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27779	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are not used here with any small threads. You take it nice, you read the law from beginning to end, you read the argument, and then you see that the purpose of this law is not primary to someone getting money. The aim of this law is to enable a citizen who is threatened to be wronged by the right to trial within a reasonable period of time so that if a violation of that right is established, that the dispute is closed as soon as possible, not to get the money, so that he is no longer interested in the end of the dispute. If he cares about money, he has the right under this law to initiate the procedure, to press charges against the Republic of Serbia and to demand compensation in a significantly greater amount than this law allows when, in some cases, a somewhat more intense violation of the law. That's one thing. Another thing, as Minister of Government, I must say responsibly that the overwhelming majority of ministers in the government have graduated from the state college. If someone hasn't graduated from the state college, then he's finished eventually a college that this country recognizes and has allowed this country to open up and work. Whether it's good or not, it's something you and I can do as people who work at state colleges to have some discussion. Do these colleges work by law? If they work by law, if they're accredited by this state, as they are, what can we object to? Those aren't any small jokes. There are, as you say in the ruling parties, opposition parties of people who couldn't graduate from the state college, studied him for five, six, eight years, two years of that college, and then went to some private and ended up in a year and a half of the remaining studies or in five months ended the remaining two years. You know, these are things that talk more about people like that than about us. Don't let us go ad personam and call people personal. We're here to discuss a good bill and I'm glad you support its idea and purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27780	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Janko Veselinovic is somehow always trying to be funny, but it never goes with him. I didn't report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but before I say anything about the amendment, I have to say that Mr. Janko Veselinovic hurt the dignity of the National Assembly when he said that Mr. Veroljub Arsic, when he came here to the bench where the other MPs sat, spoke to some kind of radical dictionary. That's just not true. Mr. Arsic pointed out to you that in 2003, the DS introduced a state of emergency, that the DS had arrested more than 15,000 people without legal basis, so the state had to pay huge compensation, that, I think, by October 2003, TV transmissions from the National Assembly and that the state was in a state of total lawlessness. After all, not only did MP Veroljub Arsic and other SNS MPs talk about it, but that's what you didn't want to say, or maybe you forgot, warned international human rights organisations, such as Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, etc.. They drew your attention to what you were doing in 2003, that you applied methods that were not absolutely applied in any democratic state. As for these malignancies of yours on state and private colleges, so now they're the good ones who finished state colleges, and the bad ones are the ones who finished private colleges, my question to Mr. Vesenovic and all of you from DS in various aggregate states, I'm sorry, who introduced those private colleges into the Republic of Serbia? Has the president of your party, Boris Tadic, as president of the Republic, cut those red ribbons of various private colleges? Did you take a picture of yourself with various rectors and deans of private colleges, so you said it was in line with the latest European achievements, that it was in line with the Bologna Declaration, that it would improve higher education in Serbia? Now all of a sudden, when you went to the opposition and you barely crossed the census, people don't work, no matter what political parties they come from, who have finished private colleges. For example, I don't look at it that way at all. You remember that a few years ago, an unprecedented affair occurred in a single, unfortunately state college, the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia. The Index affair and the affair have not ended yet. So don't mechanically divide colleges into good and bad, given who their founder is. As there are good professors and good students at state schools, there are also bad professors and bad students at state schools and vice versa, good professors and good students at private schools, bad professors and bad students at private colleges. You say, on behalf of your entire parliamentary group and on behalf of the DS parliamentary group, you support essentially the determination of Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic. I see you and this lady sitting behind you, Mrs. Karavidic. Of these former party buddies of yours, other than Zoran Zivkovic, I don't see anyone. So there's nothing special to brag about. That whole assembly of MPs of yours is counting to the top of three people's heads. As for the amendments and the explanations of the amendments, here I will try to use the milder term, the more pointless the explanation for this amendment I have not heard in my life. You say – it is little that the bill stipulates that monetary compensation is recognised at 300 euros to 3,000 euros in dinar equivalent on the day of payment to the middle rate of the NBS per case, because you think that 300 euros, as a lower limit, is little and you suggest 1000 euros because, my God, the party while paying the lawyer, so the state pays her 300 euros, what's left of it. The Minister of Justice told you nicely. You're a graduate lawyer. You graduated from some state law school of your law school, you're a law professor. I'm referring you to article 27. - independently of the type and height of the claim, in the proceedings before the court, the provisions on disputes of the small value of the law governing the litigation procedure shall be applied accordingly. Mr. Veselinovic, the one who loses in the litigation process, is costing the procedure. If the party gets into a dispute state and proves that it's not meant to be within a reasonable period, then who's carrying her expenses? The one who lost the dispute, the Republic of Serbia. Do not deceive citizens that they, for example, 300, 400 or 500 euros, when they get, will have to pay lawyers, so they will have nothing left. Either you don't know the basics of the litigation process or you deliberately deceive the citizens. Don't do that. You mentioned here, otherwise you like to go to the width, legalize, talk about Swiss francs, ask God what you don't think of in those seven, eight minutes as far as you can, but let me ask you a question now. You act one way when you're in power, and otherwise you act when you're in opposition. Now I ask you, as an SNS MP and as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, you who are calling over the fate of citizens who took loans in Swiss francs, who destroyed the banking system in the Republic of Serbia? Who destroyed the domestic banks? Who said domestic banks aren't good and foreign banks are great? Who opened those foreign banks? Who has allowed foreign banks to pay loans at interest rates considered a criminal offense in the Republic of Serbia since 2000? A democratic party. Why is Minister Selakovic or SNS now to blame for the situation that you and your party or former party have brought to the banking system of the Republic of Serbia? You who have ruined everything, you who have allowed foreign banks to do what they are doing, and now you have found in connection with this bill, which is small by its own size, to teach here the Minister of Justice and all of us from the SNS parliamentary group how you care about the interests of citizens. You take care of the interests of the citizens, so you won't rob them. Who robbed Serbian citizens? A democratic party. That's what I told Mark Djurishic yesterday. Like now it's a big question – who stole the election? A democratic party. Who introduced it when you get to the polling station, so you get 50 euros, then you take out the ballot, then you give it to another person, etc.? A democratic party. You were educated in Budapest in 2000 before those elections in September how to steal elections. Say it wasn't like that. You all think that citizens in Serbia have chicken memory and remember what's happened in the last two days. I know what happened in 2000. I know what you were doing in September 2000 and October 2000, as I know what you were doing in 2003 and 2008 and 2012 and so on, and how you ruined the "Vojvodine Development Bank", the Capital Investment Fund, the Development Fund, etc., so you declared the creation of homes of culture, local communities, at a cost 10 times the price of invoiced contracts, so half of you, half of me...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27782	Mr. Martinovic, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27783	... half strangers, half in my pocket, etc. Who made it all up? The Democratic Party in various aggregate states. It was called DS, SDS, New Party, it doesn't matter. Same government, same regime, same logic, same system, drop system. It's the only system you know. To repeat for the sake of the citizens, so as not to be mistaken, if they get the state in the dispute because they have proven that they are not tried within a reasonable period, they will not pay out of their 300 euros of lawyers, as you deceive them, the state will pay. This is the basic postulate of the litigation process. The one who loses the dispute makes up for the cost of the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27784	Mr. Zivkovic, on what grounds? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I am mentioned personally, the party is mentioned. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Zivkovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27785	And now you've heard again a bizarrely offensive statement from a colleague sitting out there, when I heard it, you heard it too, and it's really hard to contribute to the quality of work in this House. But it doesn't matter to some people it's all forgiven, God keeps it that way, so there's no story. My name is mentioned in the "Sabbe" action, my party was mentioned as part of a criminal mosaic that was created after the collapse of the then DS. Proud of the years I spent in the DS, in active operation it means until early 2004 since 1992, I repeat once again proud of the action "Sabbe", of course the cause was very bad and there is no need for me to tell anyone. But the effects of this action that would otherwise have been carried out and if the late prime minister had remained alive, because the preparation was already ready for the action only the cause was so ugly and so difficult, otherwise it would have happened without it, because of the Serbian public, 11665 people were detained, so not arrested, brought to an informative conversation. From that, 3,500 were held in custody, and 268 people were compensated for unlawful arrest. I'm saying that more than half of them got that just because their lawyer was a man who was later a minister of justice, and the state was losing those disputes because the state wasn't coming out... (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Who is he? Stojkovic. Because the state didn't go to the hearings, so they lost, otherwise the ones who got the biggest damage were absolutely brought in with the pantry. So, that's usually a shame that was caused by an illegal arrest and look at it, and the minister of justice can look at it, because I think there's this statistic in the Justice Department, it's less or less the same as every year. So there were no extreme situations. What was extreme at that time is that as a consequence of the "Sabbe" action at that time, crime in Serbia was reduced to a minimum in the history of this country and everyone knows it very well. So I repeat once again, I'm proud of all this, and if anyone thinks there was something at the time, that's why there's a court.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27786	Right on line, MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27787	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, unlike my colleague Martinovic, who also, I suppose, graduated from some law school, state, my memory goes far beyond 2012, 2013 or 2001. My memory goes back to 1990 until the date or year when they, along with their current coalition partners, ruled. But at that time, the salaries of Serbian citizens were one euro. On the hoods, cars were bought fuel and milk, and I remember, of course, in 2012 and theft, or never proven stealing choices that led to victory and your coming to power and all that I remember. I also remember the fact that last week, for the first time since the UN body since the 1990s, we received a serious warning for violating the rights of the Citizens' Protector and that after many years, the UN is dealing with Serbia in a very bad context. And that some European officials in their court statements say that the human rights situation in Serbia is solid, and behind closed doors tell you the real truth, Serbian citizens know what Serbia is living in and know what their salaries are, and what their pensions are, and how they respect citizens' rights. All the citizens of Serbia know that. We do not call it the fate of citizens, we ask that you respect basic human rights, human rights acquired and that you do not force Serbian citizens from Serbia to stay here. Unfortunately, by coming to power three years ago, a large number of Serbian citizens had to move out looking for a job, and this is a process that is going on, unconstitutional, primarily thanks to you in various aggregate states stemming from the SRS. That's right, Mr. Martinovic, and unfortunately for that reason, Serbia returned in the 1990s. This is also shown by the state of the media, it is shown by the state of the judiciary, it is also shown by the state of our health, education, etc. That's why it would be very good if you didn't go back to the past, try to fix as much as possible the present for which you're also responsible, because for three years you've been in power and you've been always calling it, over a period when you weren't in power, and that's a very small number of years since 1990. A very small number of years since 1990. My party has been in power for about seven years in various aggregate states, and your coalition for 17 years. Your current coalition, if you count well and look back from 1990 to 2014 DS in various aggregate states was in power for seven years, and you were in 17 years. Therefore, do not distract the public, do not use what is not true, and it is better to talk about the law. We had a very polite conversation with the minister at certain times when he wasn't a SNS supporter, but you started a debate in the course that suits you. That flow, unfortunately, which is the course of history, is not a bit favourable for you. That's the course of history you brought back. You brought us back to the 1990s. Unfortunately, we live that time, but we'll fight. We didn't run out of energy even though we remember the 1990s, even though we fought back then, we'll fight in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27788	Five minutes right on the line, Mr. Veselinovic. It is my right and obligation to keep an eye on the application of the Rules of Procedure and my conduct and behavior of a fellow SNS officer talking about that we are far ahead of you in democracy, because I could only dream for five minutes on the line. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27789	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, here's Mr. Veselinovic, I confess everything, what you said. I also admit that I was in power in the 1990s even though I was 14. I admit that in Serbia and Europe at all, in 1990, there was a euro and that the salary was one euro. I also admit that DS had its ministers in the federal government in 1992, that Slobodan Milosevic had borrowed from DS Slobodan Radulovic, who was later involved in various affairs and malversions. As I also know, since 2000, and when it comes to Vojvodina from 2000 to 2000, you have ruled this country to this day, and you have brought it into such a state that this Serbia is a one-stop shop and that the SNS is now supposed to make a country of foundation. So everything collapsed. You burned everything, you left nothing behind, absolutely nothing. You want me to remind you of what happened back in the '90s? Who was making coalitions with whom, and who made what statements? In 1992. A Sokoban declaration by the DS on the need to unite the entire Serbian people from all Serbian countries. In 1994, the cover of the list "Views" from November, I remember well Mr. Veselinović, although I am younger than you in 1994, says – the opposition Vojislav Seselj, Vojislav Kostunica, Zoran Djindjic, 1994. In 1993, along with Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic, you turn the ox on the Palace and show the muscles of NATO to planes that you are not afraid of them. In 1999, you say – strike only in Serbia, rather Milosevic will fall. In 2000, you burn the Federal Assembly, turn on Serbia's Radio-Television and 50 people beat the then director of Serbia's Radio-Television. Those of you who talk about beatings, black jeeps, etc., that's what you've been doing. All the choices, except for the ones you stole to the point where you had to force God to win, you stole. You invented the technology of election theft. The Democratic Party patented it. This will study in textbooks how elections are stolen and how state resources are used for party purposes. You showed this 20 days ago when you used a hotel, which is normally owned by the AP Vojvodina, not Bojan Pajtic and the Democratic Party, as a prison and concentration camp to hold committees so as not to attend the meeting of the Indji Municipality. So these are all inventions and all the great democratic achievements of you, Mr. Veselinović, and your current or former party comrades. The gentleman who boasted in 2003 and how he was a successful prime minister, etc., is not only clear to me from all these successes that he managed to lose the elections that were held in December 2003. When someone's so successful, when there's no crime in the state, then I guess he wins the election, not loses. He lost that election. He says there was no crime. He wasn't there because the party and state apparatus had a monopoly on criminal acts. Who could have been dealing drugs? Who could have done oil smuggling? Who could have done anything that was contrary to the law besides the people of the state's apparatus? Then you say there was no crime. He was gone when you had a monopoly on the entire crime in the state, as you now have a monopoly on crime in Vojvodina. Who, now, steals the citizens of the Duke today? The same ones that have been in power since 2000. You're talking about censorship in the media. Mr. Veselinović, when you turn on the Duke's day radio television today, I feel like I'm watching HTV, believe me. It's so ugly talking about the Serbian government, it's so ugly talking about some kind of Belgrade there. It's not Serbia, it's Belgrade that's robbing Vojvodina. The Duke is being robbed by those who, unfortunately, have ruled since 2000, and you are part of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27790	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The first right to replica has Dr. Janko Veselinović. Now let's go for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27791	I don't know, Chairman, whether I'm going to have this extended replica or... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27792	I just said two minutes. You're even, one-one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27793	So Mr. Martinovic admitted that there are camps in Serbia. Mr. Martinovic said one sentence that is for the emergency session of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Security Council and all services. So there are camps in Serbia. Only the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and, of course, all of you who control those ministries can be responsible for these camps. On the other hand, you've said a lot of things that I could agree with, about what your role was in the decommissioning of the state, the destruction of its institutions, the economic destruction of Serbia, its villages, its cities, leaving Serbian citizens and going abroad. It was all, of course, conducted by the Serbian Radical Party in various aggregate states. You said, however, another assessment that you will have to prove. I assume you're standing tight behind her. It is that the Radio-Television of Vojvodina is adequate according to the Croatian Radio-Television programme. I assume you're behind these claims and I assume you know that the Vojvodina Radio Television is funded by the state from the state budget. I assume you're aware that you've led to the situation that in the state, other than the camp, we have a TV that's anti-stately in the mood.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27794	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica! Mr. Zivkovic, on what basis, please? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: Mention directly. Now you're not mentioned directly. Now the absolute didn't mention you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: "The prime minister who lost the election... “ There are more prime ministers who have lost the election. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Okay, if you're pretending now naive... Mr. Zivkovic, I know you want... Also now the next thing you say you can say about mentioning the name of the Democratic Party. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I wait for you to give me the word or not.) So either you give me your word, or you don't give me your word. You have no basis for replication. Right on line, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27795	It's not the first time, and I'm sorry that these scenes keep repeating themselves. When this Assembly tries to discuss the amendment process, there is always a certain person on the other side who comes out and brings out a series of insults, untruths, lies, accusations and everything else, which, every day, means that you are enriching our political life, thinking naively, as the party I belong to once thought, that it can hold water for a long time, and that people will trust you with that noise, your nonsense and the anger that you are passing on here to your political inexperiences. I don't mind what you say, nothing. There's only one thing that bothers me that you've said that you can't prove to me that you can't do, that the DS stole the election and that we invented that system. And that's what those people in front of the Assembly used to say, who you didn't find out who brought those sacks, who stole the election and when, and on that basis, you did it deliberately and promised the citizens that you'd investigate it. You don't have the cheek, because you'd have to know what the cheek is to say something like that. You really think that's gonna work out for you, that people are gonna believe you? People who already hear about your party's name turn their heads to the other side. Yeah, yeah, don't laugh. They don't turn their heads when they mention the party president, but they turn their heads on your party, not yet realizing that this same president of your party is all of you the way you chose. He brought you all here to tell us at least anything in the Serbian Parliament. You think it's a camp if you sit down with your councilmen. You think it's a crime that we opened up Serbia to the world and restored it when you ruined it. You think someone's gonna forget about it in this country? No one will forget that, gentlemen. And that's not a threat. I'm just saying what all citizens see and every day more and more. Your anxiety and anger of coming freedom is what will eventually bring you down into the dust, where you belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27796	Right on line, MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Why, on what basis? You mentioned the client. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Not true, not the party, not him. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27797	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if no one is afraid of SNS right now, it's DS. What anyone thinks of the SNS, who thinks of the DS, the citizens said in March 2014, in a whole series of repeated or extraordinary local elections, including the province's elections by the majority system, which the DS list lost. In Vojvodina, Mr Stefanovic, if you want to be precise, in March 2014, of 45 Vojvodina municipalities and cities, you have not crossed the censorship into 19 municipalities and cities. That's almost half of it. There, such a high opinion is given to the citizens of Vojvodina of the DS and to these great successes you have achieved in Vojvodina for these 15 years of government. As for what Mr. Vesenovic said, it is true that the state of Serbia is financing the Vojvodina Radio Television, but the DS is editing the Vojvodina Radio Television. There is no day to turn on RT Vojvodina, not some show in which in the smallest way is spoken no about Alexander Vukic, not about the SNS, it is not so terrible. About the Serbian government. About the state of Serbia. You scare citizens living in Vojvodina with foreign investors who need to come and invest their capital. You who boast that you have opened Serbia to the world now fear the world from once. One day the Arabs don't match you, I don't know why. Come on now, I understand, the Arabs don't suit you, and now the Germans don't match you from once. Now that the German wants to invest his capital, it's no good either. When a Finn wants to invest his capital in Preboy, he's no good either. Nobody's good, nobody knows anything, you know everything, you're the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27798	Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: You say I have been in power for 17 years. I admit it. I've been in power for 17 years. How many years have you been in power, Mr. Veselinović? If I was 17 years old, you were 500 years old, like Serbia under the Turks). Right on line, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27799	Yeah, now with that difference that my party was mentioned, you know. So, well, well, you know I'm inspired by your sweet voices. I must say, neither did we fear the SRS nor the SNS, so neither did we, how can I tell you, so you didn't win anything in Vojvodina, as I recall, in those difficult years for your party, which was created with great support from the people of the DS. But like any child made in the wrong way, it comes after that to collect it from its political fathers, so you did, but it will not reduce your responsibility for three years of Serbia's collapse, primarily in economic and social terms. Don't tell me the DS is doing RT Vojvodina. There is no one to frighten the citizens of Vojvodina with the government of Serbia, but these are shows where you are often seen by guests. You have the right there to say your opinion, unlike any other media you are editing today in Serbia. I must tell you, we are not afraid of Arabs or Germans, nor are we having problems with any investor coming out of the world with the intention of investing capital in this country, we have said that many times. The only thing that scares us is the next fact that these Arabs, Serbian citizens, have not seen one yet, except one, in front of the model, which has dropped from 3.5 billion to 300 million and has extended from four years to 30 years. That's what we're afraid of. Well, we're afraid of people who need to import pigs into Serbia to sell them in Russia, until our peasant can grow none. Well, we're afraid of the FAP where you said you'd hire 200 people, and now it turns out you're going to hire 60 people in FAP. That's what scares us. We don't mind, the investor has no color. But the way you worship them and the way you serve that market, and that's what will bring you down, because the citizens of your stories and your promises have nothing living but suffering and misery. Believe me, you can show as much as you want. What you're showing me is what you've been used to in SNS lately.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27800	Mr. Veselinović, on what grounds? (Janko Veselinović, from the place: He mentioned me directly, twice. He mentioned you twice. For the first time, he mentioned you in the context of the DS editing of the RT Vojvodina. That question was raised by you when you said that the state of Serbia is funding the RT of Vojvodina. Are you from DS? Secondly, a colleague Martinovic asked you how many years you've been in power, but since he gave the wrong answer that you've been in power for 500 years, tell us exactly how many you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27801	Yeah. The correct answer is that we've been in power for seven years in various aggregate states, and they're 17 years in various aggregate states. But Serbian citizens are probably more interested in this last thing Mr. Martinovic said. They are not Serbian citizens against foreign investment. No one is in Vojvodina against foreign investment, whether they're Arabs or they're Germans. But what happened to those friends of yours, as you say to the Arabs. They bought 4,000 hectares in Vojvodina of the best country, as they say, as well as the button grows in the plant, and they process only 2,000 hectares, and those 2,000 hectares have grown into weeds. And that's what happens in Vojvodina only when the family runs out of family heads. The land in Vojvodina is never left in the weeds. Two thousand acres is in the weed. And as for the investments of the Germans, you are probably referring to pigs that should be raised in several municipalities in Banat today, as my esteemed colleague Lazic spoke of and who justified the environmental and other aspects of the migration of dirty technology from Germany to Serbia. She said, of course, that there would be a certain number of workers employed there and said that they were usually called pigs. That's all of your foreign investments, Mr. Martinovic. When it comes to Serbia and when it comes to Vojvodina, I note investments for the sewing machine where Mr. Vukic was photographed, and these machines have not worked tomorrow. A FAP as a FAP. We're just going to talk about FAP as we're going to talk about 37-euro apartments, as we're going to talk about the other promised ones, and never the promises of this government that came to power with lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27802	Mr. Veselinović, I ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. It's not a pig farm. It's a pig farm. And I wish we had agricultural production at the level of 1988, 89. I didn't notice that in 1903 we were missing something from a pig who was supporting Serbia and missing it. The People's MP Zoran Babic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27803	I see some colleagues don't understand the aggregates and what aggregate states mean, so I'll explain it to them. There are three aggregate states, solid, liquid and gas. It's usually water in different aggregate states. And, as DS used to be as solid as ice when the citizens believed it then turned into water, and now they're aggregated states regardless of whether it was called SDS, DS or whatever, now it's about money, evaporation, fog. These are aggregates, gentlemen. As for who made the SNS. Serbia's advanced party was built by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It was made by Tomislav Niko, Alexander Vucic, by these people who had patiently and proudly suffered years and years of hard years when we could never reach any media, oppression, loss of work, for their families, personally. When heresy was being a member of the SNS. But these brave men have made SNS ion nothing to do with DS except that it's created in anger, in disappointment, in unfulfilled promises, in lies, in kidnapping, in robbery, in everything you've done for all the years of government, for all the years. And, today, what Bojan Pajtic and DS are doing in Vojvodina. She has nothing to do with SNS. I'm asking you, when you have nothing to do with public service, and who's changed at a public service? In the office, in management policy? Both RTS and TV? Who's changed since 2012, gentlemen? What were you doing? 50 of you were beaten by the director of RTS with a hood and a kalashnikov you entered the NBS. You burned down the National Assembly here, taking pictures, TVs and furniture. It's your manners. Well, why do we think now, so who beats people in Serbia? The same ones who beat the director of RTS, the same ones who burned this assembly. The same ones that got into the NBS with the AKs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27804	It's time, Grandma.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27805	They're a little more sophisticated now. You know, now they're bringing into hotels owned by the AP Vojvodina. Now they're bringing in hotels, and then they're fighting in hotels like they beat Mr. Cacic. They're a little more modern now. But, you know, it's not anger. It is the democratic right of Bojan Pajtic and DS to beat people in a democratic way, and then those who fight on a polygraph, then those who fight come out smiling, and we beat like Mr. Cacic, like those members of the SNS, can't even say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27806	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. On the basis of Article 112, I'm setting a 10-minute break for the Rules of Procedure. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament continue to work. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, together have submitted an amendment suggesting that Section 9a and a new member of 33a be added after article 33. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted an amendment suggesting that the name and new member of 36a be added after article 36a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together have submitted an amendment suggesting that the name and the new member of 36a be added after membership. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE COURT OF JUDGES You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozović, Jovan Marković, Jovan Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Šutanovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Marko Djurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Prof. Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić, Dr. Blaže Bradić, Zoran Zivović and Vladimir Pavić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Prof. Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blagoje Bradić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Marjanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Prof. Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blagoje Bradić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have completed the debate on the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly can set a day for voting on a proposal for individual laws, will be immediately upon the end of the review of the bill. In accordance with this provision, I hereby designate Thursday 7 May 2015, starting at 19.15 hours as the day for voting on the first two points of the agenda of this session, i.e. the proposal for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-07-0.u27808	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 135 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that we have conditions to decide. I put the motion for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – six abstentions – there is no, there is no voter of a total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The name above Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – there is no, 134 out of the total attendance of the 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 137 out of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 137 out of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 137 out of 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 136 out of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 137 out of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 137 out of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was tabled by a group of 11 MPs from the "BORIS TADIĆ – Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – there is no, 134 out of the total attendance of the 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 134 out of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – two, abstentions – there are no, 132 out of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 134 out of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 132 out of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs of the "BORIS TADIĆ – Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 132 out of the total attendance of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 130 of the total of the 138 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 131 out of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 133 of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of four MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 132 of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against -no one, with abstentions - there is no, 137 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of four MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 134 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 132 of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 129 of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 134 of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of four MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 133 of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 134 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs of the League of Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 134 of the total of 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 132 of the total of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – seven, against – one, the abstention – there is no, 129 of the total of 137 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 of the total of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of four MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 132 of the total of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 132 of the total of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 132 of the total of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of four MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 132 of the total of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against –no one, with abstention – there is no vote, 131 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 132 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 130 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 132 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 132 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of four MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 131 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 132 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 131 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 130 of the total of 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 131 of the total of 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 125 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of four MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 130 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 133 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic to article 14. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 132 of the total of 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 127 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 133 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of four MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 132 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 131 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstentions – there is no, 136 of the total of 138 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 127 of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 139 out of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of four MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 137 of the total of 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 134 of the total of 139 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 137 of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 134 of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 130 of the total of 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 135 of the total of 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of four MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 of the total of 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – two abstentions – voted 138 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against one, abstained, voted 138 of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 137 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – one, abstention – voted 139 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 139 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 137 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 137 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 136 of the 140 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 134 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 133 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 135 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of four MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 134 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "BORIS TADIĆ – Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 135 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Milan Petrovic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 134 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 138 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs of the League of Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 133 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "BORIS TADIĆ – Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 133 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of four MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted an amendment suggesting that section 9a and a new member of 33a be added after Article 33a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 135 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together have submitted an amendment proposing that the name and new member of 36a be added after article 36a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 138 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs from the "BORIS TADIĆ – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", tabled an amendment proposing that the name and new member of 36a be added after article 36a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 135 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the motion for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – six abstentions – none, one of the 141 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON SURVEILLANCE OF JUDGE LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Judges' Law, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – six abstentions – there are no votes, three of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and a group of 11 MPs of the "BORIS TADIĆ – Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 135 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 135 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and a group of 11 MPs of the "BORIS TADIĆ – Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 134 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on the addition of the Judges' Law, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – six abstentions – there are no, none who have not voted, of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Law on Judges. I thank you for your work. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. Please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 119 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, Mirjana Dragas, Konstantin Arsenović, Dr Muamer Bačevac and Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović. We continue to work and move on to a search in particular of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Private Security Act. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Interior Minister Milorad Todorovic, Interior Ministry Secretary Tamara Zlatic, legal adviser for normative affairs at the Ministry of the Interior Secretariat, Rade Krunic, Assistant Chief of Police and Natas Ignatovic, Head of the Police Department. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Private Security. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the competent committees, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157 paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure, I am opening a review of the bill in particular. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
