ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20609	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 72 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Dear Members of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am now setting a break until the committee responsible has submitted the necessary amendments and reports to the draft law. We'll continue work at 16 hours and 30 minutes. [[After a break.]] We can keep working. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milena Ćorilić, Natasa Vukkovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Marijan Maras. We continue to investigate the details of the bill on prevention and diagnostics of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Committee on Health and Family. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20611	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, we have submitted 19 amendments to this law, as we said in the principle debate. The Proposer and the Committee have accepted eight. I think two or three more ideas have been adopted through the amendment of the Committee and I would like to thank the legislator, as well as the members of the Committee who had an understanding of our ideas. We're going to try to convince you of a few more amendments that we think are important, but they're not accepted, through a discussion today. We are pleased that this debate is constructive in principle and has given this result that a good part of our amendments are accepted and that after today's debate and the adoption of all amendments, we will have a better law than it was an original proposal, and that at the end of this law we will achieve the purpose for which the law is proposed and which is why today is on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20612	The 6th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20613	I just want to thank the legislator of this bill for understanding and adopting our amendments. The MP group that I belong to the SDS-ZZS-ZS has made every effort to work with other colleagues to fix this law. I hope that this law will be to the satisfaction of patients who are eager to bring something like this into Serbian health and that we will not have the opportunity, that we have done it well enough, that we will not have the opportunity to repair it through the next period that is ahead of us. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20614	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20615	This is one of the amendments that has not been accepted and I will try to share in a few minutes with MPs who have been around Article 10, so possibly the MPs will consider whether to accept it. They're talking about banning half selection. We have suggested that Article 10 be changed and it is said: “It is forbidden to use diagnostic procedures before conception or during pregnancy for the purpose of selecting half a child. ” I hope we all agree on this finding. "The Office for Biomedicine of the Republic of Serbia decides to exempt from the prohibition under Article 1 when half of the child's selection is required to avoid gender-related diseases, which is listed in the Register of Rare Diseases. The decision referred to in Article 2 shall be taken within eight days. An appeal by the Minister responsible for health affairs shall be granted against this decision under Article 2(2). The Minister responsible for Health Affairs for the complaint referred to in Article 4 shall decide within eight days. An administrative dispute may be initiated against this solution. “ We have done this because we believe that the solution given by the promoter is. offered not to regulate in an adequate manner the issue of banning half selection, i.e. removing this ban. Given the possible consequences of gender selection, we believe that it is necessary to regulate this procedure in more detail, as we have proposed in this amendment. In addition, this amendment referred to the subsequent application of the administrative procedure, thus ensuring the two-stage decision-making and thus control and prevention of any error, and we shortened the decision-making deadlines in relation to the administrative procedure and in view of the medical situation of the patient in which these decisions are possibly made, and when the time is of crucial importance. So I ask you to reconsider and eventually, when the amendments are voted, to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20616	The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20617	Thank you. We have not accepted on the Committee and it is good that it is not accepted, because I think that the explanation given by Mr Bradic, or by the group, only unnecessarily complicates this member who is very clear, very precise in the law given, so it is quite unnecessary that we further complicate him with some further limitations, which will only lead to confusion in later action. That is the main reason why we did not accept this amendment on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20618	The word is made by the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20619	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, as the legislator of this law, I did not accept it either, because my opinion was that an unnecessary extension of a member of this law was made. The consultations were jointly carried out with the Department of Biomedicine and Legal Service of the Ministry of Health and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so we felt there was no need to extend this member, since it was clearly defined in this Article of the law by all those regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20620	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20621	Just one more explanation for the esteemed colleagues. Article 10 says: “It is forbidden to use the diagnostic procedure before conception or during pregnancy for the purpose of selecting half a child unless it seems to avoid severe hereditary diseases related to sex. ” Paragraph 2 reads: "Agreement to exempt from the prohibition laid down in Article 1 is given by the Office for Biomedicine of the Republic of Serbia". We had the same idea as distinguished colleagues, but we wanted to enable two-stageness and to shorten the decision-making period to eight days because of the very process of pregnancy and the time it takes to possibly have an abortion, i.e. The pregnancy interruption is done in some reasonable medical time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20622	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The government has submitted to the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs put together: Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malovic, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Health and Family has submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The promoter did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Article 2 16, 18, 25 and 27 amendments were filed by the Government. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs submitted to the 16th amendment together: Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Health and Family has submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The promoter did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20623	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to make a statement, since I did not accept only three proposals that came from my colleagues, because they came literally half an hour before the meeting of the Assembly Committee on Health and Family. Since we had a lot of time, Zoya's law has been in the congregation procedure for a year and a few days, everyone could get insight and put the amendment on. All proposed amendments, as you can see, are harmonised in one more than a correct and decent atmosphere with the health ministry's legal service, with the Biomedicine Department, with the Serbian Parliament's legal service. I didn't want those three amendments to spoil, not to be in collegiate with other laws of the Republic of Serbia. That's the only reason I've got an opinion, that's why. I wasn't up for those three amendments. Otherwise, my colleague Poscuric, a professor, I respect and appreciate it very much, but only if he had submitted a little earlier and we had more time to consider on the legal side whether these three amendments fit into the existing Health Protection Act and some other laws of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20624	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs: Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Health and Family has submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Health and Family has submitted to the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment. The promoter accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Health and Family Committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, etc. Blagoje Bradic. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government submitted the title above Article 23 and Article 23 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, etc. Blagoje Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20625	The Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Proposer of this Law, in this amendment, we have sought to remove any idea of inequality, or the possibility of a future father being deprived of information about his child. In this article of the law, which we have responded to, the doctor is obliged to inform only the mother of the child of genetic studies, the potential mother of the child, and not the partner of the woman, regarding the examinations concerning that fruit, and concerning the future child, and in this way, by me and by colleagues from the Parliament club, it is possible that equality and violation of the principle of gender equality, and in any case it is very controversial on the legal side that the future father does not have information about a genetic study for a child whose father he is going to be a father. I'm not quite sure whether the proposer of this law was right when he refused to accept this amendment, because it could lead to legal doubt, we can assume one situation that could happen in reality that was genetically tested, that the mother was familiar with the results of that genetic examination, that she decided not to be, let's say, not to continue the pregnancy and that the child was not born without the father being familiar with it. Or if we had a reverse situation if the mother wanted to, and if the father would eventually stand up to it. So that's one serious legal question. I think we may have made a decision lightly and may have created a legal problem for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20626	Thank you. The word is Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20627	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We discussed this amendment on the Committee on Health and Family very hard to discuss, and the discussion lasted quite a bit, where there was reflection in the opinion. I am inclined to believe that Mr Bradic and the parliamentary group are right about this amendment, I will vote personally for this amendment. I couldn't agree to not accept this amendment. A lot of things Mr. Veselinović explained, and that stands. In this case, you will allow me to say, without being convicted of it, I have the impression that this amendment is a Women's Parliamentary Network, because it completely excludes the father of a child from a genetic examination. We allow a woman to decide for herself whether a partner, whether it's a marriage partner or an out-of-marriage partner, will have the opportunity to know that the child has some genetic malformation or not, and to be surprised at the birth of that child later, may have agreed or disagreed with that. Second, an explanation that was given that a wife or wife could inform her partner about it. But we can get into a situation so she doesn't deliberately inform him about it, or ask the doctor not to inform her partner. If there is no legal regulation that the doctor is obliged to inform the partner, i.e. the father of the child, in this case is led astray and participates in a certain way, in the fraud of the partner who is the father of that child. So I think that MPs should consider this amendment and I think that despite the fact that the Committee has not accepted this amendment, I think this amendment should be accepted, because we cannot rule out partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20628	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20629	President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected colleagues, have not accepted the proposal for this amendment, but through one form of amendment of the Assembly committee, we have given one explanation where it is proposed that a doctor as a responsible person is required to inform a female partner of the result of genetic examination if he participates in the genetic counselling process. Dear colleagues, there's a possibility that you can't find that wife's partner, that woman. You can't find a girl's partner, she doesn't have to be a woman, she can be a girl and she's a partner somewhere in Siberia and you can't make a doctor go to Siberia to inform that partner. Maybe the woman doesn't want to inform that partner. So, a partner has to keep an eye on when a child begins in the act of sex. After that, the woman has every right to do so, and the woman decides. Thus, the Assembly Committee on Health and Family has found one solution that says that a doctor as a responsible person is obliged to inform a pregnant woman’s partner only if he participates in the genetic counselling process. After Article 8, a new position of 9 is added, which states that the provision of this article is also applied to the pre-inplantation genetic diagnostics procedures, in the case of medically assisted fertilisation procedures. So one solution is proposed, which is more celery and takes into account that the possible situation is that the partner is unknown. If you're saying he has to inform his partner, then we're breaking the law. How can a doctor find a partner if he's not here? So the Committee is going with this amendment, respecting MPs' proposals from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20630	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jasmina Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20631	Thank you very much. It absolutely makes me happy with the explanation you've given, sir, or the committee's position. I would like to say to my esteemed colleague, Dr Mijatovic, that the Women's Parliamentary Network has not written this amendment, but has closely followed the whole procedure regarding Zoya's law. I can't be like someone who's from the profession to talk about it, but I don't have to be from the profession, because I'm the mother of three kids. It is quite certain that, at all times, the control of a pregnant woman, and even the coming of birth itself, rarely anyone, almost anyone asks about a partner, a wife, a father, or whatever. So, the explanation given by the Committee is quite correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20632	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20633	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, risking that, according to my esteemed colleague, I get criticism from the Women's Parliamentary Network, I will try to support the discussion of distinguished counterpart Mijatovic and counterpart Jankovic in a few minutes. This amendment, which we have submitted, refers to paragraph 8, which says in the original text - a doctor as a responsible person is not obliged to inform a pregnant woman's partner about the result of genetic testing, unless it does so within the framework of genetic counseling which both partners have approached. The provisions of this article shall also apply to the procedures of pre-impletional genetic diagnostics. Col. Milisavljevic gave a second version of the part of this member of the law, but there is no obligation to inform the male partner. A few of us shared on the Committee, to put it this way, the view that this is necessary, especially in the case of genetic research and possible genetic error in the fruit. The obligation, in my opinion, is for a male parent to be informed of the possible consequences of such pregnancy if the mother decides to carry it out to the end. Why do I say that? In this law, Article 34 states – the doctor is responsible for the harm of the parents of children who were born genetically damaged by the violation of their right to be informed of the child’s health before birth, so that the informed give their consent for further treatment, etc. Trying to make this law, as we talked about when we spoke in principle that we all wanted to make a good law, I wanted to, and that's where I'd ask all my fellow lawyers to get involved, because this is more of a legal issue, to get involved in the discussion. Because of this article 34, several of us on the Committee were, and also based on our thinking, strong for this amendment, i.e. We were in favor of the obligation to inform the male parent of the future child. Normally, what my colleague Milisavljevic was saying, in case he was absent, that he was not in the country, that in the North Pole, wherever he is, it should be determined in the patient records, because that's how we protect our future colleague, i.e. A colleague who will lead such a pregnancy, who can be sanctioned and sued on the basis of Article 34. Here we give the possibility that he is not necessarily informed, and in Article 34, we give both father and mother the right to sue the rights if they have not been informed. Let the few lawyers get involved, so that we can decide that this member is to the general satisfaction of a high-quality vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20634	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20635	Thank you. I am using the time of the mandated representatives of the DS parliamentary group, because I think two completely different things have been mixed on this amendment. There's one thing that's right about a patient in a case that's involved in a genetic examination, and a woman is pregnant. They're completely different from each other's rights and obligations to men and women who want to or don't want to, know or not know each other, whether they agree or not to raise that child together. That's two different things. Calling for the doctor's obligation is once again a message that we've had the chance to hear whenever we talk about health care. As much as I respect and greatly appreciate the work of a doctor, but the center of every health law and health center must be a patient, not a doctor. It intends to introduce a commitment here to inform and someone who is considered a biological parent is nothing more than mixing two completely different positions, in which a woman is a patient and in which she is a partner, if she has one at all, when it comes to the birth of a child. Especially mixing it with the doctor's obligation to inform his parents. If he has already informed his mother, if the mother wants a genetic examination, then this member, as the proposaler adopted by the Committee, is quite enough. If the mother doesn't want a genetic examination, then there's nothing to notify her, nor can she call him to account after, because he doesn't want any genetic interrogation. I don't consider pregnant patients, but I do know that it's normal for a woman who has a risk of pregnancy or a pregnancy who has a risk of genetic disorders to be considered a patient. I think pregnancy is a state of health. There's no better condition than being pregnant. It's my personal, life-giving attitude of value, whatever you want. But I also respect the fact that there are situations where pregnancy is considered risky. I ask all my colleagues not to mix two things that are not to be mixed here. These are patient rights and the resulting rights stemming from counseling. Because then I can answer the question - why are we not for every kind of thing that we think is an obligation for the doctor to inform the husband, son, next of kin? Why do we think that this is an exception where you have to inform, or make a commitment to a doctor to inform a partner, whether or not this partner exists, whether it's an out-of-body fertilisation, whether it's a conception that a woman doesn't want that partner, whether she knows who that partner is or not? Why is it necessary to ask an additional question that you do not question whether we want to respect women's and human rights, but that you are making it difficult for a doctor? If one of the parents is already in the genetic phase, if you get into a situation where a member of 34 means that the mother knows, or the father knows, and what if the mother doesn't? What does that mean? That you could tell your father, and then your mother could sue? We mix two things out of our stereotypes and prejudice about how we look at a woman who's pregnant. She's a healthy person, she doesn't have a healthier person. If she's being watched in patient status, then she has her rights as a patient and it would be good to accept the Committee's amendment. Since it has been mentioned that this would stem from the criticism of the Women's Parliamentary Network, I can only support my colleague Jasmina Obradovic and express my satisfaction with what the Women's Parliamentary Network would criticise or not. But, knowing all of us 84, you don't have to suspect what we would criticise or not, we're going to make that very clear. This amendment is neither the result nor the subject of our criticism, nor is it our will to address any fellow Members with reversing criticism. This is simply one situation that will always be repeated when it comes to women's human rights of women who are giving birth. This topic has no foothold in medicine, it has a foothold in the social bases of our tradition. Since we have already accepted this law with value as a law on human rights, then I ask you to accept the solution that the compromise promoter has found with the Committee, because it satisfies the extent to which we all have a focus on what women's rights are when it comes to the genetic examination process or when it comes to healthy pregnancy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20636	Dear MPs, you have received the resignation of MP Vladeta Kostic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation has led to the case referred to in Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with this, and pursuant to Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs, finds that the term of office, before the time at which it was elected, ceases to be the day of his resignation, to the People's MP Vladeta Kostic. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20637	Thank you. My distinguished counterpart, Comic, defended an existing solution and amendment that tried to compromise this issue. However, most of the argument went in favour of this proposed amendment. Namely, I hope that Col. Komic, and all those involved in this debate agree that genetic material being examined is common genetic material both women and men. On the other hand, if we start with the definition of marriage, marriage is a community of women and men, if we're talking about a child to be born out of marriage, it's a child and a woman and a man, even if it's not a child from a marriage, it's always a child who has two parents. It is possible that some of the parents are unknown, i.e. that in this case the father of the child is unknown, and that is what my colleague, Milisavljevic, spoke of rightly. This in legal practice and legal theory and normisation is not unknown that the father of the child is unknown and is not controversial. In this case, no one can challenge that norm. However, we are talking about a regular situation when a child’s father is also known when parents want to have offspring, and the desire to have offspring means that they decide together about that offspring. Even in this case, this amendment did not go to decide whether a woman would have a child, to make a man, or the father of that child, but only to be informed of a genetic study. This isn't about deciding if a woman is going to have a child born. In this sense, this issue remains questionable. When we wrote this amendment, perhaps I should make an additional argument, I consulted with colleagues who teach family law. So I wasn't sure I was right enough. So I consulted with colleagues who teach family law and what we wrote was not at all controversial, we even got help from them to write this amendment. So I'm afraid that this is not about a misunderstanding between the Women's Parliamentary Group and the Committee's colleagues who have advocated accepting this amendment, but simply a lack of understanding of the very matter that we have been dealing with here. We simply wanted to protect a child who would be born of possible legal consequences of the fact that the father of a child was not familiar with genetic studies and the results of these genetic studies, not to mention all other implications of growth and the consequences of the child's father being meant to support the child. So I ask you once again to consider accepting this amendment. Of course, it won't affect our support for this law. We have also shown as a parliamentary group that we have really joined all the members of this law very thoroughly. We thank the promoter for accepting a significant number of amendments. In the end, I will no longer report on this amendment, I believe that the adoption of this law, first of all, is the result of the great support of citizens, the public opinion they wanted one law to be passed and that they have helped the proponent who, with his perseverance, of course, and the tenacity of the parents of little Zoya, has been passed. So I'm not going to take as a bad proposer unless he accepts this amendment, counting on him to take care of the work of ethical issues, but I think that in that part of the legal issue, he's not going to be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20638	Thank you. The word is Dr. Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20639	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to be, so I'm going to say why, I didn't mean anything by it when I mentioned the Women's Parliamentary Network, if in any way the distinguished colleagues might have found themselves hit, I apologize, but I didn't mean anything by it, I just thought about protecting women's rights, so I said that. So I'd like to ask my dear colleagues once more to accept my apology. But it's about one other thing. I would not like to elaborate for long, Mr. Veselinovic said a lot, we give exclusiveness, Mrs. Komic elaborated it, however, we give absolute exclusiveity to the woman. We rule out a man as part of a family. Mr. Milisavljevic says – what if he's in Australia, Alaska, or I don't know where we're not able to inform him. It's not about that at all. It's a replacement of thesis. It's not an obligation for a doctor to inform in that case if he's not a partner out there, it doesn't matter where, so he's not able to be present, but if a partner is present, if he's there, if he and his wife came in for a genetic examination, then the doctor would be obliged to report the result. That's one thing. Second, what are we talking about? About the fact that we can get into a situation where a man, or a partner, is being deceived in a certain way, means that a woman participates with a doctor in a partner’s fraud. Because if the partner is present and if you don't inform him of a genetic study, he won't know if we came to the conclusion during the genetic study and the child is born to someone, any genetic disease, malformation, he'll be surprised at birth, he's absolutely uninformed about it. We have a duty to inform him of the result of the interrogation if he is present. That's what it's all about, not looking in Alaska or not knowing where, if he's gone. In any case, if the partner does not participate, he is not deceived and simply does not know what it is and what the result of the genetic examination is. That's what I've been talking about, and that's why we came to a possible conflict of opinion on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20640	The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20641	Thank you. It's still a misunderstanding. I'm going through a cartoon maybe a strong example of what a misunderstanding is. The amendment in the original text that was submitted in comparison with the amendment proposed by the Committee and which I support would consistently imply that any woman who comes to the doctor is required to determine paternity. That doesn't occur to you to determine who the father is. If a woman is in a married, out-of-marriage relationship, you mean it, until there's a paternity test. With what right would you ask a pregnant woman who comes to your pregnancy, you say, "Well, let us determine who the father is, and let us keep working." It is a cartoon, on purpose, so that I can try to explain to you that the amendment that the Committee has accepted is appropriate and that, if it is of course, a partner will be consulted and of course participate if he participates in a genetic study. But the amendment and the discussion isn't about it at all. Like not knowing the father of a child by the nature of things. If you want a cartoon example again. Children become to have a father when he legally recognizes them, or children don't have a father if someone raises the question of determining paternity. And his mother, his mother. I'm asking you to look at that angle once, from our women's shoes. We, without men, can't do anything and the dialogue between us is necessary and we won't, even if we could, why would we. But there are female rights as a patient or as a person who in this case addresses for advice, for diagnosis and for everything she needs. Don't make a medical commitment that he has to inform his father, there's even been a diagnosis that he'll be deceived. How do you know that gynecologists, women who led a pregnancy, didn't cheat on you about who the father of a child is? What makes you think you know that? Because you mean a stereotype, that a marriage or an out-of-marriage relationship is such that it guarantees the exchange of genetic materials between men and women in that relationship? Probably in the largest number of cases, but I wouldn't commit a doctor to such a harsh way, and in these sharp words, there's actually a part that's not at all the subject of this law regarding the patient's and the doctor's relationship, and that together we support the amendment that the board has submitted because he says in a compromise that if a father participates in a genetic study, of course, he advises, that's understood. Don't ask for anything more and nothing less than what's really possible to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20642	Thank you. Dr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20643	I thank you. Here I am, like my colleague Janko Veselinovic, to report this time under this amendment, but I don't think we understand anything. Or, I don't understand much. I just want to remind the MPs, we're talking about the law on the prevention and diagnostics of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases. These tests and these tests aren't done all the time. They are done when a doctor, a gynecologist, a suspect, or whoever is leading that pregnancy, suspects that there is a possibility that there is an inheritance in the family, because of the patient and his illnesses themselves, that there is a possibility of damage to the foetus. I totally understand that a woman has discretionary rights, but I still can't agree with people, so this is the country of Serbia, here the extramarital communities are very rare. We are now, perhaps, at least in my part of Serbia, quite rarely. What we insisted, me and my colleague Janko Veselinović, is that only a man, i.e. A marriage mate or a biological father, or whatever, has the right to know the result of genetic testing, it's not done every day. It's not every pregnancy, it's done when it's suspected that a damaged foetus may be born, with a genetic error. We want both a mate or a biological father, if he is not a mate, to know what the fruit of that pregnancy will be. To be familiar and to agree with everything, both positive and negative, if the mother decides to bring the pregnancy to an end. So that was our idea, and that's why we asked for your support here in the tide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20644	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Health and Family. The Proposer accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Health and Family, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. That the line wants a word? Dr. Blagoje Bradic. You want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20645	Sorry, mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20646	The Government has submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Dr. Dusan Mlisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20647	Just one comment. That this amendment was not accepted, because we did not want to limit it, it should not be limited to the diseases of the Register. Even though the Register itself, there are currently no rare diseases, so this amendment is not accepted and it is not good even when you have a national rare disease register, some diseases are detected in some years that come by developing technology and medicine, so that is the only reason, otherwise this amendment is not bad, but it is unnecessary to limit to some diseases and to call on the national register, since there is no national register. So that amendment wouldn't be in line, because legally we still don't have a national register for rare diseases.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20648	Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Glava VIII, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. That the line wants a word? The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20649	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, article 32 speaks of responsibility for the damage diagnosed by the patient. His first point of view says that a doctor, or another healthcare professional, is responsible for damages if he acts against the applicable rules of medical profession or against the rules of law of the prescribed due diligence, resulting in damage to the body, health, or life of the patient. Another point that says – The basic responsibility of the doctor lies in neglecting the medical standard, because it has not acted with professional and carefulness at all, and not in the diagnosis as a court of values and the result of such treatment which can therefore be incorrect, incomplete, missed or delayed, which is appreciated in any particular case. We have suggested that attitude 2 be changed and that it be read - responsibility for damages under Article 1 is determined under the general rules of responsibility for damages. And attitude 3 is changed and said - for the damages of Article 1, according to the rules of objective responsibility of a health care institution in which a doctor, or another healthcare professional, is acting. We have given the reason that the solution in the bill is not well formulated when it comes to the civil liability of doctors for damages, and the amendment corrects this. The major failure, in our opinion of the promoter, which is not intended to be the responsibility of the health institution for damages is objective responsibility, and we have proposed this by amendment. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20650	Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20651	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find it a bit reasonable to suggest Mr. Bradic. I would be willing to vote for him in particular, because the amendment promoter takes care of the damage the patient can suffer by health, body, etc. If I understood correctly, Mr. Bradich. With that in mind, since I have experience from Vojvodina, where thousands of people in Sremska Kamenica are waiting for radiation because there is only one machine, one link. So the damage to the health and life of those patients is immeasurable. Powerful money was beaten at the Institute of Oncology, instead of ten million, the upgrade cost 20 million, and there is only one device that radiates patients. The waiting order is three months, and it's waiting for about a thousand patients. It is no doubt that in those three months, if Mr. Bradic agrees, there will be a fatal outcome and damage to the body and health of people at the Institute of Oncology in Sremska Kamenica. So, for this reason, I understand this amendment, but I will hesitate until the last moment whether I vote for it, and I ask Mr Bradic to tell me if what happens at the Institute of Oncology, regardless of the cancer is no longer a rare disease, does it directly have an impact on the health and lives of people and who will answer for it if we know that there is a godfather of the party of the former regime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20652	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20653	Dear Chairman, we're getting a little bit out of the subject of this law. However, the topic is really important and I don't mind that it is open, and it concerns the fact that we have inaccessibility, there is also the health minister of all Serbian citizens, the possibility of being treated when they need it most. We have a problem, Your Honor, you're here as an amendment promoter, but I'd like to ask you to comment, this is a very important topic. We touched her.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20654	I had to comment on an amendment that I have a completely different opinion of than you do, but I can't answer it. I apologize again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20655	Thank you. So, we have cases of those who are familiar with me are children's hospitals, or the Institute of Children and Youth in Novi Sad, who for a year and a half can't get a new apparatus, can't safely diagnose children, because the public procurement process takes so long that now in this institute, the entire Vojvodina is directed at this institute, the children are on trial, on machines that are harmful to their health, and the staff that is working on these machines, so to speak, has also compromised health due to it. On the other hand, the mention of the Kamenica Institute has also been unable to obtain certain appliances for a year and a half...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20656	Just to ask Mark Djurisic to log out of the system so you can keep talking. Since you've wasted your time, since it's a proper debate, there's no reason. Here you go. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I did not press at all.) All right, I get it, I'm sorry. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20657	Dear Ministers, therefore, because of the procurement procedure, and we were in the process when the Public Procurement Act was passed, we spoke, we pointed out, we persuaded the Minister in charge that it would create a major stalemate and we especially pointed out health institutions. So you have a public procurement procedure for very important machines for health, children, youth, citizens of Serbia that last for a year, two days because the public procurement process is not working. Please Minister, is there any possibility that this needs to be resolved urgently, that these procedures in the Public Procurement Commission are unblocked? The Public Procurement Commission shall act on the procurement of X-ray machines, other health apparatus such as the procurement of cement, paint or other operations. That's not right. The law is otherwise not good, but Serbia's health care is threatened by the fact that the Public Procurement Act is not working. We've opened the question here now at the Institute in Kamenica. I'm telling you, it's the same condition at the Institute for the Protection of Children and Youths of Vojvodina in Novi Sad. It's the same in some other health care facilities you know about. Is there anything you can do, can you reach some conclusion in the Government, a recommendation to committees that they act urgently? Of course, there are also professional bidders whose sole goal is to start public procurement procedures to eventually get jobs in these procedures in some of the following steps.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20658	The Minister can only answer you if we agree and let him get the word, because he's not an applicant for the amendment, he's not a law enforcement officer. You asked him a question. Now, if the MPs approve, we'll give him our word. If he can, but if he isn't looking for any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, he's being asked questions, and he can't answer now, he's physically present. Now, whatever you want, yeah. Here you go, Minister. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20659	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, it is a very serious problem that we have already set out to solve because it is extremely unacceptable for both our citizens and our children and our patients to have money provided, that the state has provided money, but that now because of some bureaucracy, we cannot implement this procurement, or we cannot buy what is necessary and that people are diagnosed and treated. You cited some of the examples that last a year, a year and a half. Think about, or imagine how many children there are, how many people could already be diagnosed, how much cured, and how few waiting lists that we all have problems with. One more thing doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense that these tenders can be complained about by those people who have nothing to do with the object in that tender. So they can deal with quite a few ten things, they can deal with air conditioning or something like that, whatever they do, but they can file a complaint. The process is stalled automatically when they file a complaint. Now we're in one serious problem. So all of us who look at this and who we know, we realize that this thing isn't like any other thing, buying flowers, getting sand, getting anything else that isn't of extreme importance and time, and anyway, for our citizens, and especially for the sick.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20660	Minister's time, all minutes only.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20661	So if we did anything now to interfere until we changed that part of the law, to interfere there and say, "No, we interrupt, they got, they don't complain anymore; we have half of us who complain that we have interfered." We have to change the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20662	Time's up. Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20663	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, regardless of the cancer is not a rare disease, doing the full truth, as a member of the Health Fund, as a farmer in a place that is legally provided for a farmer I was recently appointed. I'm not a doctor, because it's forbidden to be doctors there. We represent the insurance company. Following the insurance money being spent, I am also obliged to say that the tender in Sremska Kamenica recently, Mr. Minister, fell because the other bidder complained because his offer for them was a better machine between 6 and 7 million for two machines, a so-called link, for two machines was between 6 and 7 million euros, and those who decided there accepted a worse offer of 10m euros, and on the appeal of those who, according to them, had a better machine for radiation, a better link, on their appeal the tender fell. Thanks to this, those who carried him out put about 1,000 people in danger of health, and that is what I was talking about to Mr. Bradic. So the tender was shot down because the second bidder, who was cheaper for three million euros, complained about irregularities in the tender. Thanks to my choice to keep an eye on the money provided for farmers in the Fund, and I am accused in one magazine that I am not a doctor, which is forbidden to be on the Management Board, is that, thanks to this attention, Mr Bradic, the people who suggested me in front of the Farmers' Association, a few, I was able to find out the following – that the money intended for the treatment and procurement of these appliances was not in the tender, because the offer of three million euros was accepted more than the other bidder, "Electric", complainedd and brought down the tender. With this in mind, there is an important threat to the health of people who will wait for three months for radiation, and there are almost 1,000 of them, and I am now asking all of us, especially doctors, how many will die because of their timely lack of radiation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20664	The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20665	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, in the last 15 minutes we left and went off the subject of Zoe's law and we heard some things. I, as a professor, have to educate in every place in terms of medical treatment or any medical term, so when someone says that cancer is not a rare disease, I'm going to have to tell you, colleague Risticevic, that cancer can be a rare disease, especially if it comes to a small child. There are a number of cancers that are rare, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20666	Did you ask for a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20667	No, I'm going back to Article 32. I would like to say to you that the provision of this article is better than the proposed amendment than a group of SDS MPs, because it is more and better balanced to compensate for damages and satisfys the interests of damaged children and parents and does not double the possibility of compensation for damages, so, given this argument, I could not accept as a law holder, although I had a good will and desire, even though the Committee on Health and Family had a good will and a desire to accept all good examples and objections, so this is an explanation for not accepting amendments to Article 32.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20668	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20669	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, we have given two amendments that are related to the members of 33rd and 34th and practically our proposal we have tried to bring them together and introduce one newspaper, which is that, apart from the doctors, a health care facility might be appropriate. This is not accepted, as our idea is not accepted that through these two amendments, i.e. the new article 33, and the practical erasure of Article 34, the right to both parents and children can seek compensation both material and immaterial damages. A difference has been made that we did not understand best why for a child, because a child can only seek compensation for material damage, and parents are only immaterial damages, and we are not sure that a good solution unless our amendment is accepted and the bill remains a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20670	Thank you. The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20671	We also considered Article 3 as a proposal and as a member of the Committee on Health and Family and we discussed it on the very Committee on Health and Family and I can say that we have included some of your proposals in the very text of the amendment to Article 33(1), which the Committee on Health and Family and agreed on. He predicts that if a child is born with a genetic condition or an anomaly, which makes him a disabled person, either seriously or permanently incapacitating him or giving him a poor life forecast, without having previously been medically identified, or diagnosed during embryonic or foetal development, a doctor who has acted against the applicable standard of medical profession or has failed to comply with the medical protocol and has acted against the legal standard of due diligence in the performance of professional activity shall answer to the child for the resulting damage. This amendment carries out the terminology of the proposed solution of the members of the law and your solution and your proposed solution to this member of the law is good, but we have found a compromise on a common amendment to this member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20672	Thank you, Dr. Milisavljevic. The 33rd Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Health and Family. The promoter accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Health and Family Committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20673	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People, Article 35 speaks as follows. It says that the responsibility of a doctor, or other health care professional for damage is excluded when there is a technical error in the laboratory's very findings, when there is a case in terms of civil law and when one or both parents knew of the risk that the child would be born in an incapacitated disease or genetically conditioned anomaly and they agreed to it. We have suggested that this member be deleted, with an explanation that the questions that the applicant has regulated this member are already regulated by the Law on Bond Relations, and that there is no need for such solutions to appear here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20674	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The 36th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradić, submitted to the title above the 37th and article in the same text. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 40 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted to the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Chairman, no matter what campaign is being campaigned against me, as signator of the bill, I don't object to colleagues who didn't sign this bill, who were very loud yesterday, and today they're not even there to vote. So, I'm glad we're going to pass this law. I am particularly pleased that this amendment has been adopted. We finally know who exercises jurisdiction over the implementation of this law, that we know who will be responsible if it is not applied. So, Mr. Minister, your responsibility will be complete. And I must commend you. Before you and before 2012, there was no supervision, there was no law, there was no fund, and already there was, there was no item in the Republic Health Insurance Fund for rare diseases. Now he's got it all. No matter what was written about you, you deserve special gratitude because, not waiting for this law to come into force, the government was monitoring in a certain way because it had a fund from which patients with rare diseases could already be treated. I also thank those who did not pass the law while they were in power. They have my gratitude, no matter what they set it off as an opposition. No matter what campaign was conducted in part, and this law was not meant to be the subject of the campaign, I thank all those who participated in it, regardless of the undeserved dirty campaign against me in this regard. Yesterday it was published, when this very important law was on the agenda, a very important law, with a very sensitive theme, this photo was published in a magazine. Apparently, it was created yesterday. Everyone behind me claims it didn't come yesterday. There are people here who are in maternity care. Mr. Feman wasn't in the session, and the photo says he was in the session yesterday. I am very unhappy that during the adoption of this law, money for rare diseases was kept in one magazine, which in 2012 was spent on rare diseases rather than on spending from the Clinical Hospital Center for the Treatment of Rare Diseases, assigned to this magazine, and most likely rare diseases were treated by the fact that the newspaper was put under the head. No matter what they run this campaign, I want to thank the drivers of this law, no matter when they file it. I want to thank the minister for his quick reaction and the unexpected law allowed the existing fund to find treatment items, therefore, that fund that exists in the Ministry. Also, I want to thank the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which has allowed rare diseases to stand among the items. I want to thank everyone. I don't blame those who didn't sign the law. I don't blame those who were the loudest yesterday, and they won't vote for the law. I want to be different from those who, leading the campaign against not only me, but the ruling majority, wanted to make us some kind of monster, primarily on social networks. So we are neither monsters nor political opponents to those who want good children. We don't want to be divided by this law on any basis. I thank the Ministry for overseeing the implementation of this law. Once again, I underline that the minister is the most responsible for the implementation of this law, given that in medicine we have various things going on, let's say in Vrbas for public procurement, a table for the family instead of 7,000 euros is paid by 28,000 euros. Not wanting this to happen with this kind of rare disease, I would like to say to the Minister that, in the future, he is responsible for the implementation of this law and that there are no excuses in the future if there are irregularities happening every day, especially in the territory of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20676	The word has a folk MP, Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20677	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I always pay great attention to and pay attention to the facts that Mr. Marijan Risticevic is talking about, but this time I would have to fill him in a little bit and perhaps some facts to clarify. There has been an interest in rare diseases since 2009. Of course, the way to this law has been quite difficult and, of course, the government has made an extraordinary contribution to the extraordinary sensitivity of highly sensitive matter that we finally have the text of a law that truly deserves all MPs in the voting day to be in favour of this law. But I have to say, it's not true that the previous government didn't do anything. For the first time in the budget, the 2013 item for rare diseases existed, and in 2014 it was slightly larger. What deserves special attention, this meeting of the Ministry, and now it's a humanitarian fund, which, with a pretty large amount of money, gave safety to children who are suffering from rare diseases, and that's something that earned the addition of all the data you've provided, Mr. Risticevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-23-0.u20678	The 44th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The proposer and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malovic, Aleksandar Senic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 44a be added after article 44a. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on the single agenda item of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Friday 23 January 2015, starting at 1800 hours, as the day for voting on the agenda of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 150 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. I put to the vote the draft law on the prevention and diagnosis of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I remind you that the components of the Bill proposal have become amendments: to Article 3, to the title above Articles 4 and 4, to Articles 5, 6, 10 and 12, to the title above Articles 13 and 13, to Article 15, to the amendment to which Articles 16, 18, 25 and 27, to Articles 20 and 22, to the title above Articles 23 and 23, and to Articles 24, 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34, 36, 39, 40, 41, 43 and 44, submitted by the Government; to the title above the Articles 37 and 37, which were submitted by the Government in the same text and jointly by Members Marko Djurić, Prof. Dr Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Academy member of the same government and members of the same text, Goran Bogdanović, Snežana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dražendar Srevinović and Dra Milić; to Articles 33, 18 and Mra Mra Mra Mražnović, 22, 22, 22, 22, 22 and the members of the members of the members of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Croatian, 22, Mr of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 170 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 170 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 170 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blaža Bradic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 44a be added after the article. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting the draft law on the prevention and diagnostics of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly adopted the bill on the prevention and diagnosis of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the third extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
