ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27028	Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 118 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that a quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists when the agenda is established, if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 135 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27029	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at a session held on 4 June 2013, concluded that Article 1 fully accepts the report from a meeting between representatives of the government's co-ordination body for the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedje and representatives of the political parties of Albanians from the Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja municipalities, which is an integral part of this conclusion. The Government is in charge of the position of the 2nd conclusion, so that 10 ministries within the Government are listed to take all measures from their responsibilities in the relationship, according to the implementation of the activities referred to in Article 1 of the report of this conclusion, and to provide all necessary assistance and support to the coordination body in the implementation of the activities listed in the report referred to in point 1 of this conclusion. Just for the sake of closer notification of this assembly, and also to the general public, I will mention only some of the topics contained in the co-ordination report, which the government adopted in that conclusion. An increase in the number of Albanians in state institutions at local and regional level, including local and border police, immovable property cadasar, public income administration, judiciary, judicial institutions, Elektro-distribution, PTT and other public institutions. Economic recovery, with stimulating measures for foreign and domestic investors, measures for the official use of Albanian language and letters in state institutions, the reorganisation of the judiciary, recognition of diplomats from Kosovo, resolving the problem by obtaining textbooks. These are just some of the 42 questions, grouped in a so-called seven-point plan. Among them, to mention, it is also about the need to reduce tensions by stopping the use of terrorist terms, when it comes to Albanians, as well as about resolving the problem by finding an adequate location for monuments in Pesevo, Lucan and Bujanovac, which was scheduled for July 2013. Since none of these issues have been resolved so far, even that famous maternity home in Presevo, my question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia reads: "Why is the achievement of the collective rights of Albanians linked to their number in general, using incomplete census data from 2012 and whether, or when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia launch an initiative to realise its conclusion 05 No 06-4185/2013-4 of 4 June 2013? “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27030	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aida Ćorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27031	I thank the chairman, my esteemed colleague Dr Dusan Milisavljevic and I started one last week, as I would say, tour of municipalities and cities in Serbia. The idea is to go around those municipalities and cities that don't have representatives in this high house and talk to local administration representatives there, talk to citizens, talk to the representatives of institutions and hear what these burning problems are and be, say the mouth and eyes of those people. We started with the Shadow, we were last week, we had a chance to talk to the representatives of the local administration in Sjenica, go to the health center, see the milk and milk product control center, and here's some of the questions we got there today on the ground, we want to direct. What is the main problem of Sjenica, is that Sjenica is divided into two districts, in Raška and Zlatibor County, and in part even in Moravička and that for different ingenuities it must ask one, second or third center. This is the most visible, right at the House of Health, and that is the question that my colleague Milisavljevic and I want to ask the Ministry of Health. So, the question is, is it possible to separate emergency care from the House of Health, the House of Health is under the supervision of the Health Center of Užica and practically up to two hours is working hours at Home of Health and while after the emergency care is left practically to themselves, they have one driver and one doctor, one technician, which is definitely not enough to serve the entire municipality. I note, that the Municipality of Sjenica, the largest municipality territorially in Serbia, is that a large number of villages are far from Sjenica itself and that sometimes, especially in winter months, it takes hours to resuscitate one patient and therefore doctors and management are considered necessary to separate the emergency service from the House of Health itself. The second question, we ask the Ministry of Agriculture, and it concerns, not answering, the ban on Serbia's forest to set electricity that would supply ski-lift. A few years ago, Sjenica wanted to install a ski lift with her own resources, and such projects are very important for small places such as Sjenica. However, the "Serbishum" did not grant approval to set up electric pillars, and the municipality was forced to buy aggregates and to additionally have complications and costs for such a single project. We believe that better synchronisation of the "Serbian" and local self-government would be both necessary and that there should be more feeling for local needs for these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27032	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27033	I thank Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask the Ministry of Energy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia a question concerning the announced abolition of the public firm Elektrovojvodino. We would like to know what is the real reason for the abolition of the public firm Elektrovojvodin after 58 years and two days of the company being established by the decision of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, on June 28, 1958? We could learn from public information funds that the alleged reason for this, savings and rationalisation, but would ask the competent ministry whether such a centralisation in the field of energy is actually hiding the desire to hide irregularities and losses in business in other units within Serbia's Elektroprivreda? We ask this question knowing that Elektro Vojvodina is the most profitable company within the electricity distribution system with 2,328,393,000 profits in 2014, while at the same time, for the example of the "Electro-distribution of Belgrade", there is a loss of 3,413,754,000 dinars. Also, so-called. "distribution losses" in Elektro Vojvodina are 10% compared to "Electro-distribution of Belgrade", which is 15%, 16%, 14% and 18% in other electricity distributions. Is the real goal being rationalized or is there something else behind it? We would also like to know what the consequences of this reorganisation will have on the overall energy system in Vojvodina, since there will be a reduction in the quality of services provided to customers, that there will be a reduction in investment investments in electricity infrastructure in the territory of the AP Vojvodina? Is the government aware that there will be a reduction in payments to the AP Vojvodina budget and cities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and municipalities, too, that there will be a reduction in the number of employees and that there will be a centralised of purchases, reductions in the number and volume of employed companies in the territory of the AP Vojvodina? We would also like to know what the costs of Serbia's power plant in Belgrade are, what are the costs of their profits and how much is budgeted for consulting services in 2015, by "Electro-distribution of Serbia", and based on whose decisions are unilaterally abolished, or ceases to exist "Electro Vojvodina" as of July 1st 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27034	The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27035	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My questions will be directed to the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration. On 9 April, I received an answer to the previously raised question concerning the application of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which states that the Tax Administration is taking all necessary activities in respect of the respect and application of the legal acts adopted governing the matter in question. But in the table below, we have a table on the refund of part of the tax paid and the deduction for newly employed workers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 45. The law on contributions to compulsory social security, where we can see that the amount of the requested return is over a billion 758 million dinars, and that the amount of return is less than 343 million dinars, therefore, not even 20% of the total funds requested has been recovered. Since the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance in Article 45, point 9, provides that the refund of paid contributions shall be made in accordance with the law governing the tax procedure and the tax administration within 15 days of the date of submission of the request for reimbursement to the competent tax authority. It remains unclear how it is, for example. In July 2014, 49 million dinars were asked to return to barely 11 million dinars. So my question to the IRS and the Ministry of Finance is why it is not respecting Article 45 of point 9. a period defined by that member, when it comes to the amount, or the return of part of the tax paid and the deduction for newly employed workers in accordance with that law? From this I can conclude that the surplus in the budget, which if it exists, is fictional because in this way it is generated and created. If all we have is the situation that in this case out of 758 million dinars, the return of only 342 million dinars has been made, it is clear that the deficit has fallen in such a way that the commitments of the budget are not fulfilled and the taxpayers asking for certain funds are cut. We have the same problem, and with the VAT refund, many businessmen have come to us with a complaint that the VAT refund is not carried out within the time limit prescribed by the law, so my next question to the IRS is, why does VAT return not take place within the time limit prescribed by the VAT Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27036	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27037	Dear Vice President Arsic, the honourable MPs of the DS or former government regime in Vojvodina have been here for almost 15 years now to be completed. During the mandate, DS Vojvodina has become the last car in a poor composition since Serbia's development locomotive. Agricultural giants in northern Serbia were destroyed and destroyed thanks to DS personnel. Agriculture's on its way out. The duchess villages are shutting down, and the peasants are on their own. Such a situation is inadmissible and unsustainable. The roads of money from luxuriant circuit funds are also suspicious with a well-known destination. All this says about Bojan Pajtic, he's talking about having to leave and he's aware of it, but that's why he's dangerous to the people of Vojvodina right now. The charges of Bojan Pajtic at the expense of the government of the Republic of Serbia are in the role of preserving privileges and preserving traces of iniquities from theft and theft from the pockets of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina and Serbia. Pajtic has not yet answered the question of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina and Serbia regarding all abuses in the business of Vojvodina Development Bank, the Capital Investment Fund, the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. Dear People's MPs, Metals Bank, which later transformed into the Vojvodina Development Bank, was ordered by Bojan Pajtic and Boris Tadic during 2007 and 2008 to donate to Djordža Balasevic no less than 400,000 euros for the film "As Early Frost". The film was paid out of the pockets of citizens of the AP Vojvodina and Serbia, and Djordje Balasevic as director of film, screenwriter and composer hired literally the entire family. Jovani's daughter was entrusted with the lead role, while the second daughter, Jelena, tried as a director's assistant, and Alexander's son, also played a prominent role in the film, and wife Olivera was a producer. The film almost no one saw it, but that's why Balasevic supported Tadic and Pajtic in the election campaign. Even his daughter Jelena, believe it or not, recently became a culture minister in Pajtic's so-called "Pajtic". ‘Government in the thick cold’. Balasevic admitted to the public that the film was a family business project. Zoran Jovanovic, the man behind some of the biggest TV shows in Serbia, says, quote, that the controversial film is indeed a really bad quote. It has never been shown in cinemas, but respected citizens, MPs, are in some cultural homes and the "Naftagassa" ceremony hall. The film was funded by "Metals Bank", "DDOR Novi Sad" and the Public Enterprise "Vojvodinasum", and others. Honorable MPs, respected citizens, this is how the former regime destroyed our past. They destroyed our present, destroyed our children's future, and if they had stayed in power and on a republican level for just a year, they would have destroyed our roots. Finally, I ask a parliamentary question to the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, does he intend to ask Mr Pajtic to resign? If he does not think, honourable citizens of Vojvodina, in the next provincial elections, I suggest you politically condemn him as a national court and send him to a political past from which he will never return to the political life of the Republic of Serbia for the future of our children and the Republic of Serbia. The second question, I'm asking the D.A. - is there any element in this for prosecution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27038	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović, Dr. Milorad Mijatovic and Mirjana Dragas. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradic proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information and Media Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 April 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradic proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 April 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law supplementing the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – five abstentions – there is no vote, not 31 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda for a decision on the resolution of members of the Health Council of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 175 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the selection of members of the Health Council of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Please colleagues present in the O.R. to allow the session to take place normally. I haven't been able to hear myself since I talked in the O.R. The High Judicial Council has proposed that the draft decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office should be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 173 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – seven abstentions – there is no vote, 23 of the 177 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic or Vladimir Pavicevic want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27039	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry of Justice, on 26 September last year, gentlemen, we sent in the assembly procedure a proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education and who knows which way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we propose that this bill be placed on the agenda, because we believe that the state institutions of our Republic, and above all the National Assembly, as a central political institution in our country, should respond to serious violations of the principles of academic integrity, respected gentlemen. Here, once again here to remind the MPs and our guests from the Ministry of Justice today, that academic integrity is based on the independent work of writing and strict respect for other people's copyrights, and that the most difficult form of violations of the principle of academic integrity is plagiarism, gentlemen. Minister Verbic told us that our proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education, which implies the introduction of principles of academic integrity in the Law on Higher Education, is an illusion sale, gentlemen. That, Mr Arsic, was said of academic honesty by Minister Verbic. I believe that today, all of us here together should order Minister Verbic and all the other ministers and the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic to graduate, respected gentlemen, not to be falsified, that scientific titles must also be obtained in our country in a fair way, respected gentlemen, and thus we declare here that as a state and as one of the most important institutions in our republican system we send a message that we too want to be part of the space of higher education that already exists in Europe today and that we want to be a society of knowledge, respected gentlemen. Everyone here, I mean, we know that knowledge can't be falsified. You can see right away who knows and who doesn't know, but we need to arrange our actions like that, and in the area of higher education, that even diplomas can't be falsified and that the titles are obtained in a congratulatory manner, in accordance with the principle of academic congratulation, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27040	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 161 of the 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov, based on Article 92 of the 2nd and 4th centuries. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2014. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the people's messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27041	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this is also one law that has already been found several times before you. It is not personally clear to me why the MPs do not want to adopt it, and the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Code, which would be added to the list of articles that do not go out of date by members who are talking about child trafficking for adoption in Article 108. These are the famous cases of baby theft and I pray once more to the MPs, I don't know which time, to think before they decide not to uphold this law. As you may know, although your refusal to accept the law gives me the impression that you are not engaged in this topic, so you may not know, because the second reason could not be, on March 5th 2013, the European Court of Human Rights reached a verdict, in the case where our fellow citizen Zorica Jovanovic sued Serbia, and it recommended that Serbia adopt the necessary legislation so that these things would no longer happen or at least so that these cases would not become obsolete, which would give parents more time to report their children stolen. On 9 September 2014, the deadline expired. Serbia has not passed any legislation. Parents' associations, which deal with this problem, have directly accused Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic of obstructing the adoption of this law while he was president of the Assembly and chairman of the child's rights subcommittee. They think it's what the health minister is doing now, and he's doing it together. What's the problem, other than that these crimes are out of date, is that there is no procedure that the Ministry of Health can make with one single decision, there is no protocol of what happens to children who really die, and because of that, it's more than simple, if you have an organized network, that you're just trading children for adoption. I ask the MPs to think about why, but who knows which way, they don't vote for this law. I ask them not to take a vote exclusively when the chairman presses the bell, and that, if they have any consciousness...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27042	Time, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27043	... Which is why they were running for MPs, supporting this bill, because there's nothing wrong with it. The only intention of this criminal code... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27044	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill on freedom of fear, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 19 MPs, on 20 November 2014. Does MP Borislav Stefanovic want a word? The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27045	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, we have repeatedly tried to put on the agenda a draft law on freedom of fear. I will remind, distinguished colleagues, that this is the last law proposed by the last remaining opposition in Tito's Yugoslavia to the FNRJ Assembly in 1946. That law only has four members. We think it would be very good for the future of the Republic of Serbia, for its legal stability, for it to be good for the rule of law, for it to be good for Serbia in its European perspective, for the future to adopt one such act. This act in no way violates the current order of the Republic of Serbia. The act confirms that in Serbia today, burdened with misery, poverty, violence, asphyxiation of media and civil liberties, it is very important to pass a law on freedom of fear. This law regulates what is happening within the rule of law, and in the event that someone abuses power and position from a administrative apparatus, from a state apparatus by coercion or coercion, verbally or otherwise, forces citizens to act or refrain from doing and using their rights and freedoms. We think today's reality in the Republic of Serbia gives us the right to ask for the adoption of such an act. Serbia is today a country where political opponents, unfortunately, are being persecuted. We have physical violence. We've got the kickers. We have an end to the electoral will of the citizens. We've got pressure on the media. We have pressure on editors, journalists. We have political pressure on the editors. We have a situation where you can't hear the opposition voice, unless it's two to one or three to one on the show, and rarely every eight months on average. We have a situation where today being an opposition is too expensive, both life, human and material. We have a situation where we are inequitable. We have a situation where fear is carried out by enormous material resources given to ruling foreigners. We have a situation in Serbia where asking the question has become a crime, where disagreement through questionable form has become an unacceptable attitude that has been branded by part of the public, by the regime itself. Such a law would allow the prosecutor to react to that state authority or part of a state body, which, using its power, is pushing citizens to do something or not. Let's just say they interrupt their shift at the Colubara to watch the government's session...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27046	Time, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27047	... Or come to welcome the Prime Minister with flags. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27048	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – five abstentions – there is no vote, 156 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Comić, based on Article 92 of century 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to identify the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people, who had submitted a group of 16 MPs to the National Assembly, were killed on 9 April 2015. Does the MP Gordana Komic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27049	Thank you. I propose to the National Assembly, MPs, that they vote in favour of putting on the agenda a session of the Committee's education decisions to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people lost their lives. The text of the decision is in front of you, signed by a group of MPs, and this Committee of Auditors should be educated to determine all the facts that led to this helicopter accident. The Committee of Auditors shall consist of one MP from each parliamentary group in the National Assembly and on a proposal from the Parliament group. The Parliament Group shall determine the Members of Parliament and members of the Committee of Auditors within seven days of the date of entry into force of this Decision when the National Assembly has made a positive statement on the establishment of the Committee of Auditors. The First Session of the Survey Committee is convened by the President of the National Assembly. Until the election of the chairman of the Committee of Auditors, the oldest member present is chaired by the first session. At its first session, the Bureau shall elect its members and vice presidents. The task of the Survey Committee is to answer the following questions. Has the Minister's decision to launch a rescue mission been made in accordance with the procedure and on what grounds has such a decision been made in the first place? There's no record of that in so far-published reports. Has the order, which, on the basis of the Defence Minister's decision and on the basis of its authority, issued a competent person, contained the basics of giving orders to the members of the unit and the type of funds to be used in the action? Should the Committee find an answer to the question whether, and if so, during the course of the flight and carrying out the task, the flight plan has been changed in relation to the original text of the command? Has the helicopter landing plan been changed? Who made decisions about that change, and why? And to this question, none of the two reports available to the public gave an answer. Who is the competent person, a member of the Serbian Army or a person from the Ministry of Defence, on which basis and who, at Nikola Tesla airport, provided information on the landing of Serbia's Army helicopter at the airport on Friday 13 March 2015 at about 22:30 a.m.? Then, who is the competent person, a member of the Serbian Army or a member of the Ministry of Defence who sent false news to news agencies and media about the helicopter landing at Nikola Tesla Airport and the successful end of the rescue action? None of these questions have been answered in any of the reports published and therefore it is necessary for the National Assembly to exercise its constitutional competence, decide on this and answer all these questions. The Board of Auditors shall have the right to request from the national authorities and data organisations, to correct the notifications, and to take statements from the individuals necessary for the performance of the tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27050	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, against – six abstentions – there is no vote of 154 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act amending the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 March 2015. Does the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradic want a word? The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27051	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, this is the fourth time I have asked for the support of the congregation's majority to be included in the agenda of the point I have proposed, which is to amend the Health Insurance Act, which is Article 41, which speaks of dental health care. Namely, a valid Article 41. Health insurance laws are defined categories of insurance companies in the Republic of Serbia who have the right to repair and treat their mouths and teeth via the RFZO or to be more clear, a health book. The member of the 41st is extremely restrictive, according to the vast majority of health insurance companies in the Republic of Serbia, nearly 4.5 million RFO insurance companies do not have the right to fix, treat their mouths and teeth via the RFZO budget. The adoption of this amendment, which I propose, would correct this injustice, so that all RFZO insurance companies, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, would have the right to treat their mouths and teeth through the RFZO budget. I do not understand why the majority of the assembly has no ear for this proposal, if we have in mind that there are unallocated funds in the RFZ budget of 365,374,000 unallocated budgets in the position of dentistry, so that no new staff should be employed for an increased amount of work, nor should the funds be employed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. There are quite enough funds in the RFO budget to cover the costs of materials that will increase if you agree and support my proposal and amend Article 41. I urge you MPs, especially doctors, to support this proposal and allow the citizens of Serbia to treat their mouths and teeth at the cost of the RFO, you know what can happen as a result of not treating their mouths and teeth. It can hurt the heart, kidneys, joints, blood vessels, and especially in this situation when we have so many unemployed and so many people within the poverty line, this will mean a lot to every family in Serbia, so that the cost of the Republic Fund is treated by mouth and teeth. I once again appeal to all MPs, especially doctors, no matter what party they come from, to support this proposal of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27052	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – three abstentions – no, 159 of the total attendance of 182 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Nikolic, based on Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2nd and 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on: Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Rights of Judges within a reasonable period of time, a Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Judges, a Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and a Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Mutual Protection of Secret Information; another Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Security and Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania concerning the mutual recognition of driving licences. Does the MP Nenad Nikolic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – five abstentions – there is no vote, 31 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – seven abstentions – there is no vote, 26 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 6th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. 1st Joint Principle and Single Search on : - Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Justice within a reasonable period of time, - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Judges, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Mutual Protection of Secret Information; 2.Common Principle and Single Search on: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Security - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on Mutual Recognition of Drivers. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for the meetings of Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice, Cedomir Backova and Nela Kuburović, Assistant Minister of Justice Goran Matic, Director of the National Security and Security Council Office, Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice Department and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Justice within a reasonable period, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Judges, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Protocol No 15, amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Romanian Federation on the Mutual Protection of Secret Information. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27053	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe that you have injured Article 103(1), which says - that the MP has the right to point orally to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, does so at the session of the National Assembly which is under way, following the injury done and the position of the 3rd, which he says - the President of the National Assembly gives a word to the People's Parliament, which points to the violation of Article 1 of this Article immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker, by giving priority to the President of Parliament groups. I've been asking for a few minutes under Article 103 to give me your word that I'm talking about a breach of the Rules of Procedure, injuring Article 157, which is talking about putting together a discussion of the points that are on the agenda today. You refuse to follow the Rules of Procedure. They put a motion out of line with the Rules of Procedure. You put the vote on adoption of the agenda, you opened the session, you read the whole text, so your MPs could get out of the gym and then you just gave me your word. Please, I've answered to talk about the violation of Rule 157 again. So again, this assembly has brought together points that cannot be connected to the Rules of Procedure. The draft law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period has no bearing on it, in any way not subject to the Proposal for a Law confirming Protocol No 15 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In no way are the solutions provided for in the proposed two laws conditional upon each other and linked to them in order to be able to comply with Article 157. Rules of Procedure to meet in a united debate. If you'd like to join the debate where the same minister is in charge...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27054	Time, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27055	... amend certain laws to the Rules of Procedure. This way, stop breaking the Rules of Procedure from session to session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27056	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. Since I know you've been a folk MP for a long time, you should have learned that the chairman can't break the Rules of Procedure while he reads the agenda. Likewise, for all these years as a National MP, the chairman cannot violate Article 157 on the unification of the debate because the chairman does not make that decision but does so by the National Assembly. Are you satisfied with the answer or do you want in the voting day to declare the National Assembly? Yeah. To declare the National Assembly. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27057	Mr. Chairman, article 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure - dignity of the National Assembly. Day after day, from session to session, one parliamentary group tries to conceal their past, to harass us, and thus the National Assembly here with demands they did not meet themselves at the time when they were able to convene sessions and define the agenda. I'm surprised someone doesn't know that one of the fundamental human rights is the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and there's the connection between points 1 and 3 that are connected. But what I'm going to remind you, Mr. Chairman, is that in 2008, we had 14.5 agenda points per session of the Assembly, in 2009, 21, 2010, 23, until 2012, when in the eighth session it was combined on average 30 points of the agenda. How well they did, how well they connected. I'm sorry that Mr. Djurisic is not here, because perhaps he could answer me what does it matter that he signed the merger of the agenda points and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Broadcasting and Animal Well-being? What does radio and animal welfare have to do with the May 29th 2009 session? All this along with the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads and the ethanol Act. You know, these are very compatible things, they're very close laws, but when Mr. Djurisic put together the agenda points, he didn't mind having 64 points of the agenda, why on May 5th 2010, he brought together the 94th item of the agenda, so he joined the Beer Act together with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Agency Act. What does all this have to do with the Law of the Forests and, of course, the Law of Meteorology? The same item on the agenda was the Law establishing the European Convention on the Protection of Pets...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27058	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27059	... and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on postal services. This is how and how Mr. Marko Djurisic is, who bombes and harasses every session that he has failed to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27060	Thank you. Comrade Babiæ, I had to let my colleague Đurisic try to convince the MPs that we two hundred and something we don't know what we're doing, but apparently he didn't make it. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I ask the parliamentary groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27061	The chairman, I want to react because it is not the first time, according to article 107, to something that happened before, not Mr. Marko Djurisic, but to Mr. Borko Stefanovic. I have not responded because until the agenda is established I cannot raise the Rules of Procedure, but so that you, as chairman of the future, will pay attention. Namely, the explanation of MPs who propose certain bill proposals, whether or not the Assembly adopts them, takes a certain time and most colleagues who have done so today have done so correctly without any single objection, I have no comment on how a colleague of Pavicevic or some other MP explained the bill to us to decide whether to put it on the agenda or not. But I remind you, I don't know if you heard it because of the marbles, I know you warned the MPs in the O.R., that Mr. Borko Stefanovic told us here, compared this National Assembly and today's Serbia to 1946. I think you had to compare it. This is the year in which Yugoslavia and Serbia were occupied, in which Yugoslavia and Serbia had a power they didn't want, in which the government was undemocratic, the people didn't declare that power, it was violent, it was committing crimes, it's what our courts judge these days, at that time. So you had to... and today Serbia is democratic. So the people's will is this congregation and it can't be compared to that time. This is the people's will, whether someone liked it or not, and this folk will see the gentlemen of DS and Borko Stefanovic very quickly, in a few months' time in local elections, and especially in the province.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27062	Time, fellow Shormaz. I don't think it's an injured member of 107. In a specific way, he explained the proposal for his law, and I fully agree that citizens in the next elections will determine who is right and who is wrong. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? No, I don't. ) Does the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice, want a word? The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27063	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of the united principle debate, I would like to present to you the most important solutions containing the draft laws on the agenda, which are the draft law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period, the draft law supplementing the Law on Judges, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Mutual Protection of Secret Information. Never in Serbia, nor in any other modern state has delays and delays been tolerated in court proceedings. It has long been seen that the long term of court proceedings directly damages the exercise of justice before the court, as one of the most important institutions of the rule of law, disrupts trust in courts. Those who feel that the trial is merely a vain effort that should be avoided or passiveized and peace with injustice or justice sought outside institutions, sometimes by violence. Therefore, the timely trial is not only a legal instrument but also a social order. Despite all this, despite this awareness, it can be said that the slow judiciary today is one of the biggest problems of European states. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, adopted by the Council of Europe in 1950, and then Serbia-Montenegro ratified in December 2003, provides that, I quote: "every individual during a decision on his civil rights and obligations or on a criminal charge against him has the right to a fair and public debate within a reasonable time before an independent and impartial court educated under the law", reads Article 6(1). The convention, the end of the quote. Thus, the concept of a reasonable trial entered into European law as a standard that the Member States of the Council of Europe are constantly seeking to achieve. The notion of a reasonable trial is not defined in any international act, nor, as far as I know, in national law precisely because the trial within a reasonable period depends on a multitude of elements, some of which far exceed the influences that stem from the justice system itself or depending on the work of judges. There are a number of factors that do not suit the speed of the trial - an unstable legal order in which often laws are passed and amended, insufficient preparation for the start of application of the law, the contradiction of applicable laws, the absence of legal consciousness, that is, the low level of social discipline and organisation, the lack of interest of the highest courts to take legal views on issues that are disputed in practice and thus unify, routineise the work of courts, especially in the conditions of unstable legal order, procedural laws that favour unnecessary delays and put before the judge a cut-off for speeding up the proceedings, unsuitable regulation of the judicial system, frequent changes in the types of courts and jurisdiction of courts leading to waste of time due to the case, frequent casting of judges and courts, frequent changes in one case, are burdensome. Unjudged by things, the absence of a system that destimulates potential parties to come to court. All of these are some of the reasons that affect the absence of a trial within a reasonable period of time. Finally, it must not be abandoned both negligence and insufficient commitment of the judges to a subpoena, followed by the absence of their disciplinary and other responsibilities. It would not be good if the socio-systemic causes of the Serbian judiciary's dispute clouded the responsibility of judges, but it would be even worse if judges were found to be the only culprits for the disputed trial, because how long it takes to go after so-called. reforming the judiciary of judges to free fear of political and other extra-professional factors on their careers, their call and their lives? How long does it take for judges to adapt to new system laws that, as a rule, are getting worse than each other, hyperproduced with every change in executive power? In all this, the moratorium on the adoption of laws that apply to courts or which are directly concerned is not possible, since those laws that apply are sometimes so bad that they have to change to avoid causing social tensions. Some are so vague that it is not possible to apply a whole series of their provisions. If we limit ourselves to unsolved old cases according to the date of the initial act in which the proceedings last from five to 10 years and those older than 10 years, the situation in our courts is alarming. According to a report on the work of courts in the Republic of Serbia for the year of the old cases in which the procedure lasts between five and 10 years has a total of 713,521, while those in which the procedure takes more than 10 years have a total of 239,944 cases. All of this adds up to 953.515 old cases in our courts, slightly less than millions. It is important to point out that of this number more than 90%, i.e. 874.277 items are subject to enforcement on the basis of credible documents, while all other wastes include 79,216 items. Still, we are not in a vicious circle, nor before surrender. Dissolvement and acceleration of the work of courts has been achieved at the beginning of the application of the Law on Public Records, a great effort to maintain and improve the work of enforcement officers by intermediation, and we have before us the adoption of the law on free legal aid. Procedural and basic material laws don't often change anymore. The introduction of new European trends in our legislation has been followed by attempts to stay and often do not change laws that depend less on EU flows. In Serbia, it is the turn to protect the right of citizens and other legal entities to be tried within a reasonable period of time, but nothing is one-way between courts and citizens. The protection of citizens' rights to trial within a reasonable period must lead to faster and more effective work of courts, and yet more effective work by courts should reduce infringements of citizens' rights. That is why the bill is based in principle on a compromise between the idea to protect the right to trial as much as possible and to provide compensation to the parties as soon as possible, but also to encourage the acceleration of the work of the courts. We'll illustrate it with one example. Let's take the party that objected, because it feels that the procedure is taking too long. The President of the Court adopts the party's objection, finds that its right to trial has been injured within a reasonable period of time and sets out concrete effective procedural actions to be taken by the judge. The judge is obliged to order procedural actions in accordance with the decision of the president of the court to take action within a period that cannot be shorter than 15 days or longer than 40 days. There's an interesting situation here. It is quite clear that the party has been injured by the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and it is quite certain that the judge should take the procedural actions necessary to speed up the procedure. Lawmakers met with a dilemma - did the foreigners recognise the right to compensation from the moment she received a first-degree solution that found that her right had been violated or from the moment the judge was due to take the proceedings? The first solution undoubtedly leads to faster compensation from the party for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Its weaknesses, however, consist of the fact that by obtaining compensation, the party significantly loses further interest in speeding up the process that should be its primary interest. She's in the process and she's in the process of speeding up, not getting cash compensation. In addition, knowing that the parties are significantly less interested in speeding up the process, the judge is destabilising to act on the court's order in a timely manner and is indeed speeding up the procedure. According to this, the option under which the party would be entitled to compensation from the moment when it received a first-degree solution, which found that its right was violated, neglects the interest to speed up the procedure. Therefore, the draft law states: “The party whose objection was adopted and who did not file a complaint is entitled to a fair satisfaction when the deadline in which the judge or the public prosecutor was required to take the proceedings brought before him has expired.” The Serbian Constitution stipulates that "everyone has the right to an independent, impartial and law-based court, a fair and within a reasonable period of public debate and to decide on his rights and obligations, the basis of doubt which was the reason for the initiation of the proceedings and the charges against him" and that "everyone has the right to judicial protection if he is violated or denied any human or minority law guaranteed by the Constitution". These are, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Art. 32nd and 22nd. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which makes it clear that the courts are competent to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time within our legal system. However, as the concept of a trial is widely interpreted in the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the Ombudsman of the Convention is also widely interpreted in the draft law. Serbia's criminal justice system has been amended so much that the investigation is now being conducted by public prosecutors and the investigation is also being subject to trial. It made the law more complicated than it would be if the investigation continued to lead the courts. The exit from a complicated situation was found in conjunction with the constitutional principle of judicial protection, the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and functional independence of the organisation's independence of the public prosecutor's office. Therefore, the President of the Court, who finds that there is a breach of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. in an investigation conducted by the Public Prosecutor's Office, he provides his solution directly to the senior public prosecutor who orders, in the form of mandatory instructions, directly to the lower public prosecutor of the procedural action that he is to take and set a deadline for this. The draft law provides for two legal means whose purpose is to enable the process to be accelerated – to warn the length of the procedure, namely: appeal and appeal. The Presidents of the Court decide on their reasonableness. The protection procedure shall begin with the submission of the complaint in writing. The appeal shall be brought to the court in which the case is held, irrespective of whether or not the court has violated the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. So the judiciary is viewed as a unique system. Decisions lodged by the President of the Court of Justice and the President of the Lower Court of Appeal shall not affect the independence and independence of the judges in respect of the facts and legal matters of the case of the trial or investigation. It would be against the constitution of the declared independence of the judges. The President of the Court must only value the development of the judicial matter in time, not its functional development. Controlling the development of the procedure in time and being the core of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. The President of the Court, who adopts the objection, determines the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, states the reasons why the party's right is violated, these are irregularities committed during the course of the process itself during the time and requires the judge to take measures to effectively speed up the proceedings. In principle, the party has the right to appeal against the ruling of the President of the Court in three cases. First, when the objection has been rejected or when the President of the Court does not decide to object within two months of the receipt of the objection, i.e. it shall not decide whether or not the right to be tried within a reasonable period of time, but also when the President of the Court of Justice has adopted its objection and established a breach of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, which is a specific solution to the bill, which fully protects the party's right to an effective acceleration of the court proceedings. This latest case may occur first, under one - if the President of the Court has adopted a complaint and established a violation of the law in an investigation conducted by the Public Prosecutor, but directly the Chief Prosecutor has not adopted a mandatory instruction within eight days of receiving the President of the Court's decision; under two – if the President of the Court does not impose measures at all to effectively speed up the proceedings or order them, but they are not suitable to effectively speed up the proceedings, or if the Chief Prosecutor directly imposes measures that are not appropriate to speed up the proceedings; under three – if the President of the Court has adopted an objection and determines a breach of the right of trial within a reasonable period of time, and if the judge or the Public Prosecutor has been ordered to take effective proceedings which he does not take within the time specified by the President of the Court or directly the High Prosecutor. The case under two should prevent the failures of first-degree decisions that only formally come to the parties, while they essentially do not allow the process to be accelerated, thus transforming the party's right to "super-muse" and making the object itself ineffective. In cases of one and two, the appeal shall be declared because of the so-called follow-up. the operational measures following the determination of the infringement of the rights to be accelerated did not really follow, despite the fact that the objection was adopted. It follows that the adoption of the complaint in the context of the grounds of appeal is sufficient only to establish that the party is in violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Therefore, the objection is considered adopted even when the so-called "no" was missing. the operational part of the solution. In addition to the two legal means used to speed up the procedure, fair satisfaction of the party shall also be arranged. The parties first recognise the right to cash compensation which compensates for non-proprietary damage caused by infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. In the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, it is assumed that a lengthy procedure causes immaterial damage to foreigners because of the state of anxiety, discomfort and life in the prolonged uncertainty of the outcome of the trial. A fee for non-proprietary damages is paid by the court or the public prosecutor's office, who have violated the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. It can be replaced by the publication of a written statement by the Attorney General. The publication of a written statement by the Attorney General which is only possible if the party so agrees and gives up the request for monetary security is a special form of statistics. If there is a serious breach of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, to whether or not it is a serious injury, it shall be carried out primarily by applying the criteria set out in Article 4. The draft law, defence and court may, at its request, provide for both financial compensation and to issue and publish a written statement or judgment. This allows both types of fair satisfaction to be accumulated for serious infringements of the right of the party – disclosure of infringements of the right and of cash compensation. The amount of cash compensation is limited and ranges from 300 to 3,000 euros in dinar equivalent, on the day of payment according to the National Bank's course, according to the case. In the middle, the amount that represents the medium value of the compensation that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia bore if, according to a constitutional appeal, it meets the party and determines the cash compensation of non-proprietary damage due to violation of constitutional right of trial within a reasonable period of time. The maximum amount of 3,000 euros in dinar equivalent amounts to just over eight average monthly net earnings in the Republic of Serbia for 2014. The European Court of Human Rights, acting in the Cordino case against Italy, said on 29 March 2003 that the amount of property damage charged by national courts could be lower than the amount of compensation given by the European Court of Human Rights. Infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period can cause minor or almost no unimaginative damage. The amount of compensation directly depends on the properties and effectiveness of the domestic remedy requiring the acceleration of the procedure. The European Court of Human Rights shall take the existence and combination of two remedies, which require speeding up the judicial procedure and the one on which fines can be settled, allowing national courts to determine the amount of compensation which is lower than the European Court of Human Rights, of course, provided that the amount of compensation is not unreasonablely low. The amount of compensation for non-proprietary damage must be consistent with the legal tradition and the standard of living. The decision-making procedure must be urgent, and the verdicts must be carried out urgently. The range of 300 euros to 3,000 euros in dinar equivalent on the day of payment according to the NBS course is tied to both defence and courts. The draft law regulates the relationship between him and the provisions of Articles 8a to 8v of the Law on the Regulation of Courts. The basic rule is that the procedure for the protection of the right to trial is continued and terminated within a reasonable period of time under the Law on the Regulation of the Courts. After the expiry of the provisions of Articles 8a, 8b and 8v of the Law on the Regulation of Courts, but also after the proceedings conducted pursuant to Articles 8a to 8v of the Law on the Regulation of Courts have been terminated, this law shall apply after the expiry of their validity. In this respect, it shall apply to infringements of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time following the expiry of the provisions of Articles 8a to 8v of the Law on the Regulation of Courts, provided that the proceedings pending at the time of the proceedings for the protection of the right, but also to the proceedings pending, but that any infringement of the right to judgment has occurred within a reasonable period of time before the application of the provisions of Articles 8a to 8v of the Law on the regulation of the courts, provided that the existence of the infringement has not been resolved by the Constitutional Court in the proceedings under the constitutional appeal. Persons who have filed a complaint to the European Court of Human Rights for which no decision on acceptability or foundation has yet been taken shall be given the possibility to settle before the Attorney General and in the event of failure to try to settle or absent the party's will to try to settle the course of the suit under this law. This should be an effective way to resolve the demands before the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, rather than before the European Court of Human Rights. Of course, if the European Court decides to return to Serbia for satisfaction, it would first try to apply the funds set out in the bill. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms provides under the marginal heading ‘Right to Effective Legal Medicine’ as follows, quote: ‘Anyone whose rights and freedoms have been violated in this Convention shall have the right to an effective legal remedy before national authorities, regardless of whether the infringement has been committed by persons acting in their official capacity’. The European Convention then provides that the European Court of Human Rights can only be prosecuted when all legal remedies for the protection of rights in national law are exhausted. In the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the exhaustion of national remedies is only pending if the national system knows effective remedies. If there are legal means in the national system, but they are not effective, the party is not obliged to exhaust existing national remedies, but can directly address the European Court of Human Rights. Whether a remedy is effective or not, the European Court of Human Rights is worthy of both the point of view of the analysis of the provisions of national law and national practice. If the remedy is deemed effective, the European Court of Human Rights rejects the complainant's demands. The last word, therefore, is in courts and public prosecutions that should give this law practical effectiveness. Let me also make a few notes regarding the draft law supplementing the Judges' Law. The uniform judicial application of the rights and equality of parties in the court proceedings also falls under the constitutional right to a fair trial. The addition of the Law on Judges is now moving towards the security of uniform court practice and consists in predicting exceptions to the completion of the working age of the judge, and only for the Supreme Court judges. Anticipation of such an exception is justified for several reasons. First of all, it should be borne in mind that it is the highest court in the Republic of Serbia, and that one of the most significant powers of the court is to ensure the uniform judicial application of the rights and equality of parties in court proceedings. In addition, the fact is that the judges of the Supreme Cassation Court are the most professional judges, with years of working experience, both in regular court proceedings and in extraordinary legal proceedings. All of this and justifies the regulation of the possibility of increasing the age limit for the completion of the working century compared to the judges of that court. The parallel solutions they know and the legislation of other countries are different. If we look at solutions in the countries of the region, we will see that in BiH and Croatia judges retire from 70 years old, Montenegro with 67 and Macedonia for 64 years. In Italy, for example, a recently amended regulation envisioned the retirement of judges from 75 years of age and the border was lowered to 70. However, the Serbian legal tradition knows how to distinguish a category of judges in terms of retirement age, and in view of what is said, we opted for this proposal. Serbia's legal tradition rules the difference between the age conditions for retirement when it comes to the presidents of the courts or when it comes to judges of the highest court in the country. When it comes to draft legislation confirming Protocol No 15, which amends the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of June 2013, I would point out that confirming the protocol is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to come out of membership in the Council of Europe. Otherwise, the Republic of Serbia signed this protocol on 13 December 2013. The Protocol shall amend and supplement four members of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in the part of the Convention relating to the European Court of Human Rights. The aim of the protocol is to increase the efficiency of that court. The Protocol shall be complemented by Article 21. The Convention relating to conditions for the selection of judges of the European Court of Human Rights, providing that candidates for a judge must be under 65 years of life on the day of submission of requests for a parliamentary assembly. There is also a change in this supplement that provides for the erasure of Article 23(2). The Convention, which is scheduled for the judge to expire when he is 70 years of age and given that judges are elected for a period of nine years. The flow also changes Article 30. The Convention, by providing for the erasure of restrictions on the entry into jurisdiction of a large council, may only be effected if one of the parties to the dispute does not object. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the work of the European Court of Human Rights, the protocol provides for a reduction of deadlines for submitting a representation to the court by six months, as is now prescribed, to four months from the date of the lawfulness of all Member States' internal legal remedies. Furthermore, the restriction that the provision cannot be rejected unless the case has been considered with due consideration by the court of a Member State. Finally, on the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the mutual protection of classified information, I would point out that the issue of conclusion of this agreement is open to the final negotiations for the conclusion of an agreement on military co-operation, which provided for the exchange of classified information to be regulated by a special agreement. In this regard, and in order to conclude this agreement, negotiations were held after which the agreement was signed during a visit by Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin to Belgrade on 15 October 2014, along with several other agreements. In any case, it is one of the most important agreements on the exchange of classified information for the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the already confirmed agreements with the EU and NATO, given that this creates a legal framework for intensifying and improving co-operation with one of the permanent members of the UN Security Council. This agreement creates conditions of joint action against challenges, risks and threats not only to the Republic of Serbia, but also to global importance. Also, confirming this agreement creates conditions for more effective co-operation between the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation in the areas of internal affairs, security, justice, foreign affairs and defence, as well as more effective co-operation of businesses, especially in the area of the dedicated industry. Otherwise, it is a standard agreement on the exchange of classified information provided for by the competent state authorities through which the exchange will take place, sets out the appropriate classifications, regulates the transfer of classified information, the handling of classified information, the way in which the secret information contract is concluded, the conduct in the event of breach of the protection measures and other issues. For all these reasons, as I have said, the confirmation of this bilateral agreement certainly represents a significant contribution to further improving co-operation with the Russian Federation, particularly in the areas mentioned. Finally, I want to thank you for your attention and to express my hope that after the debate in the principles and details of the National Assembly, the proposed laws will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27064	I thank the Minister. I'm asking, do the officials of the committees want a word? Mr. Petrovic, are you a committee reporter or what? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27065	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, co-workers at the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will only say in two sentences or three that today the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government unanimously adopted all the draft laws that are on the agenda today and propose to the MPs that they adopt them in the day to vote. The Committee considered that these laws, in particular the Law on the Protection of Justice within a reasonable period of time, as well as the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Judges, are in accordance with the other two laws, that they are in accordance with the Constitution and with the currents and efforts of the Government of Serbia to correct what can be fixed in the Serbian judiciary and that is why we have proposed that these laws be adopted. At the same time, since I am also authorized on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, let me say a few words, if you allow me not to answer again for the word. I'll be brief and within these 20 minutes, which normally belongs to the parliamentary group, I won't use them completely, so there's no need to report twice, if possible? Thank you. The JS parliamentary group will support in the voting day all four draft laws that are on the agenda today and we particularly welcome the ministry's efforts that finally came out and came before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the proposal to protect the right to trial within a reasonable time. In his extensive presentation, Mr. Minister explained what he wanted to achieve in this bill, he listed a lot of information on what the situation is today, when it comes to the timing of the trial, or the process of various and proceedings before courts in the Republic of Serbia and this law, in fact, he wants the situation to improve as much as possible and in the fastest possible way, in accordance with the law. It is known that all parties in the process, so far, have had two ways to try to try for a trial that takes a long time, speed up, and that was a constitutional complaint and complaint about the work of certain judges and judges. No real effect has been achieved through these two legal options, and today we have before us a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. We also received data today as to how many old cases burden the Serbian judiciary, however, both I and the JS parliamentary group feel that we can't do all the blame because the trials last as long as they last to be attributed only to judges who lead the proceedings. There are also blames on other participants in the proceedings, and I would not now list which are all or who is more or less guilty, but in any case it is the fault of the parties in the proceedings, it is the fault of their representatives, the guilt is partly and artificially, it is also the fault of some fourths that I will not and cannot mention. In any case, it's all less or more to blame for some court proceedings, as we've heard for five, ten or more years. That is why today we have before the European Court of Human Rights many cases and requires that the trial be speeded up and that the case be closed in certain cases. We also had examples given by the ministry in the light of this bill, which shows that some court proceedings really take an unwarranted length of time. Therefore, the right now is given by this draft law to the Presidents of the Court, i.e. the courts, to decide by appeal by some of the parties whether or not a party's right to trial has been violated within a reasonable period of time. And that's good. So far, this was not an option, as I said, only through a constitutional appeal and a complaint resolved by the president of the court. But when we talk to Mr. Minister about old cases, we need to know, since you yourself said that over 800,000 of these old cases refer to the executions that are in the process of a few dozen years to say five, ten, and more years. However, we should also get the information, you probably have it, that in most of these over 800,000 execution cases, these are small amounts whose execution is required and they burden that number code, to say that in the ineffectiveness of the Serbian judiciary. We have many proposals for executions or executions concerning various municipal services where the figures are really negligible from a hundred, two hundred, five hundred or a thousand dinars, at least as far as my knowledge goes. It is simply not possible for some reason to execute that judgment. On the other hand, it burdens these old items and the inability to find a natural or legal person in a given, known address or because no solutions are received or because calls are not received and so on. That's why they've been putting off for years, and they just can't end certain old objects. All these pains have been inherited not since yesterday, not since the day before yesterday, they're from five, ten, and more years ago, to say so in courts. Serbia's unique one more time, I stress, welcomes the ministry's and the government's efforts to allow as much justice as possible, to come to a final solution. The bill also gave the right to the parties complaining of the slowness of certain judges from the Serbian judiciary to seek, among other things, compensation through the determination of amounts for this immaterial damage ranging from 300 to 3000 euros in dinar counter-value on the day of payment according to the NBS course. There was, I also know in the public hearing of the complaint, or objecting not to tell the complaint why it is used, why it takes the euro as a value for payment. However, I think the ministry is right when, through the amount of the euro from 300 to 3000 in dinar equivalent, it marked this possibility for the party to be protected in any way from skating, which we do not want to normally, the dinar and the jump of the euro, but still that there is some security of the party that it can, I say, charge its own damage in this way and achieve some satisfaction. All in all, I think that by adopting this law, it is likely that some of the amendments there are will be quite accepted by the Ministry all in order to improve the proposed text of the law even further and that simply all those who think that they are damaged in any way that they can in a faster, simpler way come to satisfaction, or to achieve their path towards justice. We from the JS will not stand in this way, we will support the ministry's efforts and all other participants in the series, so that simple justice in Serbia is faster, more efficient and accessible to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the second law, it is the law supplementing the Law on Judges, I think this proposed solution is good and the JS will support it, because we believe that the judges chosen to be Judges of the Cassation Court should still be allowed to work a little longer than the judges of other lower courts do. It's not some big time period, but it's only two years. It's about the most professional, experienced judges, because if they weren't the most experienced, most professional, they certainly wouldn't have been chosen to be Supreme Court judges. So this solution that's ahead of us today is good for us from JS, and we're going to support it. When it comes to these two other draft laws confirming Protocol No 15 and draft legislation on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation, the JS parliamentary group will support them in the voting day, and in this way I will conclude my discussion and another sentence that all proposed laws by JS MPs will support and welcome the justice ministry's efforts to improve the efficiency of the work of the Serbian judiciary in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27066	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27067	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us a set of laws, but of course the Law on a reasonable time for the end of the trial is the most important, most important. Of course, in my presentation, I'll look at him the most. What is important and what should be mentioned in this opening section is that the NS Parliament Club will support this law in the voting day, because I simply don't think there is a man in this room who, in the boredom of his life, in practice, has not met with a long-term trial, or at least someone from his closest environment. What's important is that we had, but I don't know how many judicial reforms, judicial reform, but unfortunately it's the data that's not encouraging. I have to thank the Honorable Minister for having the clear courage to state what the number of items we can currently say are outdated and that this particular law will apply to them. When you hear and when viewers and citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, when they hear that we have a number of cases between five and 10 years old that is over 700 thousand, or over 200 thousand cases older than 10 years old, that data is alarming, and therefore this law overnecessarily necessary. Also, what's important, is what needs to be mentioned in this introductory section, is that the previous assembly of this house, but you as a resolute minister and your ministry, in the law on the network of courts have recognized the simple importance of a trial within a reasonable period of time and of course, the importance of compensation for citizens and legal persons who are damaged, just by not having a trial within a reasonable period of time. We have so far, and you have in your opening, quite exhaustive presentation mentioned it, had so far certain mechanisms, but they have not proved enough in practice. The Serbian Constitution, Article 32(1), says everyone has the right to a fair trial, but unfortunately, the trials in our country were neither fair nor fair, but they were even less reasonable. What we had as certain possibilities are Article 170. Constitution, constitutional appeal. Of course, we had these, plays and complaints that we could write to the administration of the court, but that were often left without an answer. What we want from the NS Parliament Club is to clearly support it right now, I have to say by myself, this system law that the Ministry has courageously issued and which hopefully will contribute in the coming years that we no longer have that number of cases waiting in courts. Although I agree with a respected colleague, Petrovic, that we have a lot of items relating to municipal costs, primarily public utility companies, EPS and that if this number of old items were cleared, which is now over 700 thousand, would be significantly smaller. What, now that we're talking about the draft law on a reasonable period of time, I have to ask you, Mr. Minister, you've been very detailed, and I've already mentioned that, you've been a member of this law, but I'm interested, for example. in Article 3 of this Act, you have predicted that when the party submits, to make a complaint or appeal, that it is damaged because the court dispute lasts too long, it does not pay a court fee. You mentioned, that's quite interesting, but you mentioned, this number of cases, but because of, let me say for the citizens, we have to say who has the right under this law to seek the protection of their rights. So, of course, it's a party to the trial, it's damaged in criminal proceedings, it's a private prosecutor and a damaged private prosecutor who points out the property legal dispute, of course damaged in an out-of-pard procedure, they don't have the right of public prosecutors, although, I say, they're participants in the dispute itself, but what is to me, I think, can lead to that, if you refer the complaint to the competent court, if this is to be resolved by the President of the Court, you yourself have made it necessary to resolve it within a period of two months. If it fails to resolve it automatically, you can appeal to a higher court, which also has certain deadlines. But if we now have 700,000 cases that are older than five years, and if we imagine that, let's say, every 10, that tomorrow we call to a new law, will it come to the simple, basic courts and presidents of the courts being buried only in these cases, if I can use that term, even though you in the law predict that they can name a couple of judges who can and can do these cases for them, but we are now in the fifth month, that's the question whether and who of the president of the courts did it? What's interesting and what I also have to mention is a solution to the law itself, which is if you have a long-standing court dispute that lasts for example. For over 15 years, and if you're complaining now, you're rejected by your basic court, you're complaining to a higher court, you're also rejected, you can complain more than once in the same case, after the end, you've given it four months in the law. Now I'm asking you the same thing, Your Honor, could it have been possible to go with the proposal that when you exhausted the possibility of appeal before both the basic and the high court, you in the case at hand no longer have the right to appeal? Why does this matter? You have, and you have just talked about examples of judgments before the European Court of Human Rights, but by reading and preparing for this law, I have found a verdict that is very interesting, it is the verdict of Skipacic-Belic, against the Republic of Serbia, which the European Court has not respected but has already rejected, although it has, for example, rejected. very similar to some others, primarily for the length of the court dispute, but he found it appropriate that the parties to the proceedings were more than four times left out of the hearing by mistake and that, therefore, the length of a particular court case itself did not have to mean an automatic violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period. A few years ago, one of his colleagues already mentioned, or you, in the opening statement, that, of course, you have other factors that can affect the length of the trials. The exchange of judges, the frequent request for a judge's exception, the completely contradictory findings of the court's skills, on purpose, to say, the lack of litigation, and therefore you have the possibility of a trial taking a long time, and then I'm afraid that this law can also make a small, let's say, little crowd if you're giving someone regrets in one case, I have to say more times, because the number of cases shows that this can happen very often in practice. What I also wanted to ask, and what's interesting, I think, for the general public here, is a colleague of Petrovic, who also spoke before me, mentioned the level of punishment. Now, these heights of punishment are of course, we already mentioned it from 300 to 3,000 euros, you already mentioned that process from Italy, you mentioned the height that it was about 3,000 euros, I don't know eight average salaries at Serbia's level, but here I also have to say a little level, knowing you personally as a sincere Serbian patriot, and I'm a little bothered by that story in euros. I don't know, and I don't see the reason why in one law passed by the Serbian Parliament we have to value now and say, so I guess we all have confidence in our domestic currency and so far all the penalties we've adopted here have been in dinars and I really don't see why we can't say that's 35,000, I don't know up to 350,000 dinars. It could be accepted, we have submitted amendments in that sense, but it is important that we simply debate it a little bit. Also, what I'd like to ask, you mentioned in this opening statement to the honourable minister that we have thousands of cases right now, means that natural persons, which are before the European Court of Human Rights, precisely because of a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. What we all probably all expect, and we as MPs expect a significant number of these items to return to trial now, I would once say, of a kind of mediation, where the Attorney General will try to agree with the naturally damaged to see and that kind of compensation that will be. You have provided very nicely in the law that it can be agreed to publish an injury in the "Official Messenger" without going to monetary compensation or reparation as it already calls everything, and on the other hand, only those serious injuries to go to this so-called immaterial damage, because it is already material in some other laws, above all about bonding relations. What is important to me now, has the Ministry of Justice provided for financial resources in the budget for this year, for the possible payments of these damages by the end of the financial, or calendar year? When we look at the number of cases now and in front of international courts and, of course, before the European Court of Human Rights, we really see that it is a huge number, and if we look at the average amount of compensation it can be seen that it can still be a very important item in the budget and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. Dear Minister, I sincerely believe that this law should first and foremost lead to prevention, which is that after the adoption of this law, first and foremost, courts on the one hand should be maximumly entrenched to speed up procedures. What I also particularly want to point out as a good solution to this law is that public prosecutors who are most often in practice very often, with their work or reluctantly, lead to certain disputes taking a very long time, will now have the opportunity, meaning when the party addresses the High Court, that the President of the High Court is clearly ordering a senior prosecutor to give instructions on how the lower prosecutor will act and how and in what time period all this will be resolved, and of course does not interfere with the independence of the judge acting in the given case. Here again, we, as a Parliament club, will strongly support the adoption of this law, and I expect, in principle, that in the debate of all these issues that I mentioned in this public debate, we will rightly resolve certain amendments, and on the other hand, we will support the proposal in the law on amendments to the Law on Judges to retire from 67 years of age. Here's the Honorable Minister, honestly, I wish you every happiness in future work and I sincerely hope that the adoption of this law will really mean a valve where simply in a faster way these items will be solved and that more when we talk about reports of work and courts and judges in some subsequent years of such terrible numbers than 900 thousand cases over five years of age, we won't have any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27068	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27069	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I consider it necessary to also address some of the issues raised by fellow Members of the People's Parliament Dragan Jovanovic, which are really important for the very subject of today's debate on the proposal for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable time. So, the truth is, as I said 874 thousand, over 874 thousand old cases, objects over five years of initiality are subject matter of enforcement based on credible documents. The overwhelming majority of these cases are items in which the JKP executives are. Based on the practice so far, and I just want to point out that we have had more than half of 2014 a kind of protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period that we have defined to the three members of the Law on Regulating Courts and for the sake of scrupulousness, dissatisfaction and free to say, the non-sustainability of clear rules we have entered into the adoption of one law, but we have had one half-yearly practice in which we were able to see what one concept of protection of the right to trial looks like within a reasonable time. I also have concrete data on how legal resources were used during 2014, both in the first three months of 2015. I can tell you that, for example, for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period in 2014 a little less than three million dinars of compensation were paid to citizens. When it comes to the first three months of 2015, that figure is over 15 million. This can be justified by the fact that a large number of decisions that were prepared in 2014 were simply published in 2015, so it was transferred to this year. However, it is not to be expected that these over 800,000 enforcement cases on the basis of credible documents where executives are mostly public enterprises, that there should be complaints of violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time for several reasons. One of the main reasons is that we will treat this problem by adopting law on enforcement and security where we will consider these matters as a special problem and seek a way out of them. As counterpart Petar Petrovic said, the convincing majority of these cases again constitute cases where the subject is a claim, i.e. a credible id, where the subject of a claim is 100, 200 to 500 dinars. We have this problem of executive creditors of public enterprises in which the responsible persons with the right and no one can blame them, they don't want to give up and write off those debts for a number of reasons. I'm not going to elaborate on why and who, but look at the law of large numbers when you multiply 500 dinars by 100,000 objects, then you see what that amount is. So far, no responsibility has been taken up in the area. But what's interesting here, we even write off these 874,000 items, those remaining 79,000 cases, say in a lawsuit, in a guilty case, is still a worrying number of cases for me. If you look at, say, at appeals courts we have a 1.001 case over 10 years old, so in the second degree over 1,000 cases, in 1,000 cases, over 10 years there has been no legal executive judgment. That's a big problem. On the other hand, I have to tell you that the current application of those three members of the Court Order Act, somewhere paints us where the most citizens complained and sought the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. They were expected to be basic courts, or to complain about higher courts. More claims, i.e. complaints about the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period, were made to appeals than to several courts, suggesting that citizens were more complaining about the length of the proceedings before the higher court rather than before the basic courts. Of course, this tendency doesn't have to be something that's absolutely legal. However, only now will we have a year of some kind of protection of the right to trial within a reasonable time before regular courts, or before courts, rather than before the Constitutional Court, as it has been so far. In any case, I don't think there's so much room for some justifiable fear that now these 874,000 executive creditors rush to protect their right to trial within a reasonable time, because it's really a problem that's been emerging for years, which hasn't been solved for years. But I must tell you that when a careful annual report in the work of the courts in Serbia is looked at, there are courts in which an improved organisation of the work of the court has achieved a remarkable result. Here, I will take the opportunity to mention a court that has been known for years by one of the most messy basic courts in Serbia according to the results of the work. That's, say, the General Court in Panchev. In 2014, when it comes to handling these IV cases, the basic court in Panchev achieved the best results. They only halved the number of old cases thanks to the good and professional management of the court and the good organisation of affairs in the court itself. On the other hand, we have vessels where the maltene hasn't even changed that number of cases. When you talk to the Presidents of the Court, most of them will tell you that the minors on an annual schedule in the previous years, in a previous series of years, judges who weren't some envious experts, were assigned to executive departments, about to interfere in guilt or litigation, which gave their fatal results. You asked another question, say, why was the right to seek after four months? You made an accident. So when the President of the High Court decides in the second degree, his decision is final and there is no right to appeal. But why is it that after four months the citizen regains the right to complain about the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time? Well, because in that period there could be a violation of that right. You know, as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, deciding in the second degree, I was present and in something I can't talk about ad personam, therefore, in person, which is the conduct of the High Council as a disciplinary organ. I must tell you that we had cases of judges we discussed at the end of 2014, which had over 20, 30 cases in which they had not taken any of the only proceedings since 2008. Now someone would say -- well, you know, between 2010, so they're re-sealed and redistributed cases to judges. This is about the judge who inherited her cases, therefore, which she had before 2010. And then you realize there's something wrong with it. Imagine, six years in 20 cases you don't have a single process operation taken. A fundamental question arises – what remains of that citizen, since it is a matter of litigation, what is available to that citizen? Imagine, for six years, a judge has absolutely nothing scheduled for you, not one single hearing. The President of the Court doesn't react at all. So I'm sure he's a citizen, I guess, because look out, it's not one subject, it's twenty objects. I suppose at least some of the parties asked for a reception with the President of the Court. Such a bill makes such a citizen a little bit more protected than he used to be. And there's someone who's bound to take care of him. On the other hand, in that light of reasons that otherwise injure the right to trial within a reasonable period, and I said already in the opening statement, it is not necessary to blame it, it is not to blame itself on judges alone. In many cases, responsibility is not on them. When you have a judge whose procedural law changed twice in his essential provisions in four years, then it is not the judge's fault, even if the law came into force immediately, if it did not precede him some fundamental, good preparation for the application of that law. Someone mentioned, you know, they're making an appointment somewhere. It's the judge who handles the proceedings. If the expert is someone who stalls, the judge can punish him, the judge can replace him. On the other hand, when it comes to an appointment of proceedings, and I was once able to, say, schedule a hearing in six months from the day of inability to maintain the same, and then when, let's say, you urinate a little with the judge and tell him – don't ask for six months, it's important for me for that and that reason, the judge takes and schedules you in a month. Why didn't he make an appointment in a month? There are many problems. Far from having us through this bill when we adopt a magic wand to solve all problems. No, we create conditions here so that they can be solved in a better way. What you just said, Dragan, to create a higher level of responsibility for people who work in a court and that everyone has awareness that the money at his disposal is a court, even when he pays this compensation due to a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, that it is the money of the citizens of Serbia, that it is the money of anyone who works in Serbia, who fills the budget with their work. I'm afraid there is no such degree of responsibility. I'll give you an example. Only when it comes to the basic court in Novi Pazar in 2014, according to European Court of Human Rights decisions, a little less than 2m euros in compensation was paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, only for the New Pazar basic court. The next is the Court of First Instance in Chačka. Do you want me to tell you why? We had cases in which, for example, the decision states that the company’s bankruptcy worker, who was an executive trustee, could not be charged on the property of the company and in the light of the Strasbourg Court’s decision stands – because the bailiff did not want to go out on the ground. Now I'm not talking about these dishes I mentioned earlier. Just because it's New Market this year doesn't mean anything. Last year there was another court. But in any case, we have come to the conclusion that this worker by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg is defined by a fee which is two, three or four times greater than he would have obtained under this law. When you touched on the questions of the European Court of Human Rights and that large number of performances, I was already presenting that information. So we managed to reduce the number of performances before the European Court of Human Rights, or the number of proceedings against the Republic of Serbia, from more than 14,000 to just over 2,000 in these two years. It should be borne in mind that not all of these concepts of violation of the right to trial are subject to within a reasonable period, but the system of withdrawing these performances from Strasbourg and the possibility of a negotiating solution with the state is something applied in a number of countries, applied in Poland, applied in Turkey, has been applied in some other countries that have had a problem with a large number of performances. One question - why the euro, not the dinar? I have to tell you that, first of all, this is not the first mention of a certain monetary value in the euro, i.e. a reference in euro with the obligation of dinar equivalent, accounting based on the course of the National Bank. We already have such provisions in the Law of Prosecution. It's a simple reason. It's a more stable and sustainable category. This restriction has been reintroduced based on the discussions with the experts of the Council of Europe that we have had and working with them, I can freely say, has contributed to the better quality of this law and the comments they have made on this law are truly positive and can only serve us with honor. On the other hand, if you will, the definition of that amount is in some way done with us and done on the basis of what the European Court of Human Rights did in Strasbourg. They defined fees in euros, and we said in euros, but in dinar equivalent and it can be said that's one of the reasons. Was it possible to show that value in dinars here? I think it was possible. This is something that I see more as a kind of technical thing, and certainly my dinar is a million euros away from the euro, but unfortunately the euro is worth more than the dinar. So this also has some kind of psychological impact on the very party who has been injured by the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Thank you for your good discussion and quality questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27070	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27071	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Department of Justice, dear colleagues, we have also listened to Mr. Minister and colleagues from the ruling coalition who of course supported this text of the law and this solution, and I hope you will have understanding for a little more critical tones. As far as the law itself is concerned, I think it represents an undisputed text, not to say a nice piece of paper, and at first glance – why don't we all support it? In that sense, to be constructive, we also submit some amendments. I hope Mr. Secretary had a chance to look at them and they'll see that they're in favor of the very text of the law anyway. What is our fear and what is our thinking is – is this beautiful piece of paper really going to change something or is what often happens with Serbian laws just going to be a dead letter on paper, or is it going to be another good intention, a good intention to change something, and that it might even complicate the situation in the judiciary? What is my idea and what is my proposal is that, before the law is passed, the judicial authorities, first of all, have to deal with the application of procedural laws and, in that sense, the minister, as a minister, has no jurisdiction, but he also has as a member of the high council of the judiciary. What's this about? There are already a number of solutions in various procedural laws that would allow for more effective handling of competent courts, of course without incurring the very kind of decision that the court will make, that is to say, not to destroy itself the independence of the judiciary. Also, there are provisions that the minister spoke of, which concern the disciplinary responsibilities of the judges, because the presentation, I think, we have understood, and I will fully agree, depends greatly on the organisation of the court itself, or specifically on the President of the Court. It has already been shown throughout history, when you have a good judge, that the court is far more effective than some other courts. What is the problem with this law is that you are giving those good court presidents, who are not afraid to report colleagues who are not doing well, to initiate disciplinary proceedings, you are now giving them a terrible amount of new work, which will completely overload them and will not do what is the basic obligation of the President of the Court, which is to take care of both the legality and efficiency of the work of the courts. I would hate for this paper to end up just as one political pamphlet, where the ruling coalition will be praised – yes, we have passed the law, but the problem is unsecured. On the one hand, it sounds nice, because a small part of our citizens have contact with the court, most citizens can say – the Law on the right to trial has been passed within a reasonable time. What is the essence of the problem is exactly what I started to talk about, and that is a large number of new procedures that will arise before the courts. The law clearly states, you have stated, that there are a number of legal means to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. So there's an objection, there's a complaint, there's a request for just satisfaction, etc. In other words, not only the president of the court who has to decide on the objection is burdened, but if the party is not satisfied with the response to the complaint, there is the possibility of an appeal. As we've heard there are 80,000 items, if we ignore those related to executions, imagine now 80,000 different reports, and there will be far more, because these are just extreme situations that we've instructed, whether it's a trial of over 10 or five years. There are a large number of trials that last three, four years, where the criteria are also met to file objections, i.e. if the objection is not adopted, to be handled by appeal. I'm afraid this way, by solving it like this, by putting a full deal on the presidents of the courts, we'll only lead to further stifling of the work of the courts and your courts won't be more operational. There is another fundamental problem if we are talking about the application of this law, i.e. making a complaint or appeal. You, as a party to the proceedings, want to end the proceedings as soon as possible, but you want one more thing before that, you want to succeed in the process. The question arises, when you object against the judge, what will be the final measurement decision of the judge himself? Will the judge against whom I object say - no problem, you are not satisfied, you objected, you succeeded in the complaint, but you will lose the dispute? Will the parties, when important, be afraid of major cases, to file these objections so as not to object to the judge in question? I'm not sure that the bill promoter has taken care of all aspects of the very functionality of the law. What is the problem with the law itself, I can agree in part with the Minister and his explanation, which is a matter of time-limit, when it is considered that the right to trial is violated within a reasonable period of time. Article 4 is replaced by the following: The draft law sets out criteria for the assessment and duration of the trial within a reasonable period of time. They sound nice, they sound pretty logical. I can read: “When deciding on legal means, which is protected by law within a reasonable period, all the circumstances of the case are respected, primarily legal questions, etc., etc., etc., are respected. ” The question arises – who is it that appreciates the deadline? Why am I asking this? Various parties will see their rights to trial violated within a reasonable period of three months, six months, a year. It will lead to a large number of objections. I ask the question, although there is no such thing in practice, we are all aware that it was nevertheless necessary to limit the right to submit on a certain time limit, both in the first and second stages. I believe that this deadline would be very decent and that it would be said that the first-degree measurement decisions, for example, one year, in the second-degree two years, and that only then can they be brought to the table, so it is certain that what is the law enforcement authority, which is to raise the efficiency of the work of the judiciary itself, would be omitted. Also, in addition to these questions I hope to get an answer, there are still some questions that we can address to the amendments, but I do not understand, when it comes to the right to object and when it comes to the work of the prosecution, I am not sure that the prosecution is the place in this law, but if we consider that it is the position of the legislator, I would like to be explained, when it comes to the objection, in point 7, the party is asked to make or propose, in the complaint, information on the case of the investigation which indicates that the public prosecutor is delaying the investigation. Excuse me, how can I, as a citizen, get information on the subject of an investigation? Do I have to go to the police – I'm sorry, this killer or organized crime, whatever, wherever it is, why can't it be delivered, why can't it be brought in and go to the D.A.'s office? We know that there's a sign of confidentiality, that the prosecutor or police officer is telling you, as strangers, the damaged story from the investigation. I think it's absolutely inconceivable, inconclusive, and that's why we suggested that this point 7 be deleted, because that narrows down the right for the parties to object, and the law's intensity is that, over the time limit, you have the right to file a complaint regardless of certain data, details that they simply cannot know. As for the deadlines that you set in the law, it's the same important thing, and that's where we tabled the amendment, and I think there's a way and a reason for you to adopt it. So, the President of the Court, according to Article 7. The law is required to decide on the objection within two months of the date of receipt of the complaint. We believe that the deadline is inappropriately long and that it is more than enough for 30 days, especially if you have taken into account that he can legitimateize his affairs to colleagues. Because if it's two months to object, so he refuses to object, so you're making a complaint, we're talking about real six or seven months again, and then he decides whether or not he's expeditated the objection. So, all these deadlines are very stretching when it comes to the judiciary, because basically you don't get an objection as a party, you don't get satisfaction, until you get that complaint. Well, it travels, it's typed, it's not typed, we already know what it looks like and when it comes to written redundancies, judgments, and what's also well regulated in procedural laws, and what might be based on disciplinary responsibility to be applied successfully. As for further grudges, there are still some very significant ones, here I am also going to talk about Article 30. - the amount of cash compensation. I can understand Mr. Minister's arguments, yes, when it comes to the court's compensation in Strasbourg, that it moves between 300 euros and 3,000 euros. I agree with the proposal that the amounts be in euro, because this protects certain rights, so if there is, which no one wants, until the devaluation of the dinar, again the party will achieve a less right, a smaller amount, which could be the basis for a trial in Strasbourg, so this provision in this sense makes sense. But what happens to this fee when it comes to big-value disputes. What is crucial for our country, we have been listening to this for a long time by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, these are investments. Here, we have a specific example of "Belgrade on Water" and we have a contract signed two, three days ago. What happens if there is a hypothetical dispute between Belgrade, i.e. the Public Enterprise "Belgrade on Water" and, for example, an investor? It will certainly be the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice. We're talking about a several hundred million-euro dispute here, that I'm not politicizing and not talking about how much investment it is, I don't think it's a topic at all. A foreign investor, in this case an Arab investor, does not matter, initiates a dispute and, of course, the state, since it has no interest to lose, will not pay for the penalty, makes it difficult. Someone has invested 300m euros and you, through the right to trial within a reasonable time, damage the investor by 300 euros or 3,000, anyway. I think this fee should be better arranged. It's okay for most cases, these are new amounts, and when it comes to economic disputes that are extremely important, it's about the efficiency of working in the judiciary, the development of this country, and what's the key, if you want to have an investor in Serbia, because whoever comes to Serbia to invest or any other country, one of the things is economic interest, a profit that they can make. On the other hand, if something goes wrong and often goes wrong, within which time it will have the right to such decent compensation. Of course, all the parties believe they're right, so they'll reach out safely with court proceedings. In that sense, the immaterial damage from 300 to 3,000 euros is pointless when it comes to such major disputes. As for maybe a key member, if we change that, maybe this whole text of the law would make sense, it concerns Article 33. – providing funds for payment. I believe Mr. Secretary will understand. I will read it and explain further what might be a useful idea for this law – funds to pay cash compensation and compensation for property damage are provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In the context of the funds intended to cover the ongoing expenditures of the courts of the public prosecutors, excluding expenditure on employees, etc. In other words, these 300 to 3,000 euros as proposed are all of us, right? They pay the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We fill in the budget, budgets spill those resources to courts, as well as to all other state bodies. The question is, why would the judges be more effective, when they know that someone else is going to settle that damage, and what's worst can happen as a particular problem, because you can't reduce the wages to the judges who are doing bad things, who have an objection, or a complaint, but the consequences will be that there's no paper in court, because, simply through execution, you block the court's account and those funds go towards some judgment that needs to go and the courts won't be able to function, because they won't have enough resources. What would make sense is to tie exactly to employee expenditures, not to employees, but to judges. In that case, you as judges when you're acting and you're aware of what we heard today, that there are judges who haven't taken 20 cases in years, that they'll be reduced wages to a certain percentage, I'm not a representative of the idea that they remain completely without pay, that they will personally suffer the consequences, this law would and how it makes sense. And not only that, but also other colleagues, because when the total salary fund is reduced in one court, so other judges would probably have fewer salaries, so they would make their colleagues work, they wouldn't allow the cases to become obsolete, or to delay, and on the other hand, I think the presidents of the courts would be far more motivated to file charges against their colleagues, because they have reason to do so. In the judiciary, the rule is that everyone protects each other. You just don't want to mind your colleagues, they won't mind lawyers, and that's the situation we're in today. This move would make the judiciary far more effective, because at the end of the day, you don't get caught up in the independence of the Constitution, they have the right to pay, and they have to suffer certain consequences for their work. I think you should think about it, because if things were set up like that, this law would really give you very quick results. At the very end of my presentation of the whole concept of the law that I was already talking about, I think it is not disputed that this text of the law does not have a foothold in some European directives or should I say to some European legislation, and in the end, that is what the legislator himself said did not exist. That it is not translated into language, that there are no regulations, etc., but calls for conventions of the Council of Europe. I don't wish that, although a lot of mistakes have been made in the past, if we were to invent hot water again that won't yield results and I ask you not to get me wrong, I'd really like this to be a result, but I'm afraid that in some year's time, we'll see if the results are minimal, and that the situation in which we find ourselves is going to increase the number of old objects and that we simply won't qualify for further European integration through chapters 23 and 24. I believe that a far more efficient way of working is precisely an effective control of the judiciary by the High Council of Justice, the President of the Courts, directly senior courts, and that indeed, if this system is put in place with a clear responsibility that we will not have this problem in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27072	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27073	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been paying attention to Mr. Homen's exposure and there are some things we can, in which we can't agree. Thank God that's why we're on two opposite political sides, but I'm going to look back on some of the things that the distinguished predecessor has underlined and highlighted as a matter of fact. I'll start from this last one, and that's a question of Article 33. The bill, which reads - funds for payment of cash compensation and compensation of property damages, are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget, under funds intended to cover the current expenditures of courts, public prosecutors, excluding staff and ongoing maintenance of facilities and equipment. It makes sense what Mr. Homen said, it is not controversial, but such a solution should be recognised by the progress made in relation to the solutions that existed before, and the solution that existed before that is that, uncontrollable in similar matters, funds are paid out of budgetary divisions, i.e. the position of the Ministry of Justice, which in any way could in individual cases affect the duration of the procedure. So, on the one hand, you could have had, like that case you mentioned earlier, a judge who doesn't schedule a single hearing from 2008 to 2014. It does not carry out any of the only procedural operations and according to existing solutions, i.e. by June 2014 when three members of the Court Regulation Act started, any compensation for such negligence and non-discipline of the judge would be paid directly by the State, or by the Government of the Department of Justice. My opinion is that this solution is a step forward. This is a solution that normally should interfere with the presidents of the courts to take care of the working discipline of their judges, and I must tell you that it is possible to name two hands on the hands of the presidents of the courts who, over the past year, submitted disciplinary applications against their judges for a year and a half. This was preceded by a convincing President of the Supreme Cassation Court, I think he filed over 50 applications. You've got a few cases where the presidents of the courts, mostly appeals courts, some senior court, and maybe three to four basic courts. In a way, the presidents of the courts weren't motivated or they didn't want to deal with what was a real problem. Let me see one thing. The President of the Court also has wider powers than the ordinary judge, there are even greater receipts than the ordinary judge and is responsible for the poor work of the court, which he manages and praises for the good work of the court he manages. How do you motivate him? Well, you know, if you have a president of a court in whose court you have a completely reckless, reckless, sometimes unprofessional judge, that court will feel the concrete consequences of something like that. I would use it to mention something that existed as a practice and the elderly among us will remember that time. My colleague Homen and I are in this younger generation of people, so we can think of it from stories. Earlier, thirty, 40 years ago at the entrance to every court in Serbia, every municipal court, every county court had an ad board, you have today. On that ad board included the results of the work of the best judge in that month or the first few of the best judges according to the results of the work in that month or the entire ranking of all judges according to the results of the work. And when there's an election, let's just say, from community court to county court, that's all that's ever been seen. What is impossible to do today in all courts in Serbia? Which is impossible today for a citizen, let's say, in some cup, when he enters court to see on the ad board who was the best judge in the previous month. I don't want to mention who was the worst. I think that's something to know. Then in this particular case, when you have a judge who does not have one, two, five, or 20 months of financial resources for the work of his court because of poor or reckless work, the judges are making it difficult for the proceedings for which compensation is due to the parties affected by this violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, something needs to be changed. If the President of the Court is not interested in changing anything, he no longer deserves to be the president of that court. The High Council may suggest that the National Assembly may dismiss the President of that court. I must tell you the good part, a large number of problems have arisen also because the High Council of the Judiciary since 2010 and by the end of 2012, it has dealt with the correction of errors of the poor general choice of the judge and has not taken into account the disciplinary responsibility. You've had years in which no judge has been released based on disciplinary proceedings. You have a previous year where this is already compared to that year when not one has been solved is a significant number and it's really interesting when you take and look at these cases they were book examples. I just listed an object. You have, let's say, a second case where the outsider who was obliged to act within eight days, let's say, contact the President of the Court for certain circumstances to extend that deadline, but we did have a case of outsiders who were late making decisions of 150 or more days in over 1400 decisions. The judge, for example, had three, four or five judicial assistants at his disposal. You have courts where there is no judge's assistant to help the outsider, and he's doing much better and more up-to-date. We need to wake up here right now, and that's the part where we agree, we need to wake up the President of the Court. He needs to be told to a certain extent - you are responsible for organising the work of your court and within that organization for one part, that technical part of the work of your judges. It is unacceptable to have one completely unscheduled and unpredictable appointment of the hearing. It's really inadmissible. You know what, in the end, it's not just gonna pay for the citizens again, it's gonna pay for the state. In my opinion, at this point, to consider this solution where even the salaries of employees will be threatened because of these things is a hasty solution. Can we talk about the future of going to that too, so when the judiciary's budget is rounded up and everything is in control of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, I think that's the topic we can discuss. After all, Mr. Homen was also the State Secretary at the Department of Justice, so there was an opportunity to do something like this. I doubt anyone would make such a radical, so sudden change, such a radical cut. As for the level of compensation, so here's a parallel solution, in Slovenia the maximum compensation is 5,000 euros, which is actually significantly more than in Serbia because these three thousand euros in Serbia is just over eight average earnings, and 5,000 euros in Slovenia is about five average earnings. Slovenia is a country that has serious problems with the protection of the right to trial, not with protection, but with a lengthy length of judicial proceedings. The passing of such a law did not solve all their problems, but it helped them to a good degree and introduced a much better working discipline in courts. You know how, if you have, and that's what this law should do when it starts to apply to give some results on the mid-term. On the basis of this law, if we exempt the executive cases that we have discussed, which will be subject to regulation in the law on enforcement and security, if you exempt those cases, you will in these cases be able to see somewhere and what a judge who really is a problem for his court, who can't, won't or won't work or who simply, is a good judge in the sense that he can make a good decision, mishandle a court case, makes it too difficult for too long. We used to have a case at the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade where a competent court president introduced a payment of a certain fee for delaying the holding of the hearing, of course not in the sense that it puts the very essence of the proceedings at risk. This led to it being the most equipped municipal court in Belgrade. Of these funds he bought new computers, equipment cabinets, courtrooms. So, what you said earlier, a capable president of the court and without such a law can bring his court to a better condition, but if we rely only on a person, then we will end up building institutions, and institutions are being built by law. Of course, it's all of us when we choose the presidents of the courts to walk away from the legal assumption that it's a person who's worthy and who's going to do his job well and quality. There are no rules. Sometimes the President of the Court is a bad president and an extraordinary judge. Sometimes the average judge is a great judge. You know that. That's the way it is in law. You've got people running big law offices, who aren't extraordinary lawyers, but they're great job organizers, they're good at setting up their office, and they run in a good way. Will this law be effective? This depends first on its application and on the work of the presidents of the courts and the public prosecutors themselves. What will be the penalty for their poor work? The sanction will be that they will be extremely bad court presidents and if they make too many problems and costs because they are not frames to organise their court's work well, they will no longer be there. The French say “nobleso nearer, ” but here the function is binding. It is not the office of the President of the Court of Justice to make statements for the media, to be photographed, but to work. We have had and we still have one shot at discharging the President of the Court, let's say, those non-judgmental obligations in the organisation of the work of the court, so the institution of the court manager or the governor of the court has been introduced. It's a good idea, but it's rarely where she came into life in Serbia. We will enter into the rationalization of the work of the state authorities, including the rationalisation of the work of courts, into the formation of joint services. Over 10 judicial authorities are in Belgrade, each should have its own public procurement service and often many of them do not have qualified officials who can do good and quality work, so why not form one service, a central service? In this way you will gather people who do these jobs in one place, more efficient, better quality and better conduct public procurement. I gave this as an example. Why not form a single accounting service? What's the problem? In such a way, the presidents of the courts should be relieved of something that is simply not their job. That's the way it is in this case. Let's let the President of the Court, if he is the one proposing the annual work schedule of the judges, he will be responsible through the application of this law for the implementation, or for the organisation of the work of his court. I think this is a good trip. Once, as I said, you might consider this possibility, because it turned out, I believe that you were once at that opportunity when you worked at the Justice Department when some computer error made her pay two days late, you know what was the reaction in courts and in the prosecutions. So the judge is a public official, he is the authority of the Republic of Serbia. Let us enable him, through investment in the infrastructure of the court, through the adoption of better and better laws, we will try to create much better conditions for his work. But that doesn't mean these people are irresponsible. The judge's office is characterized by continuity and independence, but that independence draws with it the other side, which is responsibility. It has begun to establish responsibility, the High Judicial Council is in the disciplinary procedures it has carried out to prove that it can do so in a good, quality, legally predictable way, but we must not lose sight of that it is the main beneficiary and the main user of what we bring here, what the Government is proposing and you MPs are bringing, that they are citizens of Serbia. Just one more detail. I don't think there's room for a particular fear of the parties if they complain of disrespecting the right to trial within a reasonable period of time when it comes to the outcome of their proceedings. If that were the case, you know, then any request for an exemption, let's say the judges, would cause such fear, then in the past year we would have identified the same fear, because I can read you, say, the data for 2014. In 2014, a total of 3,809, in several courts 3,022, in the Commercial Court of Appeal 1,370 and in the Criminal Court of Appeal 9.353 were accepted in the Supreme Cassation Court 1.117. This is a system that's already working. We're just defining it better with this bill of law. And as I said, I am convinced that with a good preparation, we have the chance to arrange this area better, more effectively and that Serbian citizens whose cases are being debated and resolved before Serbian courts have a higher level of protection. I'm sorry I took a little longer, but I've really looked back on things from the discussion, and I think that one and the other discussion was very useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27074	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vesna Besarovic. Here you go. I apologize, right on the line, MP Biljana Pantic Pilja.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27075	Thank you. Most of the things said by the minister, but I'd be overreaching, since it's mentioned by my colleague homen that we have the right to object in the bill, and then we have the right to appeal, so that the presidents of the courts will be buried, I think the principle of two-stage procedure must be respected. So, if the party is unhappy with the decision by appeal and if no objection has been decided, that the party has the right to appeal to the President of the Court. That's one thing. Secondly, I will refer to the Minister – in accordance with the powers of the Law on Judges and the Law on the Regulation of Courts and Rules of Procedure, we know what are the duties and obligations of the President of the Court. He is not just here to receive a higher salary, but to conduct the work of the court and to take care of the timely work of his judges. Also, the decisions will be prejudged by that if the party declares its objection, so the judge may, because of the vanity, make a decision contrary to that party, and yet we have the principle of two-stageness, although I really don't doubt that the judge will be governed by law rather than vanity. Col. Homen also stressed that criteria should be introduced for assessing the duration of the trial within a reasonable period, for example, to set some time limit for a metric ruling from, for example, a year. Don't forget that one law on litigation had a six-month deadline in which work disputes were to be resolved and that deadline was never respected and that provision of the law was always violated. That is why she was also expelled from the law, and a new Law on Prosecution was passed. So I don't think we should prejudge that some dispute is resolved in a year, in two, in six months, because we don't know what the legal issue of this dispute is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27076	Right on line, MP Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27077	Your Honor, I really don't have anything against a young colleague, but I have to tell you through a replica, I don't want to go through a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Neither did I mention my colleague, nor did the SNS, I spoke to Mr. Secretary who answered me. So I can agree that he's right or that he's wrong. But as soon as I've answered and thank you to my colleague for the replica, I have a question for Mr. Secretary. I'm gonna take a little bit off the subject. Something I've read about the public debate, as far as the law on enforcement is concerned, I don't want to change the subject much, but it is still linked to the right to trial within a reasonable period, which is that appeal will be reintroduced. If it's not difficult for you, I'd like you to answer me if it's true, so in the executive procedure, because I think it will directly affect this law and be far more difficult to apply, or that there will be a further dispute between the execution and the full court procedure itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27078	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27079	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the draft law on enforcement and security, among other things, contains the possibility of bringing in a complaint. Since this is an extremely important procedural law, the public debate under the draft does not last, as the government's work Rules of Procedure generally foresees, for 30 days, for 90 days, which is three times longer. There are many other solutions set up in that draft in a way that they can, but they don't have to be adopted. In any case, the public hearing will give its final judgment. In my opinion, what we are about and what I think should be a focus for every future government, every future Ministry of Justice, and this, is that conditions are created for much better and much more effective, continuous training of judges, so that we do not just deal with the consequences, but to take account of much higher causes, and the causes often know that they are also the insufficient permanent training of judges who are in permanent judicial office. There is, therefore, a possibility, and a public debate will give its final court, i.e. the final court will be at the MPs when this bill is discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27080	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vesna Besarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27081	Thank you. Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, gentlemen of the Parliament, I will speak on behalf of our party of the bill on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Namely, the right to trial within a reasonable period, as one of the fundamental rights of man, is defined in the Serbian Constitution as the right to a fair trial. The right to trial within a reasonable period is a very important right and political issue at the same time, and therefore its development in recent years is taking the upstream line. The declaration of this right in itself is not sufficient unless it is provided by law. If the exercise of the right to judicial protection is long and slow, if the court tolerates the impunity of parties and other participants in the proceedings, if the judges are changed, etc., then this right remains a dead letter on paper. The practice of the European Court of Justice played a crucial role in the development of that institute. The right to trial within a reasonable period has been introduced, namely, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, and the Convention itself has established a European Court of Human Rights in order to ensure compliance with the obligations undertaken by the States to this Convention. Due to the increased number of cases found before the European Court, states, including Serbia, do not have an effective legal remedy in their national legislation to protect this right. Therefore, in the 2007 Constitutional Court Act of Serbia, Serbia prescribed the possibility to file a constitutional appeal if other legal remedies for its protection were exhausted or not provided for, or if all legal remedies for its protection were not exhausted in cases where the right to trial was violated within a reasonable period of time. The same law states that the Constitutional Court’s decision adopting a constitutional appeal constitutes a legal basis for the application for compensation for damages or the removal of other harmful consequences before the competent authorities. The 2013 Law amending and supplementing the 2013 Law allows citizens who believe that the trial takes too long to sue the court and receive compensation for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. These are members already mentioned, Article 8a to Article 8b. However, in addition to all efforts to make the courts more efficient, the data we have on the number of pending cases at the end of 2013 is really frightening. Of course, in addition to the general, systemic reasons that Mr. Minister spoke of, as well as the reasons that are on the side of the judge, the impunity, the changing of judges, subjective and objective factors, etc., there are also situations which we have witnessed, which is the blocked work of the courts. First, due to the reorganisation of the network of courts, the courts were blocked, and then the lawyers strike in June for the increase in taxis, and in the end, we had a months-long lawyer strike after the adoption of the Public Records Act. On the other hand, the European Court of Justice has laid down clear rules, establishing criteria to assess whether the length of proceedings before national courts is reasonable or not. The criterion is the complexity of the case, the behaviour of the applicant, the behaviour of the competent authorities, the circumstances of the case and the arguments presented. Priorities are identified, such as labour disputes, victims of accidents, cases of prison sentences and police violence, critical health of the applicant and his advanced life, family relations, parental and child relations, limited physical status, etc. When calculating the length of the procedure, the initial date shall be determined which differs in litigation, criminal and administrative proceedings. Causes of delays are also analysed at all stages of the procedure. In simpler cases, up to two years is considered reasonable, and in priority cases the deadline may be shorter. In the most complex cases, the deadline should not exceed five years, and in the most complex cases eight. If the conduct of the applicant, which was obviously malicious, has contributed to the extension or excessive length of the proceedings, the court will conclude that there are no reasons, i.e. there is no delay as provided for by the law. Also, the court will never be in the view that it is an excessively long procedure if it is deemed to be in the interest of a fair trial. But if the state before this court, as an argument, states that courts are being overrun by other cases, the European Court will answer that according to the Convention, and this applies to our country, the Contracting States are obliged to organise the judicial system in such a way that they can satisfy the request for trial within a reasonable period. Of course, we know that the condition for addressing the European Court is that all domestic legal medicines, including constitutional appeals, are exhausted, and that the legal remedy is effective if it can speed up the proceedings before the court or that the parties provide adequate legal satisfaction. The outcome of the dispute before domestic courts is not relevant for determining the party's right to trial within a reasonable period of time before the European Court of Justice. Given that the trial is in place within a reasonable period of time in international and European law, it must also be incorporated into our right by prescribing deadlines with the completion of certain legal and judicial procedures. Of course, the best solution is prevention and only adoption and action on the basis of a special Law on the right to trial within a reasonable period of time has the expected preventive importance, as it is very precisely approaching the solution to this problem. The draft law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, which is the subject of today's discussion, fully respects the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and introduces two legal means to speed up the proceedings – appeal and appeal, and, in addition, a request for fair satisfaction. The law contains guidance for courts, criteria which courts must take into account when deciding on remedies. I repeat, the law plays a preventive role, as the law itself should lead to an increase in the efficiency of the judges in question. The law is comprehensive because it applies to litigation, non-parony, administrative and criminal proceedings. The protection proceedings shall then be brought into force within a reasonable period of time. Namely, the party must first use the legal means to speed up the proceedings, which are the objection and appeal, and only then file a claim for cash compensation on property damage. Of course, it comes from the point of view that the party's basic motive is to speed up the process, not the cash compensation it will make. Also, the Attorney General is given a new role as a settlement body, if that is what the party wants, but not as a necessary procedural assumption to file an action. It is also important to provide protection in criminal proceedings, i.e. in a prosecutor's investigation. All of this should result in a reduction in the number of complaints to the European Court of Human Rights. As for certain concrete matters relating to the provisions of the law, I would firstly like to point out that I am truly giving recognition to the authors of the reasoning of the law, because the reasoning of the law is very high-quality, comprehensively, a merger of the case-law of the European Court of Justice and the legal solutions of the EU member states. However, I have some suggestions that are related to the very text of the law, which seems to me that in some members might be clearer. Something is about clarity, and something is about metrics, or content itself. In Article 7(2) of this proposal, we have a provision that provides for the President of the Court to decide, by appeal, on an annual schedule, that he determines one or more judges who conduct the proceedings and decide on objections. In practice, however, this solution seems to be controversial. First, it violates the principle that complaints at the length of the trial are being decided by the President of the Court, but by another judge, and that principle is being introduced in the law in order for judges to be disbursed and that the trial would be faster and more effective. In addition, when it comes to the appeal brought to the President of the Court, it could happen that the annual schedule of the President of the Court determines the judge who is in charge of the case to which the appeal will be brought. That makes me feel like a good idea, so now some committee in charge sees whether the idea is acceptable, to suggest that the Deputy President of the Court, also on the annual schedule, decides on the submitted complaint and thus overcome the situation when the President of the Court is prevented from deciding whether he is acting as judge in the case for which the party is objecting, because the legal situation is also possible. Then, Article 22, which regulates the right to fair satisfaction, seems to me that he is also not clear enough because in the same attitude, both the first and the second, regulates more legal situations by listing which must be broken down to be clear. Only the legal solution is fine and I have no problem with the legal solution, as such, but in the application of the law, and we make sure that the law is acceptable to parties that are not graduate lawyers, therefore, if we promote the interest of the parties and guarantee it by this law, it seems to me that this formulated text in Article 22 opens the door to some misunderstandings and misunderstandings, i.e. requires a more detailed clarification. That would be what the law itself refers to. Finally, I would like to say that our parliamentary group, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, will support this law, vote for it, as will the Law on Judges, or two other texts on today's agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27082	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27083	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me first say that DS will, of course, vote for the adoption of a law confirming Protocol 15 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe for two reasons. First of all, because this Protocol confirms, above all, the importance and priority of the Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Freedoms and Rights in the area of protection of human rights at the level of Europe, because it confirms the great and significant, irreplaceable role of the European Court of Human Rights, which protects the direct right of citizens and because this Protocol strengthens the role of the Member State of the Council of Europe, so the signatories of the Convention, in the domain of direct application of the Convention to domestic courts and other state bodies. Now I'm going to say something, of course, about the law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable time. All citizens who conduct very often long processes in front of domestic courts could be very pleased with this law, if it really brings great improvements. Does he bring big changes and improvements? It may be, but it doesn't have to mean. That it could be, and it doesn't have to mean traces from what Mr. Minister has been telling us so far in his opening statement and later interventions. First of all, I agree with Mr. Minister that the majority of the reasons why deadlines are broken very often, the unwarranted lengthy trials lie in objective factors, in procedural laws and in everything that makes our organisation of the judiciary, the organisational network of courts, etc. This law won't change that. That's what Mr. Minister said well. This law refers, in fact, to those cases where the irresponsibly, unwarrantedly long duration of the trial depends on the impunity and irresponsible conduct of the judges. So we know what we're talking about and what the scope is. So it depends on what our entire legal system will look like, our entire judiciary, to the extent that it will actually be independent and independent, whether the trial will apply within a reasonable period of time on the general plan. This is, in any case, an important constitutional right that allows citizens to be protected from undue and unnecessary delay in proceedings. The second reason is one that the minister himself stated about whether this law would be effective, he said earlier, whether it would apply, it depends, he said, by the judges and the president themselves. So, we, according to the Convention and the recently adopted resolution in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, should also as Parliament, when we are passing laws, be a guarantee of human rights. It is something that the documents also provide for the Council of Europe, when it comes to Protocol 15, if you will, and in general about the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Is it then, as a guaranteeer of human rights, as a single national parliament, when we pass one law, we can be sure that this law will indeed produce the effects that we want, if, behold, the minister himself says that its application will essentially depend not on how we adopt the law, but on how judges themselves will act? We must have, as MPs, a little more assurance that the law we are making will actually produce some effects. At least that's what it seems to me, and it's possible that someone else has a different opinion. Why does the government propose this law? The government is proposing it for two reasons. First of all, because Serbia belongs to a group of the five countries most burdened by the work of the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. We are together in a group with Russia, Ukraine, Turkey and Italy. According to the 2013 data, this group of five countries is burdening the Court of Human Rights with more than 67%. The second reason why this law is proposed by the Government is that Protocol 15, which we are likely to adopt, provides for the subsidiarity of the European Court of Human Rights, i.e. a much greater responsibility of the Member State in the immediate application of the Convention, which I have already spoken of. Of course, it is one process that follows the conference in Interlaken, Brighton, Izmir, etc., where it is trying to achieve a greater efficiency of the European Court of Human Rights, by preventing the ongoing repetition of processes with the same problem, so to speak, with the same case, where, of course, in the case of Serbia, the violation of Article 6, on the right to trial within a reasonable period, is one of the priority types of complaints brought to the European Court of Human Rights. What are the main questions in this law and, in general, the questions of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time? The first is a question that we must not lose sight of, and that is when we talk about the need to improve the efficiency of the court, that is one need, but that need must not go to the expense of that essential role of the court, which is that it expresses justice, that it is, in fact, determining the rights that are being asked before the court as questionable. So we have to keep an eye on that balance, which is the basic task of the court. The efficiency of the court, it must be sought, must be built and built through and through procedural provisions and through such laws, of course, to be established. So, we must not compromise the efficiency of any other rights that citizens have, whether human, or the general rights whose recognitions are sought before the court. Compared to this law, the main question is – how can we believe that it will be effective? How can we predict its application in practice? What results will he lead to? We are more critical than the government's representative, or Mr. Minister. We think that the solutions provided for by this bill, no matter what they are good in that they provide for legal means for the immediate exercise of the right to trial within a reasonable period, but that there are a lot of shortcomings that will lead, in our opinion, to very serious difficulties in achieving it and that we will have to change it somewhere, after six months, a year, from the beginning of application, whatever. What, of course, this law should not become, and that is to become a defence for citizens to exercise a direct right to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, regardless of the need, of course, to apply the Convention directly at domestic level and to have a more responsible approach to direct application of human rights and human freedoms. So our mission as Members of the People is to assess whether the application of this law will be effective. In the opinion of many experts, which I followed during the public debate that lasted, it seems to me, as of this summer, by this law, that the law is too widespread. There is an observation that many deadlines are unnecessaryly long, that they will further make it difficult and extend the process itself. The legal means themselves that are predicted do not work effectively for one simple reason, two reasons to say, is that the objections should be decided by the judges, the president of the court, the same court before which the case is being conducted, which is always, as my colleague Homen has just said in the judiciary, courts, lawyers, in the health care system, professions protect each other. So there's a question of how it's going to make it effective if we're not just going to encourage judges now. I think that's very bad, that's what I was just talking about in the debate, that we are now encouraging judges to report to each other, to the competition. I think that in this way, to a large extent, the dignity of the judges will actually be compromised somewhere, regardless of the need for them to be responsible and fulfil their work tasks, but it is much more important to build a professional atmosphere in court. The criteria on the basis of which trials and criteria can be conducted on the basis of which judges may decide should be maximumly objective. What I feel is that this law does not seem enough and that this creates one space for potential abuse, and even sometimes in some cases, I can see the disfavor in the face of a proven fight against corruption in the judiciary, which is that there is one large space for free judgment and arbitration of the President of the Court, he can determine a judge who will decide only by objecting, so unless it is done by the President of the Court. The President of the Court may, even in the event of an emergency, take the case to the judge and assign it to another judge. You see, in some practice that we're seeking, and we're starting to apply, we're going to objectiveize the entire mechanism to which cases are assigned to individual judges, aren't we, Mr. Minister? It seems to me that here at the small door it is reintroduced that the President of the Court will decide which judge in particular will take some of the cases. I don't think that's a good solution, and it had to be regulated in a different way. As regards the limitation of compensation, in principle there is no reason against limiting compensation, but there is one very important argument which I do not think has been discussed so far, and this is the following – this limit proposed by the bill is for the subject. So if you have more participants in the process on one side, the compensation will be determined by the case rather than by the participant, which is not in line with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Those who determine an immaterial, so compensation, such as Ridzic and others against Serbia, Alisic and others, etc. There were 2,000 euros each in the process, or 4,000 euros each in the process. A debate has been held on whether a citizen seeking justice is seeking protection of his right to trial within a reasonable period of time, aimed at achieving compensation for this just satisfaction. Of course not, that's not his goal. But my belief that it's not the purpose of a tenacity in being satisfied only, but it has another purpose, it's kind of a penalty for the state, it's kind of punishment for the state, or for judges, if you want, not to make similar mistakes in the future. So to prevent one deterrent, so to speak, by practice that the state, or state authorities, courts, is making mistakes in the process. I think it's very important that we keep in mind. If that fee is too small, then I'm afraid that purpose will be in some way, it won't be used. I think the big problem with applying this law is that the presidents of the courts will be overloaded. What we can expect in practice is that the presidents of those courts who are otherwise overloaded, and the statistics on which the courts are overloaded, I think they have recently been published in the press which is the number of cases handled by judges in Belgrade compared to judges in some smaller places. Most of all, there will be an objection because citizens think there is no trial within a reasonable period so that both the presidents of the courts, or the judges they determine to be the most burdensome on the complaints. Did we predict how we're going to solve this problem? We did not provide for the bill, therefore, there is no saying that there are no budgetary means necessary for the application of this law, and I fear that if we are simply pushing additional jobs, such as these, on the shoulders of already overburdened presidents of courts and judges in certain courts, there is a major impasse in solving and by objections and by all other affairs they do. It is clear, then, that some new budgets will be needed for the application of this law, at least in hiring new people in the judiciary. In the end, I want to say something else, so what we think is that it takes a lot more preparation, judge, to achieve the better effects as much as possible, but if we leave so much free chance of assessing to the judges and really put everything in their hands alone, I'm afraid we won't have a good application. You know, when we talk about what, after all, every judge's mission aside from being a state body and having to obey the law. I once entered one of them in the U.S. where there was a mission to this court at the entrance. A mission in terms of what our mission is. So that's what the judges themselves wrote in some process of building their own court and some culture of their institutions – our mission to make justice available to citizens and to achieve their rights in the shortest possible procedure. So the measure in which each judge will incorporate, therefore, adopt it as his motto, that should be one of our goals, not to the extent that we encourage mutual reporting, competition. I don't think that's gonna be good, and I think it's a good idea to go in this other sense to build a professional culture in the judiciary. As for the Law supplementing the Law on Judges, the Government proposes that this amendment extend the number of years required for retirement for judges of the Supreme Casualty Court and not to be 65, as foreseen by law enforcement, but that they can exceptionally continue to serve as judges until they are 67 years old. In our opinion, it is not clear enough motive for amending and supplementing this law. It is argued that, in order to protect the right to a fair trial, it is necessary to allow these judges, therefore, of the Supreme Court of Cassation, to serve two years longer than the judges of the lower court. In our opinion, if it takes the expertise of senior colleagues, because I as a lawyer have quite an understanding, why is this possibility not overlooked for the judges of lower courts, at least for the appeals, whether they also need high expertise and ensuring the equality of parties in court proceedings. What we think, is that these changes, in fact, create a space to solve certain individual cases, specifically in the Supreme Cassation Court, that someone simply needs to extend the working age for another year. It is not good when in this way some exceptions are made in the legal system or in the law. It's all a kind of "lex specialis" compared to general norms. However, it seems that citizens should get used to this way, mainly this method is used to managing this country. It is our mission as MPs to point to both the government and the citizens. That's why we think this solution is not good and that if we're extending the working century, it should be equal for other judges. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27084	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27085	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to look back on all the more important things that have been presented in the previous presentation. It is true that often delaying court proceedings lies in objective factors. However, so far, we have not had a clear and precise legal solution to protect citizens' rights in case the delay in proceedings is not caused by objective factors. It is also a matter of preparation for the application of one of these laws. And again, I think for the third time today, so we're doing something with this law that we've introduced to the three provisions of the law on the regulation of courts. Just because of the shrewdness, the inaccuracy, the inaccuracy of these provisions, we needed a law like this. Again, I made one mistake earlier when I cited the number of cases before a criminal, appeal court upon requests to protect the rights of the trial within a reasonable time. So we in less than a year, a little over half a year, so let's say that's seven months in 2014, we had total received 9.353 cases, or three requirements for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable time. Our courts have resolved from 9.353, they have resolved 6,116 requirements and in 6,116 cases we have had a decision on the citizens' request that their right to trial has been violated within a reasonable period of time. We've had cases where no violation of that right has been established, we've had a case where a violation of the law has been found and such a court ruling has been issued. We've had cases where, in addition to determining the violation of the right of a citizen, that is, there's been compensation for a violation of the right. This bill, in one legal, predictable way, regulates the entire matter of protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. For the application of those three provisions, the judges prepared themselves and, I may say, to the surprise of many in the professional public that our judicial system has high-quality judges who have been able to make one good system out of the three provisions of the law on the regulation of courts. We want this system through this bill to improve and I think this is a good way to go. When it was just said that this bill gave some authority to the presidents of courts who were not so good, so that the President of the Court could take away the case and give it to another judge in the work. Allow me, but this is something already prescribed by the law on judges and the Rules of Procedure. So, when you have a case that one judge is long gone for disease or any other reason, the president of the court can take the case away and give it to another judge. What could not in this case, when urgent action is needed? Of course, just on the basis of the law and the Rules of Procedure, arbitraryness certainly isn't something that's good. The effectiveness of the European Court of Human Rights appreciates both de facto and de jure, therefore, and normative effectiveness, whether you have legally prescribed effective legal means to protect certain rights and whether you have an effective system of protection of those rights. Something's gone wrong for you, I hope, as a mistake. The European Court of Human Rights, when deciding on compensation, decides on the subject rather than the party, not on the subject. I don't want to go into the details of why it makes any other sense to them, but it decides on the subject. It is true that the amounts that are higher than these amounts, but I have just cited some comparative experiences, that these are equal to those in Strasbourg, so surely there would be no need to bring such a law nor limit those levels of compensation. I have to tell you that I think that limiting the amount of compensation is a good thing, of course, if it respects reality and living standards somewhere, political and economic and all the overall conditions within a state-law system, because we have huge problems, in cases where your amounts are not limited. I'll give you a concrete example. So, I'm talking about limiting the amount, he had a huge problem with court decisions that determines the compensation for a person who was unfounded of freedom, where the judge, when he decides, absolutely nothing about the law on the height of damage and we have cases where a person who was neither at public office, was highlighted as a public worker, at all in public life or in a public position, where the day of unfounded imprisonment is valued at 22 or 25,000 dinars and these are astronomical amounts. You come to, say, the situation, if 20,000 dinars for 30 days of unfounded freedom, that face will receive 600,000 dinars, a compensation of immaterial damage. You have a case of the dead guards, where the Constitutional Court has determined as the highest amount of compensation, the immaterial damage of 500,000 dinars. If you look at what psychologists value, and what the experts of a particular profession and confirm during court proceedings, on that scale the greatest stress a person can experience is the death of a close person. There's another place in our society where we lose our jobs. Then you find yourself in a situation where a man who was in custody for 30 days has been sentenced by a Serbian court to 600,000 dinars in damages due to unfounded imprisonment, with 30 days in custody. You have a case where someone killed a child and was given 500,000 dinars. So, these are some things and I have brought this out more, and Mr Jovanovic will answer the word, he was a member of the Commission who dealt with this issue at the Justice Ministry, these are some totally irrational acts. Do you know how many Serbian citizens do jobs where they can make 20 or 25,000 dinars a day? It's on the level of statistical error. I think that what is contained in this law, as regards the limits of monetary amounts for certain types of compensation, should consider introducing such ranges and other procedural laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27086	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27087	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, the Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of the proposed legislative solutions, and I will, in an analysis of what is on the agenda today, give and take the liberty to give some of my assessments as well as what our expectations of applying these laws are. We have seen that the opposition has almost no expectations, even thinks that this will burden the work of the court, that the presidents of the courts will have much more to do, that they will be buried, that human relations may deteriorate, and that they do not expect any particularly great effects. We're in this part, first of all what I want to say is good at last, that one minister of justice remembered to do what was long needed to be done. For what? I simply believe that I am one of the few MPs who has entered almost all the courts in our country. The beginning, especially when the environments change and so on, was full of optimism, and then after a year, believe me, Minister, when I enter the courtroom, I see the expression of the president's face, the party, the lawyer, everything is clear to me what's waiting for me. And you've given one grade, the situation in our justice system that I agree with, and that's the assessment that's been following the state of our judiciary since 1945, and especially since the 1990s, that the situation in our justice system has been alarming. In what way? It's alarmingly bad. With what you're proposing right now, we will, first of all, mobilize the judges, the presidents of the courts, but give meaning to those for whom the state exists, which is citizens. A citizen should be at the center of the event and his right. Today, survey, explore the mood of citizens on the functioning of the rule of law, on the reputation and influence of the judicial function, the reputation of the judge, you will not meet any particularly good assessments, which is an assessment of the system of functioning of this very important segment of state government. Who in this part has made an appointment? As in everything else, the state has scheduled, scheduled the system. And I can tell you that I agree with you, and I don't think we should look at this problem black and white at all. There's everything here. There are judges who don't need this law at all. Here, I will mention in a series of light examples, an excellent example, Judge Ljubinko Petrovic of Aryl, now the President of the Municipal Court in Požega, he did not need the Rules of Procedure at all, nor the President of the Court, nor the control of the Ministry of Justice, and so on, every morning at 7.10, the judge was at his post, in 14.20 cases for that day co-operated. One of the best judges I've ever met in my practice. There are a lot of good judges, of course, that a lot of things and everything in all institutions depends on people, but if we leave ourselves to the will of both judges and people, then we gamble. For what? Because some judge will do just the right thing, and some in the wrong way, criminally abuse the function that the state has given him and in this way, in the worst way, represent the state and this very important segment of state government. For what? So if I tell you when I go into the courtroom and I see facial expressions, then I understand in which direction the procedure is going to go. The ways, the phases, the jokes and the jokes in which the judges have obstructed their own proceedings at the expense of the public's reputation is numerous. It's such a beauty of the kind that's been created for decades, that novels can be written about it. For example, one judge from Odzak doesn't schedule one important item for months of hearing, and in other minor cases, it schedules within very short deadlines, and then the parties from southern Serbia schedules in winter conditions, when the great snowfalls and snow and ice are scheduled at seven o'clock in the morning. Of course, the only reason was the judge's wish not to attend the hearing and that is one of the options used in all this. We have a great lawyer. Lawyers who assist in the work of the court, but we have a lawyer who does everything to obstruct the case especially in criminal cases in order for the proceedings to become obsolete. In doing so, here are our citizens often really when they come, especially if there is a procedure in a place where they don't live, he doesn't often ask who's the best lawyer in terms of expertise, but who has the best connections, who's the one who's the best to obstruct, who's the one who's gonna use everything that's available to him in a procedural sense, but also as far as other relationships are concerned. The very important segment of obstruction is also the court's experts. From having a few years of subjection, that the judge is not interested in it at all, to having misjudged the finding and thinking absolutely obstructing the further course of proceedings, that is because it will then come to the contrary opinion of the expert, and then the third skill, and only then does the judge have a headache on how to make a verdict, because however he does, some of the parties have a lot of arguments calling for another finding and the opinion of the experts to oppose such a verdict. In addition to what you have given, these analyses, I think that this number of 90% of the cases in the executive procedure is based on a proposal for enforcement based on a credible document, it is not worrying, but also what many fellow MPs have been talking about to the President of the Court and to the judge's schedule and simply to control the urgency of what his associates are doing. I would disagree with the estimates that, I don't know, the fact that the President of the Court will decide on complaints and complaints, that something will spoil human relations because it can only be fixed by institutions. He who does his job well, has nothing to fear, no complaints, etc. Here, we all get every day a variety of complaints from citizens. I'm, uh, I don't know which address to me as a folk MP, of course I referred that party to the VSS. It is an appeal against the conduct of the President of the Basic Court in Zajecar, who for 18 months does not schedule a hearing in a criminal proceedings damaged as a prosecutor, not to mention that private criminal charges were filed against the director of the Tax Administration in Zajecar on the other hand. Of course, according to the party's appeal, the president of the court, after complaining about the judge's work, only gave a chronological report on what was going on in the case without taking any concrete measures against a judge who is safe and responsible for not doing his job. In addition to what you are doing, which is good, I think it is good to say that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Dragomir Milojevic, has held a meeting with the presidents of all the Court of Justice, that they have been brought into force by the entry into force of this law and other very important strategic decisions based on the analyses that have been made, so on the basis of what is planned to be done, it is planned that the number of old cases will be reduced by 80% by 2018, that by 2018 there will not be one subject of work older than five years, that by 60% the number of cases that last from two to three years, that by 2018 there will not be an investigation that lasts longer than two years, that half the number of investigations that lasts from one to two years, and that currently there are some 17,000 criminal cases older than two years, about ten thousand old labour disputes, and there are a large number of cases that are not always scheduled, simply, the judges or the main hearing. There's something else I want to tell you that I think will help, and maybe it'll be my contribution to understanding the judge's position, which is often very complicated. We've been witnessing for the last ten years that judges who have tried especially in criminal cases, when convicted by a local power-lover, a criminal, were left to their own mercy and mercy. A judge from Cačka went through a kind of hell because she gave a criminal verdict, and simply, the state did not stand behind that judge in terms of protecting its integrity and security, or even the integrity and safety of the children who attended school. One of the judges in one small place almost told me that after the conviction of a local powerful man again, she experienced that the car was blown up and that, of course, the local police, since it seemed to be closer to her than the judge, did nothing, even advised the judge – well, why didn't you think in time, do you know who you were judging? Therefore, what the European Court of Human Rights has often pointed out in its judgments was the non-coordination of state authorities in many cases and the failure of the state to function to the detriment of citizens. We can do the same often through these two examples that I have set, and there are many of them, and we can talk about the protection of judges. Then you mentioned the Topcider case. The office of respected counterpart Olga Batic is in the case for a long time. Here, so, how long does this object last? The families of the damaged guards had to address the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has made a decision that they are injured and the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and the right to life and said that, it seems to me, a shameful decision, which you mentioned, that the satisfaction of immaterial damage is 5,000 euros, which is indeed scandalous. Secondly, ministers, it is difficult, very difficult to break many lobbies, interesting, financial, criminal, lobbying for decades and especially in cases, unfortunately for which our public and regardless of the huge degree of public interest, these lobbies were shown to be more influential than justice, than the Ministry of the Interior, than the prosecution. I've done it before, and now I'm going to mention some things. Here, the case of the murder of Judge Dusan Simenovic has not yet been completed, which should be one of the priorities of the judiciary's work. The murder of journalist Slavko Curuvija has not been completed. The Topcider case isn't closed. The murder of journalist Dade Vujasinovic etc. has not been completed. This shows on one hand the impotence of judicial authorities in a collision with much more influential interest groups and lobbys and sends one extremely negative picture of the functioning of the state and of the functioning of the judiciary. An ordinary citizen when he says – if in such cases, where the public is interested, they make such scandalous failures, what do I expect where the public is not interested, where they can do anything to me and anything? And everything and everything is done. You mentioned something that I also wanted to mention, which is that in the disciplinary responsibility of the judges for several years almost no proceedings were carried out and that almost no judge was resolved, that now again, here last year we had several cases of judge resolution. But I want to point out some order which, in our opinion, is logical. It is, first, to allow the judge to be completely safe, especially in these complex cases, the safety of the judge, the safety of his family. The moment the judge has that kind of freedom, he can decide. On the other hand, in addition to protection and independence, you are also a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, on the responsibility of the judges, because one judge in one case or several cases cannot act irresponsibly, extremely sloppyly, to schedule hearings at 7.8 months, a year, and in some other cases to act in a safe and responsible manner. Where the judge's conduct is determined, in my opinion, that's absolutely the reason for the resolution. When such decisions are made public that in such situations due to discrimination on citizens before the law and before the Constitution, judges are resolved, it will be a strong message to all other judges. We are now discussing something, we are passing a law which is the development of a constitutional provision on the right to trial within a reasonable time. Imagine the importance of this constitutional provision, which should be the provision of a pair of excellencies in the first place or one of the provisions in the first place, how insignificant it has been so far in the conduct and work of many judges. This is also proof that judges are experiencing the highest legal act of one country. Constitutional provisions, no matter what, we'll shoot at every step of the way, our jobs, our interests and our lobbys are more important to us than what the Constitution says. What's also good is that there was a single pilot project where 10 courts in three years solved more than 23 thousand disputed cases. This is proof that, if I'm not mistaken, it was in collaboration with the American Agency for International Development, which has also helped greatly in this project to come to what we have on the agenda today. Then, one of the initiatives of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, that special teams will be formed in courts that will determine the causes of ageing cases and therefore mark them and sort them, which is also a good measure, so, for example, objects older than two years, will stand on the cover – an old case, an object older than five years – an urgent, old case, an object older than 10 years – especially an emergency old case. These are also good measures that so far have many presidents of the court and without this intervention to apply, but unfortunately, not because of one general atmosphere and one general state that exists in our judiciary. Will these measures give any good results? We really expect it will, because whenever you go into something good, of course, you shouldn't expect all the problems to be solved overnight, there will often be complaints that are unfounded, there will also be complaints of a personal nature. This is where the controversy about whether or not to tax the reasons for the complaints and the complaints should be cited, etc., or whether it should be left at the discretion of those who decide, which is the President of the Court. We are closer to the opinion that exists in the law, because we simply cannot predict all cases of obstruction, and if we taxate them, then we are in danger that those cases of judgment within a reasonable period, which are not taxed, are not cause for complaint or appeal. That is why I believe that the solution proposed by the law is a better solution, because everything depends on a specific case and on concrete legal matters and on a concrete assessment by the President of the Court. Since when you get a report from all the courts on the proceedings, on the work of the judge and on the work of the President of the Court, then that type of statistics is the best indicator and pictures of how the President of the Court works and, of course, in all cases where you are not satisfied with the work of the President of the Court, it is necessary first of all to change the President of the Court first. What is also a specificity, I think, of all transition countries, is that they have more judges than EU countries, and that they have more cases in work and that non-trust in the judicial system is less. For example, Croatia has 4.300,000 inhabitants, and if I am not mistaken, about 1,700 judges and problems are similar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27088	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27089	Here, I'm done. I was lucky to be in the Supreme Court of Croatia, and they have indeed implemented some similar measures that we are discussing today have managed to reduce the number of cases. In the debate in particular, we will decide closer on the amendments submitted, but for now, because of the good intentions that the minister has made, you have our full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27090	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27091	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, respected fellow MPs, at the very beginning of the hearing on the Law on the Protection of Justice within a reasonable period, I will point out that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group in the voting day will vote in favour of this law, because we in the Socialist Party of Serbia are starting from the undeniable fact that the trial is within a reasonable period of time one of the basic principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which aphirms the party's right to have an impartial, independent, competent court decide on its request within a reasonable time, while at the same time representing one of the fundamental principles of procedural law. The Constitutional Court has recently decided on the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time on constitutional grounds of constitutional appeals. After that, all these cases have been transferred to jurisdiction, both to regular courts and to appeals courts, courts of the Republic, so that there are no objections in any event that the Presidents of the Courts under the provisions of the proposed law would now be overloaded. It would not be because the practice in cases where claims for infringement of the right of trial are already adopted within a reasonable period, where a number of judges are in charge of these cases, so that, based on this practice, only something that is already in place is explicitly defined in a more precise way and that provision which indicates that the President can, by an annual schedule, determine one or more judges, who will be in charge of these cases, sufficiently indicate that there are no objections to the closure, i.e. the courts with this number of cases, which would rule against the objective of the law. Of course, the key manifestation of a breach of the right of trial within a reasonable period of time is a dispute, i.e. too long a court procedure in which the party has unwarrantedly long and with adverse consequences awaits a decision to protect its right to proceedings, as well as legal interest. There's been a lot of contact here, and many speakers before me have touched the damage generator of the right to trial within a reasonable time. However, it has somehow been avoided to essentially indicate what it has contributed, not from recently, not from a year ago, not from two decades ago, but decades ago, to the ineffectiveness of the judicial system, or courts, to the impunity of the judges, and thus to the flagrant violations of the parties' rights to trial within a reasonable time. I have to sort of bring them here, just like they actually do. First of all, there were no adequate procedural solutions in procedural laws. In the Law on Prosecution, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Act on Non-Parking Procedure, the Law on Enforcement and Security, not long ago. We have only just, reminders for the sake of, Mr. Minister, since 2013 made one shift by introducing new procedural solutions until then. Until then, there was zero tolerance for abuse of procedural powers. The flagrant examples were when a party or authority appeared at the hearing, for example, in front of commercial courts, when the submission was delivered to him, and he said – so I just now received a submission, I cannot declare myself, looking for a deadline for a statement, which is still present today despite the presence of a concentration principle. That used to be common. Generally to delay hearings and search indefinitely. It is common to allow abuses of procedural powers on these grounds. Let's also point to the irrationality of the network of courts that also contributed to the accumulation of cases and the closure of courts, delaying trials by having traveling judges or judges in transit, so they were running from one judicial unit to another judicial unit in fact rushing to do their job in cases where they were engaged. Unfortunately, this could not have been done in an effective way, and this resulted in a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Let me remind you of another detail, which is very important. We passed laws that directly affected the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period, which is the Law on privatisation and the famous Article 20z) of the Privatisation Act, exactly, dear colleagues, who resolved these phenomena, because it prohibited or denied the possibility of implementing the execution where executive debtors are the subject of privatisation in restructuring. Only later did this right be granted to employees, but it did not prevent executives from applying to the Court of Justice in Strasbourg for the protection of their rights, primarily the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. What do the citizens need to know? Citizens should know that the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement within a reasonable period of time is a prejudicial procedural law and it regulates the procedure for the exercise of the right to an accelerated trial, as well as the right to fair satisfaction in the event of an infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period. This procedure shall be carried out in accordance with the rules of the non-partisan procedure, which means that the rules of litigation can be applied accordingly in the proceedings in which applications for infringement of the right of trial are made within a reasonable period of time. What the SPS parliamentary group points out as the quality of this law comes down to several elements, in particular the establishment of legal mechanisms to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, which are objections and complaints. Second, setting up a criteria for the assessment of the duration of the trial within a reasonable period of time. Third, the dispensation of courts from a huge number of cases by setting up the right to reach agreement on the requests of the parties for fair satisfaction with the judiciary, in order to avoid court proceedings and thus relieve courts. Finally, by equating the practice at the level of cash compensation for infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period and there are also no objections that are highlighted, and when it comes to the amount of cash compensation in the name of immaterial damage. Given that you've already called me, I'm just going to confirm that you're absolutely right and that there's a huge proportion between what the Commission has decided for damages to persons unfoundedly deprived of liberty, built by the Justice Department, as monetary amounts, in the name of compensation in relation to decisions of courts that were quite different. I have to point out from court practice, given that I'm doing this, that the case law shows something that doesn't fit those who made those remarks, which is that the death of a close person gives rise to a million dinars. Because of the death of a close person, a son, a father, a brother, a sister, even a mother. What is important to point out, it is important to point out that we are not yet at that level that we have adequate legal mechanisms to combat everything that will now generate the possibility of breaching the right to trial. Article 4 sets out the measures. One of the criteria is the conduct of other state authorities, not just the court. The question now arises -- what is the legal mechanism that will sanction the state body to behave or act in accordance with procedural discipline, respecting the right to trial within a reasonable time? Who's going to sanction an immovableity cadasar or some other service? Hardly. This problem will be present until we establish those mechanisms that will be able to solve it and, of course, by hiring the president of the courts who are in this situation, in general, someone who is the most responsible but also the most competent to solve these issues. This is where the President of the Požega Court was mentioned. You mentioned Pancheva. I have to mention an extremely effective court in Serbia, which is the Business Court of Appeal in Belgrade, thanks to the president of that court. Panchevo, Panchevo. What the SPS parliamentary group feels is that there are certain interventions in the existing bill that, with your respect, might contribute to making existing solutions even more quality. First, Article 10 states that the judge and the public prosecutor do not have the right to appeal against the solution to be adopted. That's right. And they cannot have the right to appeal because they are not parties to the proceedings, but they should consider whether in this situation the right to appeal should be given by the State, or by the Advocate, because there is a possibility that infringements of certain rights, which bind and reflect directly on the state. In the event of the adoption of the objection, the President of the Court shall be given to a judge or a public prosecutor in which orders for the so-called so-called State Prosecutor are contained. effective or so-called effective process actions. We here feel that it is necessary to make sure that this norm is not done which will lead to this law in its opposite, which is that independence and independence of the judge, independence and independence of the judge's office are not harmed. Why? What are the procedural actions that can be imposed, which are not already contained in the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. There are no others, nor can we invent them, because they are not systematicized. Second, which will be stimulated by the judges' proceedings to speed up the process. He's bound to apply the law. The law contains procedural actions, which is why it is sufficient to order him to speed up the criminal proceedings and end it as soon as possible within the deadlines prescribed here. If we go to process actions that are effective then we open a wide range, and what are really effective process actions? Are we going to order a judge in charge to carry out evidence of skill if we have a concentration of evidence? If it is the judge's duty to respect the evidence's concentration, it respects the time frame. Therefore, I think it should be kept in mind that this standard does not harm any other procedural norms, and hence what is fundamental to the judge himself. Article 17 states that no appeal can be made against the solution to the rejection of the appeal. We believe that in this way there is a violation of the principle of two-stageness in the process. Why? Because the one who rejects the appeal can also abuse that authority to reject the appeal. The appeal can be completely orderly. The complaint can be fully established, and someone will find elements of the irregularities or elements to reject and reject. In that case, what will the party that was damaged by the court's procedural decision do? She cannot make up for her damage, nor can she be warned because the court's authority is the way it is. Article 15 states that the appeal shall be made if the President of the Court has not decided on the objection. The question arises against what or what decision the appeal is then made against. Here's the silence. We have the legal institute of silence of the administration in the administrative procedure, which is why there is a lawsuit pending by the administrative dispute, which is a administrative lawsuit. But can we apply analogy to this situation and treat the President's failure to decide as the silence of the authorities, especially the judges. The appeal is a legal remedy. It has its own process-legal format and in this format contains those elements that are attributed and contains everything that must be appealed in its text to have to be similar to that of the action. It is said here that the appeal will be made unless it is determined. The question arises – against what? The appeal shall only be made against the decision taken in writing, whether it is a procedural decision or a measuring decision of the court, the appeal shall, in any case, be present with permission, or the party shall be allowed to make a statement. What does she do in case the complaint was neat and it was later confirmed, and she was rejected? As for the standard set out in Article 23, we think it should avoid excessive normisation in the law, as it stipulates that the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia for immaterial damage caused by a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time is a responsibility in principle of objective responsibility. It is true and it is essential from the provisions of the Law on Bond Relations. But then it is too high to be normal, because the Republic of Serbia cannot be subjectively responsible. It can only be responsible and only on the principle of objective responsibility. This is something that the SPS parliamentary group considered necessary and extremely well-intentioned to point out in terms of the possibility that, possibly with the amendments that we have submitted, this bill is working on and amending and the sense of improving certain parts of it, notably those of which I have now pointed out. However, in general, this law is not only necessary, this law also implies the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation, this law is also one of the moves you said yourself, and it is a major step forward in relation to everything that has not been done so far, I underline, which has not been done. So, in any case, this law deserves attention in a positive sense and there is no single reason why all MPs in this House do not support this law, primarily and in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we are here because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to protect their interests. I will refer to myself in the end only, when it comes to this law, its provisions and something that seems important to me also, and that is, given how I have already stated the established practice of working in cases, in terms of the right to trial within a reasonable period, we also have enough space to do and in the next period, and I am sure that this ministry, as a proposer of this, will insist, on the observed shortcomings in the practical application of this Isaacon, and that we will have the opportunity to achieve any changes or additions already now, I am confident, convinced, adopted by this bill, to be able to contribute, in a practical sense, not only more effectively, but also more effectively, and thus, to achieve all those objectives that have been declared by this proposal of law, starting from the effectiveness of the judges, the urgency of the judges, thus and the parties, the rights of justice, not only to the justice in due time. In this way, avoid what is a fatal consequence of the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, not only the compensation prescribed by this bill, but also those related to decisions of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg, where the Republic of Serbia pays enormously high amounts precisely because of violations of the right to trial within a reasonable period, and thus also infringements of the right to a fair trial. So, since I will definitely report in the debate when I am declared later, not only as an authorised representative, I would like to point out once again that the SPS parliamentary group will support and vote for this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27092	The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27093	Thank you. Dear President, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I believe that today's agenda is one of the most important legal proposals in the area of Serbia's citizens – the Law on the Protection of the Right to Trial within a reasonable period. I would briefly just refer to the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Judges, which allows judges of the Supreme Cassation Court to continue to work after 65 years, i.e. until 67 years. I believe that this change is good, especially given that even in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, we had that Supreme Court judges work up to 70 years, and perhaps the ministry should have been guided by that practice we had in Serbia. Also, given that judges of the Supreme Cassation Court are elected judges with at least 12 years of experience, that they are the best and most professional judges in the Serbian judiciary and that they should continue to work as long as they are allowed to share justice and to transfer their knowledge to younger colleagues. As for the proposal for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, I think there is a very important law in front of us that will contribute to the principle of economicity and efficiency being respected in favour of litigation parties. It's important that citizens know what is obtained by this law. The main goal is to speed up court proceedings, discharging courts, reducing citizens' complaints before the European Court of Justice. It is important that citizens know that if the judge delays the proceedings, is not up-to-date, judges are long and slow, the party in the proceedings has the right to object or appeal to the President of the Court or to a directly higher court. If the judge who conducted the proceedings has been acting by delaying the proceedings, he will be ordered to do or will be given the case to another judge, if the judge cannot complete the case, and the party will eventually have the possibility of a cash compensation. This is the simplest thing to say, that citizens understand what they're getting through the new law. A mechanism is needed, and that was noticed by the Justice Department, against the unscheduled judges, because the citizens are suffering. As a lawyer, as someone who regularly goes to court, I am extremely pleased that we will pass one of these laws, for the sake of the citizens. Judges are independent and it is very sensitive to deal with their responsibilities in some cases, but sometimes delaying judges is even deliberate or coincides with some unfortunate circumstances in some procedure. I'm going to give you an example, since the minister himself said that sometimes the executive department is like a criminal department in some courts, so I have an example of a proposal to execute from 2007, and I got a decision to execute in 2015. Of course, the executive doesn't even exist anymore, so the trustee can't even be charged. You still have cases where the case lasts for seven, eight years, ends, goes to execution, but no one to execute anymore, the debtor is deleted from the register, there is no more way to charge the trustee or the prosecutor for all the damage he has suffered. I believe that such a legal solution will stand in the way of such a work of judges, and I hope that as soon as possible we will pass the law on enforcement and security, a new one, which will allow the executions to go much faster. The worst part is, these cases have a lot to do with them. I don't want all your instructions, but this is really an eight-year execution between two legal entities and I think it's a disgrace to the Serbian judiciary. Either the trials that are scheduled twice a year, and then you have a problem that when it's a second trial, that the judge is either sick or doesn't come artificial or no witness comes, the lawyer can't approach, so it's scheduled for next year, so once a year, there's a trial in the Court of Commerce, which is really a shame, especially considering that they're economic operators. This kind of thing must not happen, because then citizens with full rights are running cases before the European Court of Human Rights, which the state is losing, and it is right to do so. The rule has been established that justice is slow in Serbia. I believe that this law of the state will finally be able to deal with unscheduled judges and that we need to have an effective judiciary, which we obviously cannot achieve without one of these laws. The citizens have suffered. I think they really suffered the most in 2010, when the cases were lost, when they no longer knew which court was in charge, they were oversolded cases, assigned to other judges, so that in 2010, a lot of those cases contributed to the execution of the cases somewhere in the offices, and that citizens were awaiting trial. Until the hearing has been postponed, as I said, some cases cannot be affected, but some direct judges can participate, punish an expert, punish a litigator, punish a witness, use their procedural powers to give them the Law of Prosecution. With this draft law, citizens, as parties in the process, are given an effective means of combating unsustainable judges and too much tolerant judges. And it's not just this law that's enough. I again appeal to the Ministry of Justice because I believe it is necessary to increase the number of court employees, especially those who carry a great burden, the number of judges, in order to relieve the courts. But I also think that the presidents of the courts should bear the greatest responsibility for the work of their judges. It is devastating that during 2013, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, the state had to pay as much as 831 thousand euros in damages to Serbian citizens, and rightly so, because the courts did not do their job again. By adopting such a law, citizens are finally given a mechanism to fight for their rights and to fight for their judicial proceedings to end within a reasonable period. I really think that in voting day, everyone whose interest is in the citizens should vote and support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27094	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, acting unanimously. 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I ask if any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) We move on to the list of MPs according to the application for a word. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27095	In this debate, we have several draft laws, which particularly highlight the first two – a bill on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period and a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Judges. The New Party MPs will vote in favour of the draft law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, provided that amendments are accepted, aimed at improving a solid bill. So we think it's a good thing we have this bill, which is actually regulated by this matter in our constitutional and legal system. The previous speakers and the promoter have already said a lot of reasons for, so there is no doubt that this process should be entered. Our opinion was that it could have been done in a better way. To avoid criticism, neither Mr Pavicevic nor I are lawyers, and our amendments that have been given, above all to Article 7 of this law, are due to the experience, brains and hands and energy of Vesna Rakić Podinić, who pointed to these failures. In this series of amendments, we practically think that it is better for the appeal at the time of the trial, to express myself in a Colloquial manner, not to be decided by the President of the Court, but rather to be decided by the oldest judge in that court, that his term of office for that part of the work would be one year and that every year the next judge would take over the part. This would create in our opinion less conditions for the abuse of this function, this new mechanism, and we also think that this is in line with the National Strategy for Justice Reform 2013-2018. I hope that the competent ministry, the Serbian government and the committees responsible are familiar with the amendment proposal and that they will have a positive active relationship with these amendments. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Judges is essentially the opposite of this first law, which is a law that is completely unnecessary and which is passed only to extend the work of the two Judges of the Cassation Court, i.e. their functions, according to our knowledge. The two judges are, I think he's one president, and the other judge, who apparently has some merit for the current regime, and the whole law is only passed for that reason. Justifications on why it's being brought say it's the highest court. So what if not the highest court? Why would that only apply to the highest court? I suppose it is important for all courts to judge by the Law of Reasonable Time and in a good way and it is difficult for two years of life to influence the quality of the trial. If there were the best judges in that court, I'd like to see what criteria someone can claim to be the best judge in the Supreme Cassation Court. Maybe they're in the Constitutional Court, maybe they're in the Administrative Court, maybe they're in the First Municipal Belgrade Court. I'd like to get a good explanation for that. This is a lex specialis, this is a law that is passed for two judges and like every lex specialis, let's think of that Gonzales guy, let's remember this one about "Belgrade on Water", let's remember the one about NIS. As soon as a Lex specialise is mentioned in Serbia, citizens know that some fraud is a major, smaller, active, passive, something to cover, some old scam or create conditions for a new one. Anyway, it's not supposed to be done. Reforms have been bad, the ones that have been conducted allegedly for the past ten years. Bad reforms were replaced three years ago by even worse reforms, which are clean cosmetics and where something is happening. I'd like the Department of Justice to propose more laws which, by their essence, are laws such as the Law on the Right to Judges within a reasonable period of time, without being burdened with such lex specialities as the law for these two judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27096	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr Arsic, Honored Minister Selakovic and Honored Guests of the Ministry of Justice, I consider Mr Arsic to be a broken member of 96th and Article 98th. The Rules of Procedure governing the course of the session and the participation of the Members of the People in the debate at the session of the National Assembly. We have received a number of MPs, Mr Arsic, according to the application for a word and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, for example. Article 96 states: "in the basic procedure of opening a general search of each item of the agenda of the National Assembly, the right to speak in accordance with the following order", and then states: "the applicant of the act, the rapporteur of the committee, the president, or representative of the parliamentary group and the MPs in turn, as they support or dispute the proposal, as stated in the application for the word". So, that we have one discussion here – for, against, against, against, against, against, and then in article 98 fine writing, Mr Arsic: "if the debate is referred to by the MPs from several parliamentary groups, the President of the National Assembly gives them the word alternately, so that first the MP who is a member of the least member of the parliamentary group is numbered to the largest, as long as there are registered speakers." Everything's been fine so far. Mr. Zivkovic is an independent MP. He finely reported "for" this bill, and then according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Arsic, the first next should be spoken by another independent MP, and here we have one who applied against this bill, and then again to go for, it could be Dubravka Filipovski, our colleague here, and against going to Marko Djurisic and so on. If we don't follow the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsic, then there's no point in signing up for a word. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure and this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27098	I thank my colleague Pavicevic. But the only official document I get is a list of MPs who prepares the National Assembly's professional service and I work on that list, I can't work on the second list. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: The president determines, Mr Arsic. ) It does not determine the president, it determines the professional services. You don't think I'm sitting here making a list of speakers, do you? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: He writes in the Rules of Procedure. The president does not determine the order of speakers, but works according to the list, and the order of speakers determines the professional service of the National Assembly. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? Yeah. All right. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27099	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, we will consider the amendments that have been tabled in the discussion of the details and be made known about them. When it was mentioned earlier that the draft law supplementing the Law on Judges lex specialis, I must absolutely deny one such claim for several reasons. The first reason is that it is absolutely incorrect that it is any lex specialis, since it applies to both the present and all future judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, therefore, to all those who will become judges of the Supreme Court and in the future. What was the legal uncertainty and violation of potential judicial independence? This was the provision of a member of the Law on Judges, one of the positions of this member who allowed the High Council of the Judiciary to extend the term of office to another two years by arbitration decision of a particular judge of any court. I responsibly argue that the provision, which came before last year in 2013, was deleted, that it was contrary to the principle of judicial independence because it allowed one judge to extend the period of work rather than one. Here the law introduces legal certainty and says – to judges of the Supreme Cassation Court. Why do only these judges, it's being asked as a question? Who doesn't understand, just nice to take and read article 31. Court-order law. I will use a beautiful old formulation which, in my opinion, is one of the best Serbian constitutions in the history of our constitutionality, which is what the 1888 Constitution said. He says, "What is the matter with the Cassation Court?" It's a court that doesn't decide what's done, it's a court of law. When you take and read really Article 31. The Law on the Regulation of Courts, which states: “The Supreme Court of Cassation provides for the uniform judicial application of the law and equality of parties in court proceedings, considers the application of laws and regulations and the work of courts, appoints the courts of the Constitutional Court, gives an opinion on the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and exercises other jurisdiction under a certain law. ” The only court that is a constitutional category, the only court that considers uniform application of law. We belong to the countries of the European continental family of law, and our case law does not constitute an express source of law, but equating the case law which is in the jurisdiction of the Supreme Casation Court is an extremely important, extremely important business. I am free to say, this will be agreed by a large number of judges and the Supreme Cassation Court and other courts that in one period since 2010, the Supreme Court of Cassation has not been quite active when it comes to unifying court practice. Mr. Zivkovic is from Nis. We've had cases where, for the same crime, the exact same factual legal situation, the Court of Appeal in Nis brings one, the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, a completely different verdict. That was the moment when the Supreme Cassation Court was supposed to be involved. The Supreme Cassation Court, to our great satisfaction, has begun to deal with it. If necessary, I will appoint someone who is very well-deserved and will agree, I am convinced, a convincing number of judges, not only of the Casation Court, but of other, lower courts, such as Judge Snezana Andrejevic, Judge Snezana Andrejevic, who runs the Department of Judicial Practice in the Supreme Cassation Court, an exceptional citizen judge. Unfortunately for us, we judge of this caliber don't have much, and when you look at it, the kind of work a judge in the Supreme Cassation Court does, that's not how judges do it in other lower courts. That's what the judges of the Cassation set out somewhere compared to all the other judges. You want me to tell you what else it is that separates them? It is that so far we have not had a case for the Supreme Court judge to be elected a person who has not gone through a career system of advancement exclusively in the judiciary. In 2010, we had cases where judges of appeals were elected by people who had not had the day of the trial before. We never had one in the Supreme Cassation Court. It is a high condition set for judges of the Supreme Cassation Court when they are elected. And I have to react, Mr. Zivkovic, how come you didn't react like this when we passed the Law on the organization of state bodies for the processing of war crimes? That's where we could think about what you said, because it's about having one public prosecutor. This is about all the judges of the Supreme Cassation Court. That you said here it was the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and it wasn't, and I think we have 37 or 38 Supreme Court judges at this point. I think this is the solution, given that the provision of the same member in which the High Council of the judiciary was allowed to extend the work to some judges for another year or two years, and where there is a clear age difference, a clear age condition, far from being able to talk about any Lex speciality. In that case, there were not even explicit legal provisions, there were no criteria of clarity and predictability based on which you could extend someone and not someone. I remember well, when I became a minister in the government and I began to perform this function, that we had cases that, say, the judge of a court would extend the work for another year to complete one of the subjects of great interest to the public, because it upsets the public, and after a year we see that the judge did not finish the case at all. That judge, and when he retired, he didn't finish it. Only the judge to whom the case was assigned completed the case within a reasonable period of time. So, I absolutely don't think there's room here to talk about any Lex special. The drug specialis defines a special case. This is an addition to the Justice Act. My opinion is she's good. I don't think at this point we're ready to go to what is present in other legislation. I told you a little before, imagine, our law enforcement judge retires at 65 years of age. I mentioned Italy a little while ago, until about a year to two days ago with 75 years of life, the judge retired. Now they've cut it to 70. You have legal systems in which the judge's office is a life-long function. There's that, too. Perhaps we will build our legal system and justice system so that someday some of our successors can think about such a step. I think it's gradual to introduce it like this when we have... I'll just draw your attention to one fact. The Republic of Serbia is one of the two European countries that has the Supreme Cassation Court. Of the 47 members of the Council of Europe, only two have the Supreme Cassation Court. The second is Bulgaria. There's one version of the story why we have the Supreme Cassation, not just the Supreme Court or not just the Cassation Court. It's a topic for another session, but I really think that here, with respect to what you've been saying about the bill on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable time frame, there's no room for this to be a Lex specialis. Of course, function is the reason. The existence of the opposition is that it opposes authorities and warns of any problems, shortcomings and mistakes. I respect that and respect the difference of opinion, but I don't think there's any room for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27100	The word has the People's MP Zoran Zivkovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27101	Thank you very much. I don't know why you had to extend your mandate to the war crimes prosecutor, but it's really pointless to ask me why I wasn't against it then. Well, that's your suggestion. You handle this with yourself why you suggest something that you don't think is right. If someone made you do it, I'm not an institution where you can protect your rights. Secondly, once, as you say about yourself, a great lawyer that I explain the difference between the prosecutor, the office of the prosecutor and the office of the judge, that doesn't occur to me. I think you should know that by the difolt, as the Serbs would say. Secondly, the Constitution also mentions the Constitutional Court, not the Supreme Casation's only constitutional category. Finally, which thought, legal, God-knowing or not, gives that extra wisdom to people between 65 and 67? Why is it so important right now to make that change? You said you didn't have enough good judges. That's not the question I'm supposed to be dealing with. It's a question that you should deal with both as a lawyer and as a minister and as someone who says he's conducting reforms. There may be reasons why, but I agree that today is not the day to talk about it. But what is happening, what is the magic that gives people between 65 and 67 this special power that they are particularly capable of performing particularly high, especially responsible state functions? If that's the case, let's all extend to 67 or maybe 70. Maybe there's some new research that says up to 70 we can get. I totally agree with that, just put it in an explanation. Not that you like the Constitution most, from 1888, but give some other argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27102	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27103	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I really have to react first to some things that I believe are more a product of failure than ignorance. The Constitutional Court is not a court, he's called a court. But let's not get into it. You can choose a judge who doesn't have a year's probation, who's never been a judge. Someone would say, fortunately, we don't have that rule anymore that it doesn't have to be a lawyer. Although, sometimes looking at things, believe me, I think it would be good if we had a great economist in the Constitutional Court. So the Constitutional Court is not a regular court, does not belong to something that is the judicial authority. It's the constitutional controller, and we can't compare him to this. On the other hand, I didn't say here that I was against the law that I proposed. No, I'm just saying that law could be called Lex special. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What did you suggest? ) For objective reasons. What did I suggest? Remember that session, what did you vote for it? Obviously, if you have a special authority, some special powers are required. We're not talking about a special organ here. We are here talking about the highest court in the Republic of Serbia. The highest court is a constitutional category. The highest court does not deal with any other court and in a way that does not involve any other court. Therefore, my personal opinion is that this solution is a good solution at this point. There is no ideal solution. Do we have a major problem with the inequality of court practice? I'll tell you, we do, and as a state, we pay extremely dearly. Here's an example for you. Military pensioners. If we hadn't had a widespread practice of all regular courts in one way very unpredictable, very unusual, we wouldn't have had so much trouble paying off that difference in military pensions today. Why? The Supreme Cassation Court, did he react? Yes, but it's very late. He had to react as soon as he saw that in two courts in Serbia there was a difference of treatment in such a matter. What was the Supreme Cassation Court doing then? What was the Supreme Cassation Court doing then? That's a big question. That's the 2010-2011 period. As I told you what the High Council of the Judiciary was doing during that period, what wasn't he doing in disciplinary proceedings? Now Serbia's citizens from Serbia's budget are to pay for someone's negligence, someone's impunity or someone's ignorance. We allow this solution to the Supreme Casation Court, as a drop of the judiciary, as the top of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia, to deal with some issues much more and much better. I think that's good. You know, to enter individual cases of 38 Supreme Cassation Court judges, I pointed out one judge, one woman of whom there are undivided opinions among judges in Serbia that he is an extremely high-quality and good judge and that, unlike me and you, with all due respect, he is one of the women, one of the people you can say is the Sui Genis institution. But it's not good when we have individuals when they're institutions and institutions on paper that don't have that epithet. This allows the Supreme Court of Cassation to strengthen its role as a member of 31. Court-order law. Whether we agree or not, I am responsible for saying that this is the reason for such a proposal and for such additions to the Law on Judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27104	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27105	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, as far as the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges is concerned, I'm in a dilemma. So, respecting all the arguments about the extension of the career of these judges from 65 to 67 years of age, I have a dilemma, given that I respect the arguments that the judges of the Supreme Cassation Court and the profession given require somewhat older judges, that they should have experience, that this experience must, above all, be used to level the trial in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, because various courts, municipal, basic courts, appeal courts make different judgments. My dilemma is bigger because, respecting all these arguments, I was against when Mr Vladimir Vukcevic, the war crimes prosecutor, extended my mandate after 65 years of life. That's when I was against it. Respecting that function, I had a lot of grudges as to why "ex individualis" was being made at the time, as some of my colleagues called it, since the opposition was then unanimous that Vladimir Vukcevic should extend his mandate, i.e. that it lasts even after 65 years of life. I was completely different because I didn't think it was necessary to do it, for the simple reason that he did his job very selectively and in respect of his work, respecting his independence, he didn't report to our government, but he was therefore reporting to officials of foreign governments, or the US Embassy, and for that reason I filed a criminal report for spying, thinking that this kind of generalization with foreign embassies was by our prosecution and our authorities that were inadmissible. For these reasons, I will hesitate until the end of the vote whether I should vote for the justified reasons the minister presented to extend the term of office to judges of the Supreme Cassation Court until 67. What worries me is that my fellow winemaker had two different attitudes. One of them had to do with the war crimes prosecutor, Mr. Vukcevic, and other arguments he used today when it comes to judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation. We have two different archivals, on almost the same issue, so, despite the fact that Mr. Vukcevic is necessary, that the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is necessary, I still believe that it was not necessary to extend the term of office, so that before I gave the same prosecutor a timely and already, with the great flow of time, evidence of the crimes committed and the Serb population in Podrinj, it was 298 civilians, and to this day I didn't get an answer, no matter what his mandate was extended. As far as the trial is concerned, we will support this law, given that there are 240,000 cases older than ten years. So we have 240,000 items that are the same age as those of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal that are not completed. If we have objections to the work of the UN tribunal, we must be objective and such an objection must also be pointed out for the domestic judiciary. No matter what was done, so-called. In 2009 and 2010, our judiciary is slower even than that infamous Hague case, or The Hague tribunal. As regards the objections which are permitted, I will also support that in this law strongly, but also in the current legislation, there are certain objections, and above all I mean the judicial perpetrators, that is to say, the resolutions on enforcement, where the judicial perpetrators collect salaries and property, houses, etc., and that the courts do not resolve objections within the time limit, because each of the parties that are thus threatened are obliged to submit a complaint within five days. That goes for the judges, too. Judges are due to resolve the complaint within five days, however, they do not resolve those objections within a few months, regardless of what the law on enforcement considers to be negligent. I'll also support this for cases that are getting old. The case of Dade Vujasinović has been mentioned here, and lately we have also heard the case of citizens' protectors, not protectors, but protectors, or protected Protector of citizens, who instead of solving problems that do not solve courts, he himself has become a problem and a problem of interpreting certain cases of certain criminal cases. The phrase “freedom without fear ” is often mentioned here. Those who argue against plagiarism and academic integrity should know that the work "Freedom without Fear" and the Law on Freedom were written without fear by Dragoljub Jovanovic. He was the leader of the People's Peasants' Party, and I as some legal follower of the People's Peasants' Party, who has continued its work since 1990, must say that it is not academically congratulating and that it is not nice to have one law written by Dragoljub Jovanovic today to plagiarise, since we have complaints about plagiarists and academic honesty from the same electoral list, so we should have the same arches when it comes to two different political sides. Freedom without fear, by the time we've touched it, should be guaranteed by the courts and I believe that the day-to-day situation is improving. They must guarantee that freedom because today the poor cannot because of the reform of the 2009 and 2010 judiciary almost catch the handle while those who have money and who in time installed their judges and how they pass through our judiciary. It will take a lot of effort, time, work, and sweat to repair the situation that has arisen. This life for freedom without fear, which I, as a democratically-oriented person, fully support, cannot be guaranteed by judges, let's say, the dead judges who have been elected, to whom the Ministry of Justice paid even the cost of the funeral, so after two years they have not checked out from a party's membership, so they choose him, that life for freedom without fear cannot be guaranteed by such judges. They can guarantee some who will appoint this Assembly after making a decision at the High Judicial Council. That freedom, of course, without fear, because I can't guarantee a judge in Prokuplje, against whom a procedure for resolution was initiated, and let's say in that reform, the judiciary was advented, becoming a judge of the Court of Appeal. Such justice and law cannot be guaranteed by judges elected in 2009 and 2010. Many of them are the reserve party composition of certain political structures, i.e. the party of the former regime. There is not enough black in which to paint the situation in the judiciary, which we found in 2012 and therefore, with indignity, I reject all objections that the opposition MPs have pointed out, including my fellow "winekeeper". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27106	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27107	I thank the chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable members of the Ministry of Justice, fully respect the reasons and arguments of the motions for the adoption of these two laws. Since I am not a lawyer, and I cannot competently discuss as part of my colleagues this law, but I will list five reasons that have defined me as a MP to vote in the voting day to vote for the bill on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. First of all, he is in line with the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg. It will allow for faster and more efficient judicial work by all estimates. He protects human rights and the right to a swift and just trial. It will increase citizens' confidence that, in part of the hatch, they will solve their problems and make it possible for the judiciary to work more efficiently. The more efficient work of the judiciary is also envisaged by the national strategy and action plan for its implementation, and it is up to us to control the implementation of the strategy and action plan. I would therefore take this opportunity to specify only a few of the items provided for in the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Justice Strategy from 2013 to 2018. It is, above all, automation and standardisation in the process of implementation, procedural discipline, insistence on the continued education of judges in applying the court procedure to increase the importance of the role of judicial practice and of course the responsibility of judges for quality of work. As regards the proposed additions to the Law on Judges, in my opinion, it is a clear logic in the motion that the working century of the Supreme Court of Cassation extends by two more years, because this highest court finding has been tasked with ensuring a uniform judicial bang as well as the equality of parties in court proceedings. As regards the proposed agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on mutual and protection of classified information, the New Serbia's position is that the National Assembly should confirm all bilateral and multilateral agreements and that this agreement with the Russian Federation on mutual protection of classified information is not under question either. New Serbia will support the proposed set of laws and agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27108	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27109	The Honorable chairman, representatives of the ministry, dear colleagues and MPs, most of our citizens, but also temporary entities, the biggest objection to Serbia's judiciary so far has had to do with the duration of the proceedings. The people say when going to court is going to justice, it is not only meant whether the judge legally applies the law and when he conducts the procedure or when he makes decisions, but rather how long it takes. It is difficult to talk about justice if a claim for justice in one dispute is unthinked for the length of its duration and loses its purpose in a delay. Justice is only justice when it's done in time, of course. The Serbian People's Party believes it is undoubtedly important to pass one of these laws. We have witnessed the number of pending cases in previous years. Despite the changes in many procedural laws and in spite of the plans made to speed up their resolution as seen in the explanation, it did not get very far in solving these problems. As seen in the adoption of all these laws and arguments and everything else, the European Court of Human Rights has made a number of judgments concerning this particular matter. The citizens are rightly dissatisfied. The cost of the procedure is increasing and piling up. Disappointment in the judiciary, of course, is growing, and businessmen, foreign investors complain that such a situation affects the legal security of their business. Serbia is becoming less and less attractive to invest. What we consider important is that, in addition to all the mechanisms for the protection of the right to trial within the reasonable period provided for by this law, the possibility of compensation in the form of cash compensation, as all previous funds are inexhaustible. In the end, this remains the most effective means and the best prevention for impunity in solving all cases. At the end of the line, it remains the last satisfaction to the party when everything else that is envisaged remains without success. In this respect, in front of the SNP, I have submitted an amendment to Article 30 because I believe that, when it comes to the level of compensation, consideration should also be given to the specificity of the case itself and to the level of the dispute, and that in some situations compensation cannot be achieved only to the level of 3000 euros as this proposal provides. Especially when it comes to economic disputes and length of life. Also, I have submitted further amendments concerning the procedure itself in order to clarify and avoid the possibility that one and the same judge who is handling the case, who has been objected against, is also being led by a lack of urgency by such a complaint. So, the Serbian People's Party believes that it must finally be entered into solving the remaining cases, that citizens rightly seek it and that procedures are accelerated, and certainly not at the expense of the truth, and that as soon as possible they move towards amending some procedural laws that led to the freedom to express themselves freely to a stifle in the judiciary. All stories of judicial reform fall into the water if the cases are not resolved, and the costs for citizens in the process are growing. The real reform of the judiciary is a quick and cheap procedure in courts and judgments or a solution based on truth. We have submitted several, according to us, very important amendments and we believe that the government should carefully consider and adopt. The government's position on these amendments will also be subject to a vote under this bill. In any case, any step that can lead to a faster settlement of the case and the satisfaction of justice in the courts, the Serbian People's Party supports and welcomes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27110	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27111	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27112	All right. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. He's not here. Then, MP Nikola Jolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27113	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, at the very beginning of the speech, I will quote several members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia from its second chapter -- human and minority freedom rights. Article 22 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia Position 1. – everyone has the right to judicial protection if he is injured or deprived of any human or minority right guaranteed by the Constitution, as well as the right to remove the consequences of the injury. Article 32. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia Position 1. - everyone has the right to an independent, impartial and law-based court, fair and within a reasonable period of public debate and to decide on his rights and obligations, established doubts which were the reason for the initiation of proceedings, as well as charges against him. Article 36. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia Position 1. – ensuring equal protection of rights against courts and other state bodies, public authorities and autonomous province authorities and local self-government units. Therefore, the state guarantees every citizen an equality but also guarantees the right to remove the consequences if the work of a body through which the state operates has caused a violation of the right, especially if it is first achieved through the work of the laws of this State based on a court. We remember the promise of joining the EU already in 2007 in principle – we will be there because we deserve it, and we never realized that we have to do everything that depends on us in terms of the full compatibility of our social relationship with the EU systems and all other relationships that determine life and the work of citizens from all state systems. That is why this government, led by Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic, is in fact the only government that is truly on the European path, because it does not declare appropriate issues, rights and so on, but fulfils what is required of it, and one example is certainly this bill. We need this law, because decisions must be made without emotion, but based on objective consideration of the situation, and the fact is that the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights are over-booked with complaints and lawsuits, and above all because of the unreasonable lengthy duration of court proceedings and it does not in any way endanger the independence of the courts because it solely refers to the development of a court procedure in time which is the basis and essence of judicial independence, is not and cannot be the subject of this law. My allegations confirm Article 1 of this proposal – the purpose of this law is to provide judicial protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and thus to pre-warn the rise of infringements of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. The judicial protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period also includes an investigation conducted by a public prosecutor in criminal proceedings, and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which entered into force on 3 September 1953 and as soon as Serbia signed its obligations to respect the rights and freedoms, as well as the recognition of the competence of the European Court of Human Rights in Article 6 defined the right to a fair trial exactly as it was given in Article 32. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 13. The Convention defines the right to an effective legal remedy. Anyone who has been injured by the rights and freedoms provided for in this Convention has the right to an effective legal remedy before national authorities, regardless of whether the infringement has been committed by persons acting in the official capacity, which refers to an urgent need to address a decades-old problem in the Serbian judiciary on issues of non-implementation, i.e. non-execution of judicial judgments, and for which the state has suffered major financial costs. It should certainly be pointed out that the norms defining the elements for the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, and the types of compensation, as well as the range for the value of monetary satisfaction, amounting to 300 to 3,000 euros. At maximum cost is the sum of eight monthly average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. Benefits adopted by the adoption of this law are the following, disappear, or in the worst case scenario, the number of cases in front of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg is significantly reduced. Furthermore, the law will allow for the real implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to be tried within a reasonable period of time. A citizen who has been injured gets cash compensation in terms of meeting the sense of injustice that has been done to him and the judiciary becomes more effective. Given that the Constitutional Court is free of trials on the issues of this infringement, and the judgments of the Court of Justice become an effective legal remedy. The right to trial within a reasonable period cannot be achieved directly on the basis of a constitutional norm and it is necessary that the law prescribes a way to protect it. The right to judicial protection, in itself, is not enough, unless it is protected by additional rights that promote its effectiveness. A legal remedy which protects the right to trial within a reasonable period of time shall be considered effective if two conditions are met. The first is that the effectiveness exists in the sphere of normativeity and the second, that it exists in practice. In the state of Serbia, it is the burden of proving both facts before the court and the first step on the legislator, and the final step on courts and public prosecutors. Next said, it is clear that we must follow the life of this law and find new and better solutions based on the Empire. But now and when we pass this law, I am sure Minister Selakovic will accept solutions that improve the law, and in the day of the vote, the SNS parliamentary group will certainly support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27114	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27115	First, let's get together the surprises that - the SNS will support this law, but the joke aside, I think that these two laws, so the draft law supplementing the Law on Judges and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement within a reasonable period, are today brought into the Assembly with certain amendments which, I would say, in a procedural legal sense, open one, to our judiciary, a very significant door. Therefore, they allow citizens through their initiative to protect their rights or interests, which is threatened by the inadmissible court or the prosecution working on a particular case. You know that our practice so far had different solutions that were supposed to come up with something like that. It was a constitutional appeal, so it was a directly higher court to decide. This has changed about every few years, and we have now received this bill which, therefore, gives citizens the opportunity to influence the court through a complaint or appeal when they consider that their right is inadmissible to long, inadequate, sloppy, or whatever legal actions you want from the judge. That's what the Presidents of the Court decide. Now, there are two problems here for me, which I find problematic. First, instead of going as you yourself have said, one to meet the painful point of our judiciary, which is an unequal case law which, there, ministers agree with you, would significantly speed up the proceedings and even the case law, and if we are continental law, I think it is necessary as soon as possible. It would significantly speed up the proceedings conducted in front of our courts. I know it's not easy to implement. I know we have one of those floods in Serbia. We have, I think, over 9,800 regulations in Serbia. It's a huge amount of different regulations, many of them don't apply at all. Judicial practice would help things to happen equally in similar or equal situations. That would speed up the work of the courts. Of course, the President of the Court, any President of the Court today is not worthy of doing these things that you predicted him to do for several reasons. First of all, the President of the Court should be my manager, and he should be a man who is not elected among the judges. So, the first mistake of our system that you're not personally responsible for, is that it's inherited and that the President of the Court is a judge. Secondly, the judge, even in the minimal course of things, has certain cases in which he judges today. It's a smaller number, but it's got a smaller number. A third thing, if we have this political courage, if you want the professional courage to step out of this system that's inherited. So I'm talking now from the position of something that's not orthodox, and I'm consciously doing it in terms of one proposal. So this isn't a political fight. I think the presidents of the judges have a problem. First, the influence of the executive authority on them, their choice, their work is undoubtedly and this is seen today in Serbia. Secondly, the judge is a colleague, the president of the court with judges in court, and he is therefore painful to them. He will never be able to give negative assessments, nor will he be able in this way, unless he personally resents someone, and acts in this way by objecting to that, as you have said and done, he influences the proceedings, because he takes one judge and gives the other judge to solve the case. This brings additional legal uncertainty. If the President of the Court were someone who wasn't a judge, or if a court manager was introduced who wasn't bound by the President of the Court, that would significantly speed up all this stuff and this would be pointless. So, we have a bill that puts the citizen's hand again to fight for his right through legal medicines, complaints and complaints. Instead of doing something through court practice in some way amending laws that would make it impossible for deadlines to last so long that it is legally prescribed how long it can last, to prescribe what acts must be immediately resolved, to prescribe that corruption, organised crime and everything else must not stand in the prosecution's drawers. So we need to turn this thing around, get the law to prescribe how long something's gonna last. if someone does not agree to suffer the consequences of such conduct. No, we've given the citizen another hand to write complaints, to write objections to which the judge who objects you receives, the President of the Court, the cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you. He gets a complaint, he's good with this judge, I don't want to touch him, we're in a group of 670 judges who were in the Serbian Progressive Party. So I'm not going to touch him, I'm going to touch the yellow one from Vlasotin who's not yellow. That's what gentlemen today look like in Serbia in Serbian courts. I'm afraid that's what it'll look like, Minister. I understand the need to improve this thing, I understand that you start and open the door, but this thing as it's written here through a bunch of undefined concepts to the end, through legal standards, through good practice, through emergencies, without a clear qualification and quantification of what we're talking about, so there's going to be a re-opening space for action that comes to mind. I mean, let's say you have in Article 2. - The private prosecutor and damaged as a prosecutor are only if they have pointed out the property-law claim, it is in Article 2 of the Law. The property-legal claim has nothing to do with their status in criminal law and there is no reason why this right would be denied by not imposing an property-law requirement. So I don't understand why they're denied that right and how can this law deny it? We have a number of other things, such as often – in which the right trial is protected within a reasonable period of time; legal standard, reasonable deadline. I guarantee you that for the President of the Court of Justice in my city, a reasonable period is not the same as a reasonable term for me. I guarantee you that. I guarantee it. It is a reasonable time-limit for him, although you have set deadlines under appeal, you have set deadlines for handling complaints, therefore, that we understand these deadlines exist, but unfortunately, the bill continues to be abundant in these vague matters. The President of the Court is required to decide within two months on the objection from the reception. That's what article 7 says if I'm not mistaken, right? Let's just say, Minister, you had a chance to set a shorter deadline here. Why didn't you put on 30 days or 20 days or 15 days? Why does the President of the Court have to have two months to react when you've already let him do that? He says – Objection is dismissed if the absence of any mandatory element of the objection prevents it from being handled, etc., Article 8; do you understand? There seems to be a lot of undefined things. What element? What's that gonna miss? Then we have further, for example, you have up to just like that kind of language stuff, Article 24. - A party can, but it doesn't have to. I have to admit, I think it would make more sense and more correct if you say - the party is right. Why does a party have to, yes, but doesn't have to? There's a lot of those situations. For the Attorney General's Office, too many powers are given within a reasonable period of time in Article 25. There are no cases of dispute, it just writes within a reasonable period. Nowhere has it been defined which are serious injuries, not classified in Article 29, says – In the case of a serious violation of the right, it does not say which injuries they are. Then you have article 34, missing the investigation again, etc. I mean, all in all, the biggest problem seems to me, and of course we're diverged, I think you have the capacity, you have the political will, you have the support of the citizens, to change the current status of the President of the Courts, who in most cases are people who have come to these places with political support, with excellent connections with executive authority and people who are colleagues with the judges, can't run this business properly. Time proved it, Minister. You could've done a really deeper reform in that sense and we could've done some day apart from these procedural things, the law concerning the proceedings, which is normal, stop talking about judges in the Assembly. The assembly is no place to talk about judges. The assembly doesn't have to choose judges. Why didn't you come in to do that? Let the judges pick the judges. I don't need the Assembly to choose judges, that's my attitude. And every time we talk, here you just spoke correctly about the Constitutional Court, you were absolutely right about the case law, you were perfectly correct about over a million pending cases in our justice system that exist today. Very well, Minister, I must say, it's not easy for me to say, but you're taking a good look at the problem. My question to you, a little politically if you will, a little philosophically – why don't you step out of that box when you already have space? Get deeper into that reform. Change things. Not only three months, four months, now he decides, and then he decides this one, instead he decides this one. Change something in this judiciary, over a million backlogs, the slowness of justice for Serbian citizens, cannot be resolved by partial, individual changes in laws at the surface level. This law opens the door, Minister. It opens the door, but it still doesn't solve the problem and you, I hope, expect to agree with me. This law will not, people, be enough to solve both the backlogs and the uneven court practice and the president's behaviour and all that has been inherited for decades. I ask you to be unorthodox too, that you come to this hall once with fundamental profound changes in the judiciary, to stop the Assembly from choosing judges and prosecutors, to move it into their organizations, to have them choose their own people, that the President of the Court can't be a judge. He can't, first he doesn't have time to be a judge or a judge. Okay, that's my attitude. You tell me, what's wrong with that? There are negative things, I agree, but time has shown that it doesn't work, time. Time has shown and practice has shown it's bad, I think. So, as far as the law on the addition of the Law on Judges is concerned, I think it's been said a lot, I'm just going to say that this law is being passed so that the judges of the Supreme Casualty Court can extend their working time for two years, this law is passed because of a few people. This law is passed because of several people who are absolutely in the line of this policy and these authorities and everyone in the judiciary knows it and this law must then be applied to the entire judiciary and not just to the Supreme Cassation Court. Why don't you apply this to all the judges? Is their practice weaker? Is the weight of their work smaller? Is it easier for them? I don't think so. I convey to you, Your Honor, what the people of the judiciary say. I've put out some ideas that you may not like, but these are suggestions, and you tell me how far we're going to go and how far we're going to go because, by my estimate, we're going to have to run any positive changes in the judiciary at all, at this rate, these changes in regulations that are almost 10,000, over 40 years, it's going to take us to get to the green branch, as they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27116	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27117	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is one replica from one of the black comedy of Duško Kovacevic when he says – try it on someone else to see what it will look like, so when we see it, we'll think about it. I appreciate the enthusiasm and political will and the willingness to admit mistakes and that something has changed and respected colleague Stefanovic, and I just don't know about any country where the president is not a judge, and that we're talking about countries that are at our level of civilization, at all cultural, legal progress. Any State in which a special Law on the Protection of the Right of Judgment has been adopted within a reasonable period of time, but each State provides that the grounds of this, and complaints or complaints, shall be decided by the President of the Court. I could agree with the distinguished predecessor that there is a different solution somewhere. In the draft law, we have had a public debate for an extremely long time for one very important reason, and that is because we have had the most difficult cooperation with experts from the Council of Europe. Not a single moment of determination for the President of the Court to be the one who has these powers has been questioned, therefore, by a single moment. Now, in order to make it clear, therefore, that the Law on Judges provides for, that is, a body of legal provisions concerning the judiciary, the judiciary predicts that the High Council of the Judiciary when proposing to the National Assembly for the President of the Court, it is under obligation to avoid arbitration to propose a candidate. The High Council of the Judiciary sits half the majority of the judges. That's the first thing. Another thing, let's say, among countries that have such legal solutions is one Germany, there is one Italy, there is one Czech Republic, one Slovakia, Slovenia. According to the SEPEZ report, therefore, the advisory body of the Council of Europe, which speaks of the efficiency of the judiciary, one of the most qualitative and most effective judiciary in Europe, is the Czech judiciary. Dear colleague Stefanovic, do you know who chooses judges in the Czech Republic? In the Czech judge, he chooses a minister of justice. That our judicial system is as stable as it isn't, of course, choosing it by its own means. He gets a list of candidates from a professional body that conducts a selection of candidates. I'll tell you right away, look at Article 4. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says very clearly that Serbia's authorities are legislative, executive and judicial and that relations between the branches of authorities are based on the relationship between balance and control. It's that American "checks and balances", it's no good that it doesn't exist. It's just that there's no such thing as a relationship. That would put us in a position tomorrow that the National Assembly can't pass any law relating to judges or that should be applied by judges. You're entering a contradiction. Even if we accept the idea first and only in the world that the President of the Court should not be a judge, even if we accept it, then how can we accept the idea that judges should choose judges? Look, for example, a country in our environment, until yesterday, a country with us, Montenegro. In the amendments to the Constitution, in the opening of Chapter 23 in EU accession negotiations, they have led to changes forming in the High Council of the judiciary by most non-judgmental people. So most of the members of the High Judicial Council in Montenegro are not judges, and be careful, the country that opened negotiations to join the EU. You can check freely, here, look at the Constitution of Montenegro. Let's go back to what is beautiful and, of course, the final position of that Article 4 says: The judicial authority is independent, but when you take and interpret an entire member, you see in what, how and in what way. Mio, we need to find a medium solution, a balanced, balanced solution. What is a balanced solution? Until 25, 30 years ago, we were the state in which the Justice Department was the center of the judicial administration. So, we can just say that the Ministry of Justice, when it comes to the judiciary, was stronger in some way than the National Assembly. And that's not a good solution, and we'll agree absolutely. Now the slaughterhouse is going to a completely different area, which is that neither the executive nor the legislative authorities, when it comes to judicial authority, have absolutely nothing to do with it. I think it's no less a bad solution than the one mentioned earlier. If the cradle of modern democracy in the United States, and is, if the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial matters is implemented somewhere, was implemented there, but the system survives on the system, that is, on the principle of mutual control and balance. I would not say that in countries where there is a member of the former Yugoslavia, as well as Central European and Western European states, a solution in which the President of the Court has the right, therefore, has the jurisdiction to act in cases of doubt that there is a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period, that it is something in these countries that has violated judicial independence. The law makes it very clear what the President of the Court can intervene in. I think this is a good solution for the judge. I'll tell you how. If the President of the Court sees it on the monthly report, and I have just talked about it, and I hope that, although it is the power of the minister, since it is a sublegal act, the Rules of Procedure, I will indeed propose that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure should be made public in visible places, on the advertising boards, if you want on the website of the courts the monthly results of each court's work and that every citizen can see how judges of that court work, because citizens pay those judges, because judges differ from all other public office holders because they have to retire, they have the irreparability of their functions. That's good. These are the achievements of the modern democratic world. Like I said, function doesn't just give privileges. She imposes a lot of responsibility. I can agree with you in one thing to the end, is the way we manage the courts that we have de facto, I'm not talking about the law, is it good? It's not good. All our judges were first trained to judge, not to handle collectives that have five, to say Belgrade's First Basic Court 145 judges. Just so you know everyone's name and name is a problem, let alone how he works, how professional he is, how capable he is of doing that job. You said -- the president of the court is sick to his colleagues, and that's why he shouldn't be someone who's going to be involved in this. Well, how come the President of the Court is painful to his colleagues, and members of the High Council of the Judiciary, who are mostly from the judge's order, are not painful to the judges? Remember that the solution to the previous and constitutional and legal system that we had, which is the existence of the Great Supreme Court of Serbia's grand personal council, has just shown these shortcomings, as the people would say - crows do not take out their eyes. This led to the decision of judges not only in disciplinary proceedings. You've got one lawyer, you've got one professor, you've got a president of the Assembly's Justice Committee, you've got a minister in charge of justice affairs as members of the High Council of the Judiciary. I say responsibly – we can talk about our Constitution that there is no best solution, that it has excellent solutions, that are political qualifications – let us, as it is, apply it to its fullness. We'll prove that every system, when you give it a good chance, can work. Do I think all the presidents of our courts are extraordinary? You said one thing and I really have to react there, that these are people who are absolutely on the line of this government. I can list to you a large number of judges who were officers of the court's duties at a time when your party was in power and who were later here in this assembly, with this parliamentary majority, elected presidents of the courts. What's that line with this or that power? I'm sorry you weren't in the O.R. earlier when I was with another colleague, and when I told him – the Law on the Completion of the Law on Judges refers to all the judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, and the convincing majority, the two-thirds majority was elected at a time when neither the SNS was in power nor I was minister of justice. Is this giving me, you or anyone else the right to place any political labels on these people? Absolutely not. I am convinced that the convincing majority of judges in Serbia are doing their job well and doing it correctly. There are things that lead to serious problems in the work of the judiciary, and for which we all share responsibility together. There was talk of bad procedural laws. They were not brought by judges, brought by this or that parliamentary majority in the National Assembly. But that's the element that, unfortunately, we can't use in a valid way. The National Assembly is reporting to the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. The MP gets the opportunity once a year, that the President of the Court asks everyone, both pleasant and unpleasant questions. And something I can't say or agree to or disagree with. My opinion is that the National Assembly, as a representative of the holders of sovereignty, which are citizens of Serbia, must have contact with both the judiciary and the executive authority. The judge is independent in his free conviction when making a decision in a specific case. But just before someone said nice -- that judge is in Serbia's power. The government must not and cannot be born of citizens. If there's no contact between government and citizens, then it's either autocracy, then it's oligarchy, then it's something that I absolutely think we'll agree on, which is not good. Imagine, according to a decision on the number of judges in Serbia's courts brought by the High Judicial Council, it is scheduled to be 3,096 judges. It's not a big number. I'm not saying it should be bigger or smaller, it's other things, but I want to tell you that by yesterday you had a situation, which means 10 years ago, that the National Assembly was choosing judges. Some people think it's a better solution. At that time, judges were elected publicly, here, in the National Assembly, and 250 MPs were declared. Today when we talk about the election of judges to a permanent judicial office, it means not the first choice that goes through the National Assembly, but whether, for example, the judge of a basic court will be elected to a senior court, it is behind closed doors in front of 11 people. My opinion is that it's much more important when we talk about the choice of judges who are criteria for choice than who chooses them. If you have a clearly defined rule of law on what must be fulfilled by a particular candidate in order to be elected judge, it can be as in Finland, chosen by the President of the Republic, which, you know, we gave ourselves the right because we were probably not many years earlier when neither your party nor my party was in power, but we gave ourselves the right to conduct experiments in certain segments of our judiciary and to apply solutions that you will not find in a well-developed democratic state in which there is a rule of law and legal certainty. In the United States I mentioned earlier, you have countries where people choose judges in the election. So, citizens go out and pick judges, because it's power. Of course, you and I both know that our judges would raise their voices against it and say that it is contrary to our legal tradition and we would be right, not at all slow. But we need to establish a system of mutual control and balance. It's the only way to establish some functionality, a good functionality of a state that citizens won't feel on their skin. Now let me tell you -- I think we need to change a lot more, a lot of what bad habits are, in the way we handle the court. You mentioned the manager or the manager of the court. I'm not happy with how this institution has come to life with us at all. Few are the courts in which it works. You weren't here before when I was talking about us going to creation in one town. Why, say, Chachak? Here's the thing, Chuck. I think it's because it's a good example. Why the Cachak, in which we have the Criminal Court, the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court of Commerce, and the General Public Prosecutor's Office, is six judicial bodies. We have six special services, six accounting services, six information and communication services, six public procurement services. Why don't we have one that would cost us less, which would work more efficiently and which one of the city's highest court directors could handle? I think that's a good solution. I think the National Assembly is the place to discuss the work of the courts, because unlike the MPs elected by the citizens in the elections, the relationship between the judges and the citizens, for which they exist and for whose benefit, has become more and more lost in us, in the past few decades. Look at what I said. Montenegro opened Chapter 23, began negotiations in that chapter with the EU, they changed the constitution. In that constitution is this. Look, let's say, some other countries of our environment that are longer members of the EU. They're going back to these solutions that we have in law today, and we want to reverse ours because we don't apply them in their full scope. I'm sorry, if I've been a little bit more extensive, but I think you've raised a series of questions where, every honor of courage, on the suggestions put forward, you haven't hit the center, but you haven't missed a target in some things, and that's good. I'm glad we can find some common ground in these things. Last thing I want to look back on, I already mentioned, look at article 31. Court-order law. You will see what it is that the Supreme Cassation Court separates from other courts in Serbia. The problem of unequal court practice is something that will become more and more obsessing over our heads if we don't take care of it. If we don't solve it ourselves, much more expensive, much more painful and much more complicated for us, it will be resolved by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and the question is how much, if you want the budget, will be able to handle something like that. I don't think so. It is precisely a large number of performances before the European Court of Human Rights, which existed, and related to the Republic of Serbia, was caused by the poor functioning of our country. In some situations, I can freely say the unserious functioning of our country. Imagine, he won't go out and do his job, so what does he get paid for? Which is why he's here, is that the job we love? It's not a job we love, but it's a job someone does. Someone's living off it. There are many topics, I hope you will support what I just said in every court on the ad board, on the website the monthly results of each judge's work. This is well considered when the VSS chooses and selects a judge, then each of you MPs can ask the president of the council and the members of the council whom you chose? If you have a judge who has the worst results of working in court 12 or 24 months ago, which cannot be asked by the MP High Council, who can ask and should ask both the Minister and the Government and everything. Why can't he ask the High Council? What the High Council is doing today was the responsibility of the National Assembly until yesterday, the National Assembly is rather interested in getting answers to such questions. I agree with you that the most common success of the President of the Court depends on our personal will and qualifications. You'll see one thing, you know that's also being considered in the National Strategy for Justice Reform, I'm convinced that when the National Assembly comes in that time, it will form a commission to discuss any constitutional changes. It is provided for in particular in Chapter 23 and it is our obligation to make changes to the Constitution in accordance with certain things you said, we do not avoid it. What's my personal commitment and I end up with, is let's take a solution that's good in a regulated country where law and law rule and delivers good results. Just don't ask us to reach any more solutions that are unverified don't let our judges be treated as parts of an experiment, and let us provide them with every condition that the moment they decide on the case, they decide impartially and independently. It's something I'm going to agree to not only while I'm in this position, but also as a lawyer, and you're a graduate lawyer, and I hope we agree on that, which we're going to insist on as much as possible. Just to decide by law and by what the judge in the interpretation and to apply that law, he thinks he should decide. If there is a higher incident, there is an emergency legal remedy and there is a need to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27118	Mr. Stefanovic on what grounds? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I was mentioned twice. I honestly don't see the basis, but given the length of the minister's presentation, I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27119	The minister spoke for over 22 minutes. I'm reporting from this replica to make certain things better understood. There was nothing offensive and it doesn't have to be offensive to the Rules of Procedure. I think there's a lot of examples, and that's what you said. To be clear, the Czech example is not a good example because the minister of justice, however, is elected by the judge. Of course, then someone evil would say – it is best that the executive authority chooses judges and have the most effective judiciary. I don't think we should always watch what's successful with someone else, because someone else has a longer legal tradition and a different legal tradition, has different social relations, a different economy and a different kind of dispute being conducted as you know. So we don't always have to run away from having something that maybe someone else doesn't have if it's something useful, based on the law and based on clearly defined criteria as you said. That's where I agree with you. I think our judges are great judges. With these suggestions that I'm giving you in terms of some public debate, the micro-debates we've actually had, I want to help these judges get rid of the feelings of pressure, whether this man is good with him or with this, and he's the same judge, so he won't be if he did this or did, whoever he is in power. That's why I said, if you won't or can't, what you say is too unique a case, to be a judge president of someone who isn't a judge, then we can combine with an existing system of directors or a court manager. To separate things, about who does what, how many objects and what is the efficiency of the trial itself. Just a trial and you said it well was a matter of the judge. They need to judge, not do other things that essentially, the practice shows, they haven't solved the problem. I don't think it's a good thing Montenegro doesn't have most judges in their High Council of Justice. I think it's a bad solution, as I think the argument is that many who are now presidents of the court have been elected to that position during our power. There was Elena Trivan, there were many others, so now they're with you. That doesn't solve anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27120	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27121	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have carefully chosen which example of the state I shall set. I could have referred to it with the same way as the judge's choice, let's say one of Austria's. We talked earlier about the Constitutional Court judges, in Austria, who is the cradle of the modern constitutional judiciary in Europe, the judges of the Constitutional Court do not have to be graduates. Here I really have to react, you know how, no one can tell me that Serbia is a state that has no legal and state-of-the-art tradition. I mentioned the Czech Republic, it founded New Age statehood almost 100 years after Serbia in Czechoslovakia. Let's see what the solution is, say, in Slovenia. We were in the same country for about 80 years, we formed a country nearly 100 years ago, we had a constitutional and legal tradition much tighter and longer, and in that same Slovenia, I think parliament chooses judges. I'll check, don't hold my word, but I'll take your pick. What I said, I insist, is much more important what are criteria for selecting judges, incomparable. Someone meets the criteria, someone doesn't. One more thing, I'm responding to what you said just before comparing the judges and the presidents of the courts to the people of the world of politics, I absolutely don't think it's possible. I absolutely think it's inadmissible and inappropriate for a simple reason because they're people who are within the limits of their abilities, but they do their job honestly and well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27122	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27123	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenović, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and the Honorable Mrs Kuburovic, the proposal for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time after our interpretation and our analysis wants an effective remedy to protect the parties from the unjustly long duration of the court proceedings. We think it's a good thing because an unwarranted length of court proceedings is one of the kinds of violations of the right to a fair trial. That is why MP Zoran Zivkovic here suggested that we would vote for the adoption of this proposal, but with, I think the necessary debate on the amendments we have prepared. Apart from this, this bill is also in line with the National Strategy for Justice Reform for the period 2013/2018. years as well as European standards. These are all reasons why a man should consider voting for this bill. However, we have submitted 35 amendments to Minister Selakovic's proposal for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time to make a good bill even better. I'm going to try to make this attitude and our amendments very precise right now. The subject of our proposals and amendments is, above all, but not only, Mr Selakovic, a member of the 7th proposal of the law concerning the submission of objections and proceedings under appeal, and this is why, respected gentlemen, the National Strategy for Justice Reform for the period from 2013 to 2018 is foreseen, you should tell if I am mistaken, Ministers of Justice, that the National Assembly is excluded from the election process of the President of the Court. It is written in the National Strategy, and we believe that this is a good solution because the election of the President of the Court by a political institution, and the National Assembly is a political institution and it is a central political institution in our constitutional system, we say the sanctuary of political life, has had a negative impact on the independence of courts, and we appreciate that definition in the strategy. We think it's very good. The problem is that with Article 7 contained in our court, Mr Selakovic, this bill unwarrantedly increases the powers of the President of the Court. We offer differently, I think, and a better solution, that we replace these four positions that you have proposed with the content that we have proposed to the amendments to Article 7. Zoran Zivkovic has submitted one amendment. I've submitted one amendment. These amendments, gentlemen, are completely changing the content of all four articles of Article 7. I'm not going to read what our proposal is right now. I'm sure you've had time to read it already because we've sent the amendments on April 30th. Five, six days is enough to read, so perhaps, Mr Selakovic, to tell us now whether you accept at least one part of our 35 amendments, first of all those concerning Article 7 of this law. Please, gentlemen and Mr Selakovic, our 35 amendments have been prepared all the way to one outstanding law professor, as the president of the party, or a kind of lawyer, as the Prime Minister, Mr Selakovic, or our amendment has been prepared, as Aleksandar Vukic said here in the Assembly, quotes - the distinguished law professor and president of the New Party Council, Professor Vesna Rakić Vodalic. I think, dear gentlemen and Mr Selakovic, that today is an opportunity to show the respect you show in nice words in part, Minister Selakovic, by adopting amendments prepared for us by such a respected law professor, Vesna Rakić Vednelic. In other words, let's turn the glues, gentlemen, into action and make a good law, Mr. Selakovic, even better. One note for you, you here referred to the Minister of Justice of the Czech Republic when you said he was involved in a certain process. I'm a little surprised – how is it that you, as justice minister today, do not respond to serious violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27124	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27125	... When the MPs of the SNS are favored, they can speak when they pass the Rules of Procedure and beyond the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27127	One sentence, Mr Selakovic, would be enough not to compare with the Czech Minister of Justice as a whole. Thank you. (Zoran Babic, from the site: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27128	Here you go. The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27129	I always advocate dialogue in parliament and dialogue on the political scene of Serbia, and when I think we are making progress in this process, that we have come behind the white ballots to some concrete proposals, what happened just before, where really looking strictly at the Rules of Procedure, he was violated for five minutes. In a complete speech by the previous speaker, the esteemed colleague Pavicevic, the Rules of Procedure are broken because the agenda point is not a esteemed and respected teacher, is not a talk about anyone individually, and by saying that it is not a subject of the agenda I am not reducing value and I am not reducing what a respected teacher is and what it means in the Faculty of Law and not at all as a lecturer, but it is not a topic of the agenda. If someone can't talk about the law, if he can't talk about the law, so he better shut up than he's gonna break the Rules of Procedure by talking about everything, not about what's the right point of the agenda, and besides, if we don't respond to something like that, then why are the sparks thrown at the SNS that's supposed to be favored? What's her favorite? By patiently waiting to talk about the agenda point. Take a look at the ranks in front of colleagues Pavicevic. So much about how much they care about the speed and urgency of our judicial system and how important it is to adopt the Law on the Protection of Justice within a reasonable period of time. Then who's breaking the Rules of Procedure? A Serbian Progressive Party as a Proposer of this Law, as someone who patiently waits and listens here to all speakers who participate in the discussion or someone who violates the Rules of Procedure by talking about something that is not the point of the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27130	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27131	... and insults the National Assembly and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27132	Since it was a replica, I have no reason to answer. Pavic, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Arsenovic, Honored Minister Selakovic and Honored guest, Mrs Kuburovic, are two things I want to say here as a replica of Mr Zoran Babic's speech. I believe, gentlemen, that it should be an extraordinary honor for both the MPs and our guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia when we are in a position to consult on the debate on a bill of law, the most professional people in our country, respected gentlemen, and Mrs Vesna Rakic Vodalić, President of the New Party's Council, is exactly the kind of person, respected gentlemen, Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and not in my opinion, respected gentlemen, in the opinion of Zoran Zivkovic, in the opinion of other people, but, Mr Arsenović, to convey to Mr Babic and, in the opinion of SNS, Mr Alexander Vukic, who confirmed this during our debate on the construction project "Belgrade on Water" in this Assembly, gentlemen. I was quoting that. I quoted his words. Well, where are we going to get a better situation than to have professional people say about one bill and even better, that the government adopts their proposals and opinions, gentlemen. The Rules of Procedure, Mr Arsenović, were violated until you chaired the session when the SNS MPs were given the right to pass by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the Law on the National Assembly, and before other MPs who, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenović, Mr Babic, Mr Selakovic, have the right and I believe that this should be recorded here, Mr Arsenović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27134	The word has Minister Selakovic, then the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27135	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Very short. We've received, of course, amendments that have been submitted to this bill. We will carefully consider every amendment. Also, about what the Prime Minister said, I am joining and it is undeniable that Mrs Vesna Rakic Vednelic is one of the authorities of legal science in Serbia and as someone who comes from the Faculty of Law, where she has worked for a time, I was not lucky to have her teaching me because she was no longer working at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, but I can only say one thing that should always be in mind. First and foremost, what I mentioned earlier, and that is that we have drawn up this bill with the most intense co-operation with the experts of the Council of Europe and every sentence, every point, every point, that in this final form of the proposal that has been presented before you, is in line with it. Of course, the law was co-operated with people from both academic and judicial spheres, which is very important. It's not good, the experience tells us, to trust lawmaking only to the theorists, as it's not good to trust him only to the practitioners. But given this fact in your mind, we will consider your amendments with special attention. I'm sure there will be something between them that will be accepted. I'm just asking you all together, like I said before, not to make unverified solutions and to check them live in our practice by our experiment system. Give something that in some legal systems that are comparable to ours, which are similar legal traditions, which are similar to socio-political developments in the past, that such solutions that have been checked in practice similar to our systems are applied to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27136	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27137	Since we are about expertise, and I am the least invited to talk about Ms. Rakic's expertise, because it is not my profession, but I appreciate the opinion of excellent lawyers, both Mr. Selakovic and Mr. Vukic, and I believe the word and generations of students who have passed through Mrs. Rakic's classroom, who will speak best about it, but I would prefer that the previous five minutes have been spent to talk about solutions rather than the author of the solution. The author of the solution is spoken of by his works and that is undeniable, her works and it is undeniable. But let's put on a hundred solutions and talk about what's been proposed, not ask the question, will it accept you because someone who is like that suggested it? Let's talk about solutions. We didn't hear that, Mr. Pavicevic, on your side. On the other hand, a gentlemen's rule in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I believe that Mr. Arsic will now apply it, so, for example, instead of Mrs. Natasa Vukkovic, who is not there, it is likely that Mr. Balsa Bozovic will speak. Will that be a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Will you report back then and say that the Rules of Procedure have been broken? No, you won't, because you have a selective way of dealing with the Rules of Procedure. There is a gentleman's right to replace fellow Members within the same parliamentary group, as there is one gentleman's right that when you weren't in the O.R., you came, that the chairman still gave you his word. So, these are some rules in the Assembly, but I believe, since you are a fellow MP for a year, there are more experienced here, there are impressions here that are in the National Assembly than you, Mr. Arsic, 12, 13 years old, and even more, will learn Mr. Pavicevic, I'm sure, and these unwritten gentlemen rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27138	Thank you. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and the Honorable Guests, Mr Cosic, and above all, Mrs Kuburovic, never, gentlemen, has happened that I am not in the O.R., so that after that I come to the O.R. and ask the President to give me a word past the rules and get the right to say a word. I would never, gentlemen, have done so, nor would I, respecting the rules of our Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, ask for the right to say that I was skipped in the order of the declared Members of the People. Never, dear gentlemen. The second thing, Mr. Selakovic, I was fine at the beginning of my speech and told you - the bill wants an effective remedy to protect parties from the unjustly long duration of the procedure. I also said, and now I'm suggesting this thing because I noticed that perhaps you didn't listen carefully, that the proposal is also in line with the National Strategy for Justice Reform in 2018 and with European standards, and all of these were reasons for me to say that I would vote in favour. So just so you don't miss it, we recorded those things. Then, gentlemen, I told the Members of the People that our proposal for a solution was substanceful in the 35 amendments. Now Mr. Babic, Mr. Arsic, expects me to talk about amendments instead of in principle today. I can't talk today about amendments and concrete solutions when there's a principle debate, gentlemen. On Thursday, I prepared for the amendment debate, and in case amendments are accepted, in case amendments are not accepted. For all 35 amendments, I have prepared myself, gentlemen and Mr. Babic, with a very concrete and, as I said, precise proposals for a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27140	Time, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27142	As you insist on consistency in the application of the Rules of Procedure, I can say that either you or Mr. Zivkovic have not been properly declared to be present in the National Assembly. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I am talking about application for word. ) You are not properly reported because here your application is for a word, there are two names and one signature. You are an independent MP, and you cannot subsidize anyone's right to sign on your behalf, or you or you colleagues to Zivkovic. These are the rules that have been introduced, Mr Pavicevic, before you became a member of the Parliament. I ask you, since you are asking us to adhere consistently to the Rules of Procedure's application, that in the future, you will submit an independent application for a word, because it says here – independent MPs. You want the right to breach the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27143	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsic, Honored Minister Selakovic, Honored Gosco Kuburovic and Mr Cosic, I believe that more members of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure have been injured. Members 106, 107 and 108, Mr Arsic. Here's an argument, Mr. Arsic. First of all, Mr. Arsic, you have now commented on one part of my presentation. You have no right as chairman of the National Assembly, and Article 100, here, I see that it is suggested, you do not have the right to comment on the presentation of the previous speaker before you apply for the word, move to your place, where MPs sit, for example. SNS, and someone else replaces you as chairman, Mr. Arsic. So, it was your duty to register neatly, to have someone else start chairing the session and to discuss it finely as a MP here. Secondly, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have applied for a word according to the rules applicable in this National Assembly. Those rules, Mr. Arsic, mean that there's a form here called a word application. At the bottom of that application form for a word, Your Honor, I know it as a picture like this, I don't have to have it in front of me, it says - a parliamentary group. That means one person has to sign for all those reported. Dear Mr. Arsic, there is no room for signing for independent MPs. You, when you provide a form in which the bottom will be written – an independent MP, from that moment on, Mr. Zivkovic and I will sign on special papers. Since we now have a form like this, Mr. Arsic, we sign and apply for a word according to the rules. Please do not warn us in the future of breaking the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27144	Mr. Pavicevic, I spoke to you by adhering to article 108. The Rules of Procedure - on the order of the National Assembly session, the president, that is, the chairman of the National Assembly. Like I said, you're not properly reported for discussion on these agenda points. To prove this to you, and please, then consult with a fellow MP, Petrovic Milan, he will explain to you how independent MPs apply. The same form, which you claim to see as a picture, is filled and beautifully written – an independent MP. And here I see that someone for the parliamentary group, I can't read, sign, and the names of Mr. Zoran Zivkovic and yours are. When you become a parliamentary group, I don't mind if there are two names and one signature here, but from now on, each of you fellow Members of Parliament who are on your own are applying to this form, you cross down here a parliamentary group, you write here that you are an independent MP, a little course I have to give you, you put your name and name on it, and you sign up. Such forms were by 2001, it seems to me, July or August the month, when MPs themselves checked in, could, and there was fellow Shormaz, and he was doing it as an MP who applied himself, etc., there are those of us who were MPs at the time. So, in the future, I'm asking you to do that. Also, I ask the service of the National Assembly as only three MPs can speak independently in the course of a debate to record the time when you submit your application for a word. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: So, can I draw? You can cross everything, but no one can sign for you. (Zoran Babic, from the city: Collateral, rule of law. ) (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I procedure, colleague. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27146	Bozovic, will you let your colleague Toskovic go? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27147	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here someone is jeopardizing the dignity of the National Assembly, and we see who's threatening it. I think that should prevent verbal violence here against this assembly. Someone complains that he can't get a word in, and there's always a monologue here by certain MPs, and they're attacking those who don't even sign up to speak in the National Assembly. So we can no longer allow two, three people to endanger the congregation in such a form, that, behold, we have a variety of scenes. Well, I'd like to pray in some way to prevent this from happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27148	I thank my colleague Toskovic, but for not stating which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken, I am not obliged to give you answers. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished guests in this house, respected fellow MPs, we have two laws before us, the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judges within a reasonable period of time and amendments and addition of the Law on Judges. What we have in our deep conviction is the intention when it comes to the law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, is something that is unquestionable. So we fully support the intention, and we'll explain later whether it applies to practice as well. However, what is an amendment to the Law on Judges there is a very questionable intention for us, and this law certainly will not support DS. When it comes to the law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, intent is one and the theory is one, but practice is something else entirely. Both things should be considered when writing such important laws. After the first reading, and very, as the law itself would say in very detail, I read your bill, and it associated me in the first reading of one thing, that you personally did not write this law. Here, for a few reasons. You didn't write it for a simple reason because no such legal void would happen to you, or to anyone, if we consider your guests today. But what's also important is for me to have a few dilemmas today, and that I personally use the opportunity to if you have the understanding that these few dilemmas and you personally remove, given that you are defending the law that you yourself have proposed. As far as terminology is concerned, after the first reading, we come to the conclusion that this law is either misspelled, or that it is poorly translated, given that certain terms are quoted a detailed explanation, then I quote the examination procedure, then I quote clearly unfounded, and all of this proposal, in Article 5, in Article 7, in Article 8 and in many other articles, is not recognized when it comes to, as you yourself have said, our legal tradition. With that in mind, we think that you personally, and I believe that, since I know the institution you're coming from, that I know that these things happen to you, for example. They wouldn't steal these mistakes, and that's why it's important that you, for example, We make these things right in the amendments, if we all care about the intention of this bill. When it comes to something that you've had a chance to say several times today, which is respect for the Constitution and the law, and you said, I quote you now, you said -- we need to learn to respect the Constitution, which is what it is, that we respect it fully, and I totally agree with that. But have we broken it countless times over the last three years, and you also know it best, and not only in the last three years, to be completely open, in the past 10 years, there have also been violations of the Constitution and disrespect of the Constitution. When will our legal tradition be based on respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? If he can be better, we've had a chance to talk years ago, we'll probably have a chance to talk about it in the future, but the way we have to respect ourselves. With that in mind, contrary to Article 32. Serbia's constitution does not meet the guarantee of the legal and impartial decision prescribed by the constitution. Here is why, several times today, we have had the opportunity to hear it, and that is probably the biggest complaint today, it was also spoken of by Mr Pavicevic, or Mr Borko Stefanovic, Mrs Vučković, but that is what is most insolent. No, because it's bad in theory, it's because it seems completely different in practice. The request for the protection of the right to trial shall be decided within a reasonable period by the Presidents of courts whose choice is politically and subject to influence, thus also by the executive authorities. That's what's very, very controversial for us. Especially the presidents, they can re-delegate that which leads to another question, which is the objectivity of the procedure itself. The President of the Court shall, under the provisions of this proposal, have the power to confiscate the subject of a judge who, of course, violates the right of the party to a natural judge and thus the right to a fair trial. When it comes to these things, is it possible, with all the examples you've given, I've listened very often to you and I haven't been in the O.R., I've listened to you very much, with all the examples you've given yourself, whether it's absolutely certain, that in theory there may even be abuse. Yes, and you yourself know the situation when it comes to practice in our country. I think it is very important that we remove these things and these dilemmas in order to propose or adopt together those amendments proposed either by DS or by some independent MPs or by some other parliamentary group, so that this intention of this law will live, too. Please, one more sentence. In the complexity of the process, we also have some of our concerns that I sincerely believe that you and I have not been subdued again out of deep respect for both you personally and towards the institution from which you have come to some executive political function. I think it is very important that we remove these things with common efforts so that really this law that you said yourself in line with the Council of Europe will be fully applied and never in that case be questioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27150	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27151	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really believe there are examples, but I don't know that in Serbia it's been long since the minister sat down and wrote the law. It's good to see I didn't write the law. First thing, because it's not my job. Unfortunately, Serbia does not remember a minister of justice who personally worked on a large part of the provisions such as his work on the never-ending civil code for the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, but then completed the Law on Liaison Relations, which is one of the most modern legal monuments of Serbian and Yugoslav legal culture. If there's a formula in the law that something is obviously unwarranted, I don't know what can be controversial about it. This is a termology that appears in our legal regulations. There may be some other expressions that you mentioned, which are not according to your or someone else's court's most appropriate and can be discussed. I must tell you that even in the drafting of this text of the bill, we have introduced a practice that was abandoned earlier in the making of legal regulations. That we have hired top lecturers to review this text of the law for one reason, which is the matter that should first be, as reasonable as possible for former citizens, citizens and non-legislators. And I must tell you that this is something that, otherwise, the European Commission will insist on simplifying legal formulations and legal texts among all candidate countries in the Union so that they can be as much but more understandable and accessible to all citizens as possible. I know that we're colleagues by vocality, and I have to tell you something in which I and my family members, among whom there are a lot of economists, have fought a larger battle, which is that the dictionary of the ordinary graduate economist to that extent has been given away from the dictionaries of the ordinary world and that most often you can't understand them. The lawyers are well aware of the clarity and the accuracy of their statement and the dictionaries who use it. I don't know that in these three years we've broken the Constitution countless times, but I know that countless times in the period until 2012, the Constitution has been violated and that this is not a flat-rate political assessment, but that these are the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The constitution was violated when the judges and prosecutors were elected, the constitution was violated when it was voted on the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, the Constitution was violated when the Law on Transfer of Jurisdiction was passed to the AP Vojvodina. I've listed only those who are public and how well-known and what the Constitutional Court has decided. The Constitutional Court decided that some of the laws passed at the time of the conduct of the party you belong to were unconstitutional, and perhaps one day when the Constitutional Court declares something that was passed at the time of this parliamentary majority, it will again appear in a similar manner and I do not dispute it. What I say responsibly, if it stands behind you, the Council of Europe, when it comes to a bill like this, and I have one more thing to say, I really want to point out, and I failed to say in the opening statement, I am proud that the working group that did this text of the bill did its job. These are people who deserve every confession, because they've worked in one way that should be an example when making all the other regulations in this ministry that I'm currently in charge of, but it can serve others. I don't agree with what's been said to be the President's choice is political. We can have similar or different views of things. If you have a VSS in which most are non-political personalities, which are judges, if in that VSS, only one proposal must be drawn up for one seat of the President of the Court, then it's something that limits the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not known to me that one time during this government's time and during this parliamentary majority, the National Assembly rejected the VSS proposal because it disagrees politically. I think the old solutions were worse, that the VSS could propose five candidates to the National Assembly, so then the MPs, in line with who's getting politically closer to them and tell them about this or that, no, this is where the VSS puts you, maltene in front of a final act and asks you to either agree to that proposal or not. I remember that some other parliamentary majority knew when the election of members of the VSS did not decide, so one authorised promoter suggested to the National Assembly who to elect as a member of the VSS, and the MPs simply did not want to vote. That's what happened. It was purely political arbitration and it's not good. That's why we've changed the law in that direction so that VSS and DVT can give one candidate, and when that one candidate is given, the National Assembly either chooses him or doesn't choose him. Until now, it's never happened that she hasn't picked anyone, and I think that's the way and such a mechanism is something that's good. To be clear, you said there was a violation of the right to an impartial decision, because apparently the presidents of the courts are political figures. That is not true at all, and this leads to the President of the Court's obtaining authority, the authority to confiscate the judge's case. He can do that by the laws in force. These are the provisions of the Law on Judges, which was made at the time of your retirement party, and that same Law on Judges, in which the National Assembly in the same member who regulated the conditions for retirement, left the possibility that the VSS could arbitrationally decide to extend the work to one judge for another two years after 65 years of life and not make that decision. It's something that directly disrupts the judge's independence. It's something that's extremely bad. That possibility no longer exists. There's a clear predictability here based on the applicable rules, and that's 65 years of life. Let me remind you, it was this possibility, 65 years of life or 40 years of insurance. We were the only country that still knew that as a regulation. So 65 years of life and that's clear. Here, for a court that is absolutely specific to the work of its responsibilities, the Supreme Cassation Court, which plays the only role of equating the application of law in the Republic of Serbia and provides for a requirement of 67 years of life. I think that's good. One of your predecessors said that we first had, when it comes to the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable time, that we had a constitutional appeal, so that we had that ruling of the Court's Law, where the Court of Justice directly decides that the right to a trial would be violated within a reasonable period, and in the end, we have this law. I think it's one of the best evolutionary displays of how one new right is introduced into a legal system, which is the right to protect your civil right to be tried within a reasonable time. I will mention for the end one example, another prominent legal theorist, Professor Zoran Stojanovic, has recently presented a case of a man who has led a 40-year work dispute in Serbia, for 40 years. When the work dispute was concluded and he was found to be right, another question was raised that opened the second dispute, which is – how do you set the rate for the pension account? These are some things for Ripley, it's not something that testifies to the existence of some segments of the serious state. An emergency working dispute in six months has been conducted for 40 years. With this law, we will give the citizens of Serbia the opportunity no longer, which they have not so far owned in this way, which is to protect their civil rights, to be tried within a reasonable time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27152	Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, and in this example that you have just given to a dispute for 40 years, you will agree that the inherited state was not the Democratic Party for 40 years, although in some discussions we often succumb to some political struggle or barbecue, and then we say that all that is wrong was done by that party that was previously in power. I can freely say that I agree with you in some parts, because I have no problem admitting that some reforms have been done very badly at some point in time, as I will naturally say with full right that they are not working in the capacity that we need today. When it comes to the quality of the law, only the discussion was directed to raise the scale to make the quality as high as possible to keep the citizens as protected or as satisfied as possible. Also, when it comes to breaking the Constitution, I have no problem admitting that the Constitution has been broken in the last 10, 15, 20 years, but it's been broken in the '90s and I don't think it's the essence of some of our discussions today. I also think that when the question of Lex specialises "Beograda na Voda" and whether a constitutional court will say in the future that it was a violation of the Constitution we remain to see, but the essence of the following, the decision by the President of the Courts leads first to all what you said you were fighting, a fragmented and unequal case-law. It's a chronic problem with the Serbian judiciary. For this reason, our concern is that unless these amendments are accepted, this may continue to be the case. I think it's very important that we contribute together, even when these things are questionable. Here I think our intention is identical...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27154	Time for my colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27155	... except when it comes to the issue of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, it is the last topic that we disagree with, but when the issue of this Law on the Protection of the Right to Judges is within a reasonable period of time, I think that we need common energy to focus in the same direction because it is important for the citizens of Serbia and I am sure that we can do this much better than we do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27156	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27157	I thank the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, let's break that impression that something will be introduced here in Serbia that, I don't know now, once again, will disrupt the court's independent and impartial treatment. Well, who knows better about the work of the court knows that so far the President of the Court has been able to decide on the complaints of the parties about the length of the proceedings. Absolutely. So far, it has been up to now that the President of the Court has been able to appeal to the party in the proceedings that its proceedings have been going on too long. Who can he stand than the President of the Court? On the other hand, if you have carefully read the reasoning of the law, there are two groups of states that differ in how they treated this issue. One, as is currently the case in Serbia, has devoted one part of the provisions of a law to this issue, as is currently the Law on the arrangement of courts in three members, and other significantly more countries have passed a special law. In each of these countries, and these are to mention, only some of them, Germany, Italy, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Montenegro, are special laws in each of these countries, the law provides for the President of the Court to be the one to whom you object or appeal and the one to decide. When it comes to practice, I can tell you right away, so we've already got a certain bang. This practice was created by the Constitutional Court of Serbia in its work, we have the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, which may be the most significant in the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, and that practice has been created by courts in Serbia over the past year where the higher court directly decided to violate the right to trial within a reasonable time. Therefore, if you think there is a possibility of abuse, let's understand each other immediately, there is no law that removes any possibility of abuse, any law. There are laws that leave a much wider possibility for those who don't. Any possible abuse by the President of the Court in this respect leads directly to his responsibility. That's where you as a National MP can get up tomorrow and say something about it here in the National Assembly because the President of the Court, as he chooses it, so the National Assembly solves it and it's a very important end to that stick that you didn't mention before. I don't know what we have from the situation, let's say next, where the National Assembly doesn't choose the President of the Court the next day, doesn't resolve it. As a citizen in your place, you have information about the direct involvement of a judge or judge in corruption or some abuse of authority. You report to the disciplinary bodies of the VSS, which has neither the minister nor the chairman of the Justice Committee, and what can you do to him? That's the story. Kadiya's suing you, cadiya's judging you. So just explain to me how to get out of this situation, and this situation, I'll tell you right now, this situation has the judicial systems of the countries of environments that have done it to the end, and today they're forced to go back to the old solution because they realize that there is absolutely no possibility of mutual control and balance, no. To remind you, it's a return to that system that we may have had under the previous Judges Act, where you had a large personal council of Serbia, and because this bigger one didn't do its job right, your party broke into the 2009 party on 2010 to make a general choice of judges in a way that the Constitutional Court considered unconstitutional. So then you had to exclusively and only the judges decide on the disciplinary responsibility of the judges. It is not disputed that in most cases they should be judges like this today, but then the citizens rightly ask themselves – and how can we possibly influence our right to protect ourselves? So am I in favour of having a convincing, absolute, semi-half impact on the choice and resolution of judges? Yeah. Never one of us here who is not a judge, nor has he ever been a judge, will be able to stand in a judge's seat and know what it's like to handle a particular case and know what you're dealing with as dilemmas at that point, because we're watching it, you'll allow it, but much more like politicians. So there should be a crucial voice of the judge's profession. Can he be the only one? In my opinion, no, as we must not fall into the trap to say – is only the National Assembly without any other will, consultation, opinion, choosing judges, for example. That would be extremely bad. I think that we could all say with the right -- that's building a party judiciary, which none of us want. So you have one directive of the Council of Europe that says that between those who, at the final instance, make a final decision on the choice of judges and the judge's own profession there must be one advisory body. Look, 90 years before the Council's opinion, before the Council of Europe, this was predicted by our Vidovdan Constitution. He calls the king an indication of the minister's proposal, or so, on a proposal from the minister, but the minister is bound by a proposal he receives from a special one, to call it, from a special professional body. So he can't take his neighbor and propose him as a judge, but he's proposing who other judges are proposing. It's that balance and control system of each other. Let's not forget that. That's what came up with the modern democracy of the United States, right here. Let's see. So that's an example that works somewhere. Let's try according to our state-law tradition to apply it here as well, just so we don't get into solutions that are unverified and don't exist anywhere. We tried a lot on us, so we changed when it didn't work out. We're going after a solution that's been checked in practice, which works well in some legal system, and I just think that we can deal with big problems, and like I said, this is a law that will give citizens more rights. There are still many, many laws I need, some in two members, but in two essential members, to amend and supplement to treat the cause, not the consequence. Will this law resolve the issue of over 930,000 old cases in which Serbia's courts have been dealt with for five and more years? He won't. And will this law help if nothing else, and it significantly reduces the ageing of the case in Serbia? We have a chance to do this. Let's take that chance and make our system work on a better base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27158	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Sinisa Maksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27159	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, honourable ministers, I will briefly speak on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia about a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the mutual protection of classified information. But before I move on to this topic, I want to believe that a large number of our citizens, and all of us here in parliament, these days when the great Russia is mentioned, need that great nation and this great nation to give great thanks for everything they've done in the fight against fascism. These days they mark 70 years from that end, so to speak, fascism back then, with a big parade in Moscow. To our satisfaction, our soldiers participate, and we must be proud of it as a state and as a parliament. Russian soldiers were also killed to free other countries and other nations in World War II. The Red Army has laid down their lives to liberate Belgrade, Kruševac and Serbia and thank them for that. Representatives of the two governments signed the agreement last October to confirm the National Assembly. By confirming this agreement, we show willingness to co-operate with the Russian Federation and to improve this co-operation in all areas, not just in the area of security. It is important to stress that Russia is a permanent member of the Security Council and of the United Nations and that it strongly represents the interests of our country regarding the Kosovo and Metohija issue. In time, the exchange of classified information prevents individuals from endangering or harming the peoples and states. Serbia and the general public are known to have a high degree of interstate trust between Serbia and Russia. We agree on many issues, and by signing this agreement and today's support in parliament, we will only expand co-operation further. Socialist Party of Serbia MPs will vote in favour of the agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27160	The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27161	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Selakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the framework of this united debate on four legislative proposals, I will say something about the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judge within a reasonable period of time. Why? Because I believe that this law, I am free to say, is a long-awaited law, which will significantly improve the judicial protection of our citizens, make it impossible to delay court proceedings, as well as the impediment of participants in court proceedings. The law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period is one of the most important laws governing this area, which once again confirms the pro-European course of the government. As a candidate country for EU membership, which is soon awaiting the opening of negotiating chapters, including the area of justice, the proposal for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period is an important act in the process. We know that for years back, court proceedings, whether in criminal, litigation, non-partisan, executive or administrative proceedings, continued indefinitely and thus introduced uncertainty and enormous additional costs to their participants. The problem that existed because of unreasonablely long trials and despite the existence of a constitutional appeal was partially resolved in 2013, when the Courts' Law introduced the possibility of protecting the right to trial within a reasonable period. Even though the Constitution guarantees a reasonable trial, and these provisions in the Law on Registration of Courts, it is commendable that what the Ministry has now come up with a complete, special law, because we have seen in practice that practice shows, and we have heard it today and in the presentation of ministers and a few MPs, that, unfortunately, we have many cases that are longer than ten years, and also a huge number of cases that last between two and ten years. Here is the question – what is a reasonable time limit? When we look at European practice, in fact, at the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, we come up with the fact that every length of the case over two years is, in fact, exceeding that reasonable period. It is indeed great progress, once again, that the proposer has decided to resolve these problems by adopting a special act that is missing and which, we hope, when this law comes into force, our citizens will finally get mechanisms for protecting the right to trial within a reasonable time. The right to trial in the development period obviously could not be achieved on the basis of the constitutional norm and it is necessary that such a law prescribes its protection. Because of the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period, Serbia has lost numerous disputes before the European Court of Human Rights. The court concluded that in Serbia's legal system, citizens do not have an effective legal remedy to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period, guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and that same convention is an integral part of our legal order. Thousands of proceedings before the court are still under way, so such processes are expected to be warned and reduced to a minimum through solutions under the law. The law also plays a preventive role, as judicial protection itself should act as a means to prevent future injuries and speed up court proceedings within a reasonable period of time. In accordance with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the right to trial within a reasonable period has parties in civil and judicial proceedings, particularly in litigation, participants in a non-partisan procedure, parties to the administrative dispute. In particular, a prominent enforcement procedure has been stated. In order to indicate that the state is also responsible for the slow conduct of the perpetrators, damaged in criminal proceedings, damaged as a prosecutor and a private prosecutor, can only be entitled to trial within a reasonable period of time if the criminal proceedings have highlighted the property's legal claim, and this is also significant. The party does not pay a court fee to file a complaint, appeal or request for fair satisfaction, and these proceedings are urgent and have a decision-making championship. Although the law provides for a compensation of immaterial damage from the state in the event of a trial beyond a reasonable period of time, my personal opinion is that it is more important for citizens to complete their proceedings within, to speed up, to do something about it than to receive that fee. I'm sure the right to judicial protection in itself isn't enough unless it's protected by additional rights that promote its effectiveness. It is difficult, it is almost impossible to talk about respect for the right to judicial protection if it is tried long and slow, if delayed, tolerates the impunity of parties and other participants in the proceedings, if the changes in the system of court arrangements are common, etc. The right to a reasonable trial is an important element of law and it should not be forgotten that it is one of the fundamental human rights. The aim of this law at trial within a reasonable period is also to provide parties with protection from a slow and long investigation in criminal proceedings. A criminal-processing law system in Serbia, as we know, has been amended and is now investigating the prosecution. The practice of the European Court of Human Rights equalises the length of criminal proceedings conducted by the Public Prosecutor's Office with criminal proceedings, and even in such an investigation, the right to trial may be violated within a reasonable period of time. I am sure that the law on the protection of the right to trial will give Serbian citizens greater legal protection and security within a reasonable period of time, and will significantly reduce the length of court proceedings. Finally, I would like to say that, as a member of the Bosniak People's Party and a member of the SNS Parliament Club, in the voting day, I will support this law, as well as the other laws that are under this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27162	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27163	I thank you, Chairman. Mr Minister, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Justice, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, given that today as an authorised representative, I have spoken to exclude the law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period and in a sincere desire to point out on behalf of the MP's group what the law implies and the quality of that law, and therefore also the advantages that citizens receive under that law in relation to current system solutions, of course, and certain failures which we consider to be more of a no-technical nature, I would now point out that the MPial group of the SPS unequivocally supports other acts, legal acts which are being discussed today, and, above all, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges. Why? Because it's too much about the changes attached to the Supreme Court judges. Let's go now for citizens to simplify the story and point out what's most important when it comes to judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Of course, there is an essential setting of what implies the jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court, which is that the only Supreme Cassation Court has the jurisdiction to levelen judicial practice in the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia. It is known that unequal court practice is a huge problem that burdens, which represents a ballast for courts in the Republic of Serbia, but it is not the only job and the sole jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court. Citizens should know that, in addition to unifying court practice, the Supreme Court is considering the application of laws and regulations, as well as the work of the courts themselves. The Supreme Cassation Court shall appoint the composition of the Constitutional Court. The Supreme Cassation Court also proposes to the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and to carry out all other tasks given by law, or prescribed as his jurisdiction. Dear citizens of Serbia, who can do this? Only those who are the most professional, the most qualified and the most worthy. Why am I saying this? Because expertise, training and dignity are legally prescribed conditions for selecting the Supreme Court judge, in addition to the general conditions prescribed by the law and the necessary work experience, which is 12 years. Let's do a brief analysis here. Not all judges immediately after 12 years of working experience gained in the judiciary became judges of the Supreme Cassation Court. It's a very small number. A far greater number are those who have left their deep trail with safe, professional, responsible and professional work in courts in order to become judges of the Supreme Cassation Court only after a long period of 12 years. As such, in the Supreme Cassation Court, they should be detained for as long as possible and, as such, at that time interval, accomplish all that implies a description of the tasks under the jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court. Here today is the apostrophe of the distinguished colleague of Judge Andrejevic, but let's be correct. In addition to its undisputed high, professional references, is it possible to think that there are no good judges, such as Milomir Nikolic, Gordana Einspiler and many others, because it is extremely uncultural, and I am not sure that it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, aliminate the names? It is important to say that all the judges of the Supreme Cassation Court and how they deserve to have this treatment, and this treatment is now given to them by this law. We in the SPS parliamentary group wish them good health and necessary living and working energy so that they can carry out the burden of this job, which will now mean two years of long work compared to the time they have as an ageing condition for the exercise of pension rights was prescribed. Therefore, these are quite enough reasons to accept the Justice Department's proposal to support this law, and in no case are the insinuations created to undermine the law under the so-called opposition's personal interest here. In the end, I must on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and protect our party's interests to draw attention to one fact that no one here will doubt, because the opposition is constantly laminate about how no assembly should choose judges. We say that, we have insisted on this position for years in this House, in this assembly, in the previous session, in all synergy. The SPS believes that the Republic Assembly should not be that factor that will in any way be participating in the choice of judicial holders. We hope, frankly, that the constitutional changes will bring about such a solution and that the choice of judicial office holders will be removed from the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and when that happens, what the ideal implies, and the ideal is an independent, impartial, professional and dignified judiciary and the same judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27164	The word is by MP Mirjana Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27165	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, we have today on the agenda a draft law on a reasonable trial and I will say a few words to that effect. The right to trial within a reasonable period of time is a human right and cannot be achieved directly on the basis of a constitutional norm and it is necessary that the law prescribes a way to protect it. It's a real element, a derivative of the right to judicial protection. This right shall be left without fact if it is not guaranteed and if it is not brought to life. Except for constitutional complaints, the right to trial within a reasonable period has almost never been protected in Serbia by 2013. The party had almost no right to claim itself to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, but was left to the judicial and judicial administration and their discretionary assessment. The only instrument that was figured in addition to the constitutional appeal was to file a complaint, but the procedure was not sufficiently arranged. The 2013 Law on the Law of Courts introduced the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time into our system. In the middle, several provisions guaranteeing two combined rights in the court proceedings. First, a request for protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time followed by a complaint and a refund of the right to return to trial within a reasonable period of time. It is necessary to pass a law that will in general regulate remedies that protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. The basic objective of this law is to provide for effective legal facts that would allow for the protection of the constitutional right to be tried within a reasonable period of time and courts should allow flexibility in deciding on remedies that protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. It all depends on the circumstances of the legal matter. It should be achieved that the parties participate actively in removing infringements of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. I think the party's basic motive should be to speed up the court's case, not cash compensation. It must be kept in mind that these do not burden the courts, such as one of the objectives of equating the practice of determining the amount of compensation, i.e. a cash compensation for non-immuvine damage caused by a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. One of the objectives of this law is to reduce the number of complaints to the European Court of Human Rights for violation of the right to trial brought against the Republic of Serbia. The legal means to which we resort must be such that they can be filed at any stage of the court proceedings, taking into account the overall duration of the proceedings. The remedy must be such that it can provide for a correction of the procedure explicitly or silent recognition of the State that there has been a breach of the right of the party. The most effective is what is meant to speed up the process. Therefore, the legislator considers it most effective to introduce two types of legal means into the legal system. It's those who are speeding up the process itself and those who are guaranteed compensation. A legal remedy that protects the right to trial within a reasonable period is considered effective only if it has met two conditions, that effectiveness exists in fact normative and that it exists in practice. In the state of Serbia, there is a burden of proving this fact before the court. Step one, it's the legislator's word, and the final step in courts and public prosecutors. The criteria for the assessment of the duration of the trial within a reasonable period shall be applied by the President of the Courts when they decide on the merits of the objection and appeal, but also by the Advocate General when he receives a proposal from the parties for reconciliation and by a court of litigation when he receives a suit that requires monetary compensation. The law certainly also plays a preventive role, the sole judicial protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time should act as a means to prevent future infringements and speed up court proceedings. We have to realize that the grim statistics in our judiciary are, but it doesn't date from the last two years, but it's years before that. The overall strategic goal is to reduce the total number of cases in the courts of the Republic of Serbia by 80% by 2018. The plan is that in 2018 there are no cases older than 5 years, that 80% of cases between two and five years of age are reduced and 60% are reduced by two to three years of age. I have a special impression that there are 10,000 working disputes, and we know that they have to be resolved within six months. I would like to know what the state will do about labour disputes that workers will definitely receive as a result of obtaining illegal layoffs and, by the way, boasting directors who may not be in the executive positions, but who have been misusing by firing. All these compensations will certainly have to be filed and paid out of their budget, and these directors may now, in another business environment, create a management policy. It is clear to us what we want with this bill, to speed up the court procedure, to dismiss court proceedings, to reduce citizens' complaints before the European Court of Human Rights. Finally, in Vote Day as a member of the SNS parliamentary group, I will certainly support both this law and other laws on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27166	The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27167	Dear Ministers with guests, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, have listened years ago to reforms in the judiciary, especially about those reforms in 2010, but I will say from the point of view of someone who is not a lawyer to say some of my vision of things, and I believe that most of the citizens with me will agree that just in 2010, the foundations of this chaos that occurred in the judiciary when the cases were transferred from one court to another, from one drawer to another, and there they were locked up. The fact we just heard earlier, that nearly one million objects is about five years old. Statistics show what I was talking about. So, a large number of citizens have had or are still having problems, which is why this topic is both current, and this law is very important before us, both for the protection of citizens' rights and for the protection of justice. The aim is to create an effective, transparent independent judiciary, equal access to justice for all citizens and what is before us today a reasonable trial. The largest number of proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg is precisely on this subject, i.e. when a violation of the right to trial is committed within a reasonable period of time as a legal standard. What should ensure a reasonable trial is, above all, the creation of preconditions for judges to work uninterruptedly. This implies that they have the availability of information technologies and that new laws are passed that will benefit them. The biggest problem of the Serbian judiciary is the long and slow procedures that spoil the reputation of both our country and our reputation abroad, that is, outside our country in the world. As it is said, if the judiciary is ineffective, then it is brought into a situation to be pressured by a more powerful one, under the pressure of one who is more aggressive. So we have a dispute resolution under the influence of people who are forced to call or use their contacts to speed up their process. The judiciary must definitely be freed from it. What this law adopts is the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, as well as the independence of the work of the judges, and there will be a balance between these two spheres. It is important to ensure efficient and rapid work because the party should not be interested in the material gain it will achieve as a result of waiting to resolve the dispute, but rather in resolving the dispute. It is important to note that this law applies only to the development of a procedure related to its resolution, but not to the direction of resolution, and that is to be noted. So this isn't affecting the subject of an investigation. In this sense, there is no pressure on courts, this law does not bear that kind of pressure on courts, but encourages greater organisation and responsibility for faster realization. As an engineer, I would like to compare this law to the introduction of a united procedure for the construction licenses process in 28 days. There was then a lack of confidence that this process for issuing construction permits could be accelerated and that the procedure could only take 28 days, however, the results showed that this is possible when liability is brought down to those who directly participate in the process of issuing building permits. That is how it can certainly be expected here that this law will achieve the removal of all inherited procedures from these drawers and that they will go into their effective resolution. Because of the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period, Serbia only paid about 4.5m euros in the previous two years to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which has done our country great damage. The trial within a reasonable period is now as a legal instrument removed from the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court in the jurisdiction of the courts. So, as we have already heard several times, the proposed law allows the parties to complain, to object to the President of the Court if they are not satisfied with the speed of the proceedings, then, based on the judge and prosecutor's report, the president is obliged to give an answer within two months. The party can also press charges for financial compensation, if the right to do so is violated and we mentioned that it will range from 300 to 3,000 euros. Courts are given the flexibility of the decision on the legal means to protect this right and the law contains so-called “the law”. the criteria for the assessment of the duration of the trial within a reasonable period of time, but they are not taxed, so that in that sense the courts themselves may have the right to apply other criteria depending on the severity of the case. I would just like to point out what is very important, that citizens who have initiated proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg are allowed to address the defence by submitting a proposal for a settlement of monetary compensation. Because of all the benefits that we have heard today in the principle debate and which I have also mentioned among other things, the SNS will definitely support this law with satisfaction and we think this will be one of the more quality laws and very good laws in the judiciary that will be discussed for a long time and will lay the foundations of legal reform in the judiciary and of course support and all of these laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27168	The People's Messenger Vesna Simic has the word, and let the MP Dragan Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27169	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, such as colleagues before me pointed out on several occasions, problems in the functioning of our judiciary do not stem from yesterday. They've been moving back years. However, what gave the crown terrible unsettled problems, which allow individual disputes, that certain civil litigation takes 20 years or so, as counterpart Biljana said in her presentation, when she spoke as an authorised representative, she had the case for the working dispute to last eight years and that the company had been shut down in the meantime and that the party could not be charged in the case. So these problems take a long time, and the seal has given them a reform of the judiciary that must somehow be put in the way. It's been tried in a number of ways. It tried through constitutional appeals. We've had our chance to hear about it. It's tried itself with individual and other solutions. However, individual other solutions have not given the effects to this reform, and we are now facing this bill. This law has primarily a preventive role, and it sets out who has the right to seek trial within a reasonable time. It may be a party to any kind of procedure. Today, however, we all pointed out that executive procedures are particularly important. For what? Because they last inappropriately long, and the party can get a judicial verdict, as long as they want to hold it in their hands, until that verdict is carried out, there's nothing to be done before that. What is important to our citizens and what is also pointed out today is that these procedures are being conducted by emergency procedure, and that the party is not paying taxes. That's what our citizens are particularly interested in. Legal means to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time shall be an objection to the provision of the appeal procedure and the request for a fair trial. However, in order for the parties not to abuse their right to trial within a reasonable period of time, we have heard that there are criteria, that these criteria are set, that they, but not taxed until the end... So there is always the possibility that the president of the court to whom the party submits an objection may, depending on the type of case, value the specificity of the case some other circumstances which are of an impact on the acceleration of the proceedings. However, what is important is that the presidents of the courts who decide by appeal are not involved in the work of the judges, i.e. to ensure impartiality. What affected me today during the whole debate by the opposition is that no objection should be made to the presidents of the court. For God's sake, who do you refer them to if not the presidents of the court? What bothered me even more is that this should not be done precisely for reasons because the presidents of the courts, for God's sakes, and we have had opportunities in earlier discussions to hear when we chose judges who were first elected to the judge's office, that the presidents of the judges and judges at the judge's office were elected thanks to politics, i.e. by exercising political principles, not by the principles of expertise. I know they don't believe what they're saying themselves. Probably in that way trying to justify their practice in some way because it was their case. Their case was also political trials by their inexperiences who took years and years of life. I had cases in practice that trials, purely political trials that the Court of Appeal assessed and explained the verdict in a way that there was no place for a court case against that party at all, and the man lost in the court proceedings for ten years of his life. Working with people who had significant careers, who had retreated on the agendas and who had a significant impact on life, health and not to mention careers. Of course, if it's about lawyers or parties, then it's been a little bit of an impact on the opinion of the parties on these people. So if the President of the Court does not act the way the law obliges him, he is the only one who will answer for it. Therefore, there is no need for anyone else to worry about it in particular. The President of the Court doesn't always have to adopt an objection. He can also reject it or reject it, as is the case with other objections referred to it and which have been referred before. In a solution, however, the President of the Court requires procedural actions that effectively speed up the process and, of course, take care to see whether these actions are taken in practice and whether they are taken within a legal deadline that cannot be shorter than 15 days or longer than four months. However, the party has the right to appeal, but I will not talk about it much because we have already moved away from the debate. The President of the High Court shall decide on the complaints. However, if the proceedings in which the party considers that its right has been violated before the Supreme Cassation Court, in this case it decides more than three judges and the party respects the procedure and has acquired the right to fair satisfaction. In that case, what are the types of just satisfaction? It's the right to pay off, cash compensation for property damage. However, not all citizens are interested in paying cash compensation. There are also those who are satisfied with moral satisfaction, such as the right to publish a written statement by the State's Attorney's Office, which determines that the party has been injured by the right to trial within a reasonable period or the right to publish a verdict determining that the party has been injured by the right to trial within a reasonable period, which is also announced in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". However, there is a possibility of alignment with the Attorney General within six months of the time when the party has acquired the right to fair satisfaction. The party can also file a lawsuit against the Republic of Serbia for monetary compensation within a year of this exercise, and we also heard that by the case, I mean monetary compensation, ranging from 300 to 3,000 euros and that it is even about any case that the case is. It is paid by a court or a public prosecutor who has violated the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. The funds are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget under funds intended to cover the ongoing expenditures of courts and public prosecutors, out of which are expenditure on employees and ongoing maintenance of facilities and equipment. This law shall enter into force on 1 January 2016. It is of paramount importance for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore I call on everyone in this assembly to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27170	Thank you. The People's MP Dragan Nikolic has the word, and let the MP Ljiljana Mausic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27171	Mr. Chairman, honourable justice ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, MPs are only parties in power and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, you've been in this House many times, I've always spoken when you came, proposed and defended the laws, but I mean that today you really have exceeded all my expectations in a positive way. Today you have been very persistent, you have been very eloquent and have managed to get the opposition into a situation that at this point in parliament there is not a single MP of the opposition who has been trying to persuade you today in the opposite of what is logic in Serbia. You have also provided frantic information today on the number of working cases that are under way in Serbia's courts. You said that objects are over five to ten years old in a number of states somewhere over 713 thousand, and objects over 10 years of 239, making up a total of 953 thousand. It can be said that millions of cases are currently in work in Serbia's courts at all levels. It is one piece of information that scares all those involved in this business, and is even more concerned about people who expect justice from courts in Serbia. But what it relaxes, perhaps in some sense, is that it's 90% of this number of items that are based on an executive I.D., so it's about the items of execution, and that 79, 80, or 80,000 involve other objects. But these figures, which are frantic, which scare all experts and, of course, the layman's public, didn't just happen in 2012. I would remind Serbia's public that in 2009, when a reform of the judiciary was announced, there were no court trials scheduled in July and August for summer fairies. Since September, October, November, in December, no judge in Serbia has scheduled any hearing, expecting that they may be elected and may not be elected. One complete confusion was created, one fear, one uncertainty among the people who were professionally doing their job. Then came this famous reform, re-election of judges and about 700-800 prosecutors and the judge wasn't elected. Mostly there were the best people, the best quality, the most serious, with the longest internship. Those who were chosen were in charge for two months. The objects traveled from one court to another. When they're in charge, it's been another two months until they're scheduled. So, a total of about eight or nine months in 2009 and 2010 are scheduled hearings and one of the reasons why we came to this number is this famous reform of justice done by people who are not in this room right now, who were worried about how the presidents of the courts are elected, how judges are elected, how we do it politically. Absolutely not. So the criteria and criteria prescribed by the High Judicial Council for the election of judges and prosecutors are clearly clear. We, as messengers of the people, are only the third degree of how judges are chosen. The commission is being formed, the commission is being questioned and interviewed by all candidates, given afterwards to the High Council of the judiciary and representatives of the High Council of the judiciary come to this high house and give us names and names. In these three years, as far as I am in this House, no objection has been sent to any candidate for judge, any candidate for prosecutor, any candidate for president of the court, or any of the layman's public has spoken to us and said - you shouldn't have chosen this, you should have chosen this because it has achieved better results. All the results we learned about these candidates showed that they were the best in college or one of the best, that they proved themselves in practice working as trainees, that they got high marks from their colleagues from the courts where they worked and ended up particularly prominent when they passed judicial exams with distinction. I'm saying all this because today the opposition, having no arguments to collapse in any way the bill you've given, and it's about the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Court of Justice within a reasonable period of time, gave the labels politically even to the judges of the Supreme Cassation Court. I think it's embarrassing. I don't think this tall house deserves it. I don't think that the public of Serbia should be fooled by the fact that this is some kind of drug speciality, so we're making an amendment to the law that judges of the Supreme Cassation Court retire at 67 years of age by doing it for two or two judges. No, we're doing this because of all the judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, who have 37, as well as all the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation who will be elected, I hope, in this high house when the seats are vacant. So, we want these people, who have the greatest experience, with the greatest knowledge, who have been through all the instances, who have had to have huge legal experience, great knowledge, to come to this Supreme Cassation Court and try to create one legal stability in Serbia, the equality that the Court in Bujanovac, Presevo, Vranja, Subotics and Vrsac judges in the same way, that the legal practice is uniform, that you do not have one ruling in the Kingdom, the second ruling in Vranje which are diametrically opposite, and it is actually about the same parties, is about the same factual description, about the same legal issue. It just happened and you recognized it very much. I think the professional and layman's public welcome these proposals that you've made today, all these laws and all these solutions. We took the stairs down the stairs. We had a constitutional appeal when the Constitutional Court decided that when the courts didn't work properly. Then, by amending the Law on Regulating Courts, we decided that the High Court would decide whether to judge within a reasonable period of time. In this one evolution, we have now come to a comprehensive law that predicts all possible measures, actions, who will take it, two degrees. Absolutely one security will be created with citizens who have the possibility under this law to address the President of the Court. And who else, if not the President of the Court, who still has the right to exclude the case from any judge at all? The president is still being tried today, as people who are not satisfied with the dynamics and speed of trial are complaining back and forth today, unless they decide how satisfied they are, they have the right to appeal. So, all of this is foreseen by this law and you have today, I said, very eloquently, very detailedly. It is clear to the Serbian public today what it is and make sure that the SNS MP group in Voting Day, of course, when we review all the amendments that have been given to this law, will give its vote and thus give full support to all Serbian citizens to make sure that this parliament is working on their legal certainty, while at the same time giving full support to the justice ministry and the republican government headed by President Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27172	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27173	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, Article 107(1), have been injured. I don't think the speech of a distinguished colleague, Nikolic, has injured the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure have been hurt in another way. The dignity of the National Assembly is humiliated and humiliated. I know that we have in our society the stealth of the president of the province's government, Bojan Pajtic, who is never at work. He is never at work paid by Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina. But now, I guess by the reputation of our party president, here we have representatives of the Democratic Party, MPs who are not in the O.R. We are discussing an important topic, a fundamental topic for our society, for the judiciary, for all our citizens, but we have a stealth of the people's MPs in the O.R. I know that there is a "stelt government in shadow", so "stelt president of the province government, Mr Pajtic", invisible in his workplace, but invisible in results, and now we have "stelt" parliamentary groups, and somehow those that should be here, in the National Assembly. I will also, with the call of the Serbian Parliament's competent services, however, get out of the MPs' seats, so that they do not abuse themselves, to thank colleagues and colleagues of the SNS, but also to other colleagues because their attention, by participating in the debate, shows value, shows diligence, shows concern for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27174	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Ljiljana Malusic has the People's MP, and let the MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27175	Thank you, my dear. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, I was just about to express my dissatisfaction, since across the street really seems like a daunting, beautiful assembly of no one, we're discussing capital laws. It's a shame, but someone else will decide. I'll talk about the draft law supplementing the Judges' Law. Article 59. The law on judges is prescribed that the judge ceases working age at the age of 65. However, since the Court of Cassation is one of the highest instance of the judiciary, it is through the bill that we extend the century of judges from the Cassation Court, since they are considered to be the most educated, or most competent, most professional judges. It is necessary that, in order to protect the right to a fair trial, it is this way that it is extended for two more years and I agree. It's not true that it has to do with politics, it's simply about expertise. At this moment when we are doing reforms, and above all, the judiciary that is most important, it is certain that competence is necessary, and we have them in the judges that are now up-to-date. The second law I'm going to talk about is the draft law confirming Protocol No. 15 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human and Minority Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Protocol was adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in June 2013, and the Republic of Serbia has already signed it in December of the same year, which is excellent. It shows how up-to-date we are, how much we care about entering Europe, and not only that, we have a directive, we have to comply with EU regulations. What's important is that here, in fact, there's confirmation, and that's the most important thing, given that it's our obligation. Otherwise, this Protocol is not big but only has four changes and these changes concern members, Article 21, Article 23, Articles 30 and 35. I'll say a few sentences about each member. First of all, Article 21 applies, it regulates conditions for selecting judges, which is very important, and in order for someone to be elected judge of the European Court of Human Rights, it is necessary to be up to 65 years old. So that's 65 years max. What is important is the change of the second member of the amendment, which is Article 23, which is very important to speak and the mandate of judges and judges at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg cannot be more than 70 years old. So 70 is the limit. Next, Article 30 relating to the settlement of the case to the European Court of Human Rights, so that Brussels, a part of which has a restriction that the case cannot be settled if a break in the dispute is opposed. Of course that's good. The fourth member to be amended is a member of 35, who speaks of the fact that the performances of which were now six months have been reduced, and that is now four months. It is another improvement for the Republic of Serbia, we are moving forward with the EU. That's all good. I will shorten my speech, my colleagues have mostly said everything, possibly mentioning the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on mutual protection of classified information. Why is that good? To strengthen bilateral relations. Russia is a very close country to us, friendly through history we always have good relations with it. This Agreement will further strengthen these relations, and it is about mutual protection of classified information. We know that classified information can be top secret, confidential and internal. Also, these data are transmitted either by couriers or diplomatic mail. What's most important is that we strengthen bilateral relations. Thank you for your attention. Of course, the SNS will support the proposals of these laws and agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27176	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Let MP Zoran Bojanic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27177	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I will focus in today's presentation on the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Court within a reasonable period of time, primarily because it rests on constitutional principles, but also rests on the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms. The proposed bill of law, in fact, concerns human rights above all, and that is the right to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. What I particularly want to point out is that this law has a preemptive character above all, and the preventive character is seen precisely in what it warns, that is, the aim of this law, is to prewarn the creation of a breach of the right to trial within a reasonable time. What I also want to point out is that the Republic of Serbia and its government are on their way to joining the EU is certainly one of the goals of harmonising our legislation with EU legislation. The minister himself, Mr Selakovic, pointed out in his opening statement, which was extensive, which was clear, which was precise, that in the draft of this law they consulted and co-operated with the European Commission. Also, I would like to point out, this is that the country's comparative legal solutions in the environment have been considered and that, of course, positive experiences have been used from these comparative legal solutions, primarily from Slovenia and above all from Poland. What I also want to point out is that the proposal for this law speeds up judicial proceedings through the application of two legal means. The first legal remedy is the objection, the second legal remedy is the appeal, except for the acceleration of the procedure of course by this bill allows for the satisfaction of those who participate in the proceedings through the cash compensation of non-proprietary damage. I also want to point out that's Article 4. Proposal for a law relating to the criteria for the assessment of the trial within a reasonable period of time. I must point out that these criteria are fully in line with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, but I must also point out that these criteria are not closed, that the criteria with the open sheet are and that these are precisely the ones that see the flexibility of the court. What does that mean? Of course, the court does not act on patterns, although uniform court practice in the same legal matters is something that the Republic of Serbia should seek anyway. It means that the excess list is not closed and is not closed precisely because each object is specific and each object is unique and unique to itself. What I would also like to point out is that this bill actively particises and participates in the court procedure, which is a participant in a litigatory, non-participatory, administrative, executive procedure by providing him with the possibility of submitting complaints and complaints. The complaint and appeal are procedural assumptions for fair satisfaction in the court proceedings and, of course, they are preliminary actions in order for fair satisfaction to come at all. What I find extremely important, which is extremely important from the aspect of dispensation of courts, it seems to me to be a member of the 24th that gives me the opportunity to bring things to justice. That alignment procedure could take two months. In that procedure, or the alignment is achieved, and if the alignment is not reached, the proceedings shall be suspended, but the party shall, of course, have the right to bring the action before the competent court. Also, what I would like to point out is that it is a member of the 35th proposed law that gives the opportunity to all our citizens who have submitted a proposal, or a request before the European Court of Human Rights, whose requests have not been examined and no appropriate decision has been taken, that they may address within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, the defences for the sake of alignment, or to initiate a lawsuit within one year of the date of entry into force of this law, which certainly gives our citizens the opportunity to exercise their rights that were previously denied in the country. This certainly is from the domain of human rights. The Republic of Serbia takes care of all its citizens, especially citizens in court disputes. This restores citizens' trust in the court, but, of course, increases the responsibility of judicial authorities and judges. All of these are reasons why the SNS in the voting day will support all the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27178	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zoran Bojanić has the word, and let the People's Messenger Biljana Ilic Tosic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27179	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, so much has been said in this comprehensive debate that was really both good and good. First of all, I will talk about the Law on the Protection of Justice within a reasonable period of time, and at first I would point out what most of the debaters failed today, that a broad public debate was held where all relevant factors were involved both judges and interested persons, and most importantly that the Ministry also organised round tables in the seat of the Courts of Appeals in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis and all the objections the professional public made, were added to this draft law and given to us in this bill. The law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period is a prerequisite for reducing the number of cases left behind, as well as respect for the human rights of participants in the process. National strategy for judicial reform for 2013 – In 2018, as one of the primary problems of the judiciary, whose resolution is urgent, I suppose solving the case within a reasonable period of time. The bill is part of the measures covered by the strategy, whose aim is to make justice more accessible to citizens, to increase the trust of citizens in the judiciary, to reduce the number of cases left behind, as well as the number of acts against the Republic of Serbia before the European Court of Justice, or the European Court of Human Rights, because of violations of the right to trial within a reasonable time. On the fact that the law provides for a fair compensation or reparation on how the right to a trial within the reasonable period under the draft law has a party in the court procedure and who are all participants, that this right does not have a public prosecutor, I will not say anything about all these details because so much has been said first and foremost in the very good presentation of Mr. Minister and defense of this law, as well as in the presentations of our previous colleagues, I am thinking first of my colleague Nikolic and I think of my colleague Milank, who was just talking about it. I would only add that one of the objectives of this law is to reduce the number of complaints to the European Court of Human Rights for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period, which is filed against the Republic of Serbia, which are currently thousands. The 2013 Law governing courts introduced into our system a request for protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, followed by appeal and compensation for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable time. Practice has shown that it is necessary to pass laws that would in general regulate this matter, provide means to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. The draft law was made in accordance with the practice of the Strasbourg court and I repeat the solution for us and the legislation of the neighbouring countries, it seems to me that a colleague of Milanka pointed out this earlier, primarily by the former Socialist states and Germany. Specific laws on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period have Slovenia and Montenegro from the republic of the former Yugoslavia, and Croatia and Macedonia have this set of rights, but are incorporated into the laws on courts. Finally, what I would particularly like to underline is that Serbia has a verdict by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg from the previous two years. He has to pay about four and a half million euros in damages. Only last year, miss a domestic legal system cost us 2.7m euros. The trial in Serbia is on average for Ripli, 579 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27180	Thank you. The People's MP Biljana Ilic Stosic has the word, and let the People's MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27181	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I cannot and do not want to miss the opportunity to give first of all recognition to the legislator of this law, as well as to the expert service of the restoring ministry for the effort made and the detailed explanation of this text. I would venture to say that this is certainly one of the best-founded legislative proposals so far, which not only makes it easier for us MPs to work, but also, above all, has contributed to the quality of today's debate and to the final formation of this legal text for its adoption. Guaranteeing the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period is certainly one of the fundamental, not only purely legal, but also the civilizational institutes included in the body of non-infringing human rights in accordance with the applicable international conventions, as well as the treatment of our constitutional and legal matter, however, all that is constitutionally declared and protected, this fundamental right must also be realised through the relevant instruments and procedures which are precisely laid down in this draft law. It is not disputed that this legal institute has been formally provided at least in some way before, counting on both the Constitution and the Law on Regulating Courts, for example, and all the concrete instruments such as the constitutional appeal, which has proved in practice, in a number of reasons, to guarantee effective satisfaction and the exercise of this right, which is why the practice of a vast number of complaints found by citizens points to the address of the European Court of Human Rights clearly confirms the need for a better institutional arrangement of this matter on the one hand. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure sustainable mechanisms and instruments that these rights and sustainability can indeed be protected. This is primarily the result of the need and the tendency that these rights should not be violated by anything, but also by a number of other aspects that are most serious about the assessment of what is called a legally regulated state. In that sense, in addition to the legislator, which is only an initial mandatory but not sufficient step, there is a whole series of entities that must participate in the real protection of these rights. I mean the courts, the defenses, but also the law offices, the public's legal aid services, especially the media. They all have a role and a responsibility and a responsibility to make this kind of protection both clear and accessible, so that they can make it real and use it. On the other hand, the question of responsibility for citizens' money is being compensated for no matter how fair they have to finance. In recent media, I would say the very successful appearance of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Mr Milojevic, we heard various data, among others on the eternal subject – Justice is slow but accessible. I was amazed by the information about the most famous court marathon in our country, 36 years old, as well as not a very rare practice that procedures, especially not the criminal ones, are often delayed without any real, more specific objective reason. Judge Milojevic also called lawyers but also judges who often consciously push some cases under the carpet by postponing them. As he said, there was a certain but very worrying apathy observed in the holders of judicial functions. The need for better efficiency of the judiciary is probably as old as this branch of government, with the inviolability of judicial functions cannot be a front for insufficient good work by judges. Of course, efficiency must not undermine the quality of court decisions, so the balance is the right measure in this regard and one of the central issues in the implementation of this law, especially when it comes to the use of the instruments provided for by this bill, such as the complaint or appeal. The estimated amount of compensation for the production of immaterial damages in the dinar equivalent of between 300 and 3,000 euros corresponds to the economic power of the state register, which should also be protected and protected. It is certainly understandable that the indignation and anger of citizens who have failed for years to end the protection of their legitimate rights and it is not disputed. However, it is disputed how to determine the responsibility of those institutions and institutions to play roles in institutions that allow their insufficient efficiency to come into a situation where the only instrument remaining for citizens is material compensation. I don't mean just the judges, but most of all, I think about them, especially in situations where the reasons aren't real and objective. It is not about the presidents of a court or a grand jury seeking a way of avoiding the judgment of a fair compensation to damaged citizens, but about the fact that there is no violation of that right at all, and that there is no sharing of responsibility, and in particular irresponsibility. There is a huge work to be done by many institutions to achieve this projected ideal of equating justice with justice, on which the bill is only a starting point, but a very good basis, which is why as a Member, as a human and as a citizen, I will support it most sincerely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27182	The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. (Not here) Just to inform the MPs that there is currently no direct transfer of the Public Service and that the part of the session that is not being broadcast will be on a delayed transmission. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27183	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, today in the principle debate there were really a lot of words about the law of the domain of the judiciary and I will repeat what my colleagues said – I am truly grateful to the minister for showing endless patience, and giving exhaustive answers primarily to the MPs of the opposition, trying to explain every segment of this law. I will talk about a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the mutual protection of classified information. Namely, this Agreement was signed on 16 October 2014 and we, MPs, have the opportunity to adopt this law and thus confirm this Agreement. This Agreement shows that the Republic of Serbia is ready for mutual co-operation with the Russian Federation, primarily in the security sphere, with a defined and clear way of sharing classified information. In addition, we also have an improvement in co-operation with one of the permanent UN Security Council members, who understands and represents the interests of our country perfectly, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia's territorial integrity. We are aware that the world faces global challenges and threats, and this Agreement allows for joint action against all the risks facing the world community. Voting for this bill will bring about more effective co-operation between the Serbian state with the Russian Federation and in the areas of justice, home affairs, foreign affairs, the defence sector, co-operation with different economic operators, which will also open business opportunities in the dedicated industry. Of course, in order to meet technical standards, it is necessary to plan financial resources in line with our country's capabilities, which will be taken into account by the competent ministries and state authorities. It should be recalled that our country has started co-operation on the protection of classified information and with the organisation of the North-Atlantic Pact or NATO and with the European Union and that for these purposes the Central Register for Foreign Information has been established and a procedure to be applied with other countries. Finally, the agreement will also bring about a desire to protect secret data between the two friendly countries in the fields of politics, defence, military technology, economy and other areas. As far as I'm concerned, it's clear, as well as from the previous presentation of the SNS MPs, that I will support this set of laws on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27184	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger of the Jellysavet of the Colors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27185	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, I want to express my personal satisfaction and praise to the Ministry of Justice, above all Minister Selakovic and his associates, because today there is a bill on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, which was needed much earlier, because this right almost did not exist with us. The parties who would be unhappy during and the length of the trial, apart from the appeal and constitutional complaints, had no other legal means to protect their rights to trial within a reasonable period, which is why Serbia lost many disputes before the European Court of Human Rights, and the aim of this law is to prevent it. This right to the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period is not enough in itself and would be without a legal fact if it were not guaranteed, and would be guaranteed if there were a discharging of the courts, if there were an increase in the number of judges, to increase the number of judicial assistants, as well as to regulate other regulations that would regulate this matter. This proposal for a law shall be governed in whole by legal means which protects the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and which are parties which have the right to protection. Legal means to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time are doubles. These are the means which seek to speed up the process, which are the complaint and appeal and the request for fair satisfaction when the parties are given satisfaction when the right has already been violated. The content of the objection, i.e. its mandatory elements, shall be detailed, because without them it would not have been acted upon. These are two groups of data – data about the party itself, so-called personal data and data on the legal matter under consideration. It shall then be determined which party is objecting to, whether it is a court before which the proceedings are pending, whether it will have an investigation or be without the examination procedure. In the case of an investigation, the President of the Court shall not refuse to object, nor shall he adopt it before delivering it to the judge or the public prosecutor and shall request a report on the state of the legal matter and may request complete files. After that, it adopts or refuses to object by adopting a solution. The deadline for this is two months from the date of receipt of the complaint. When an objection is adopted, the President of the Court orders the judge to take procedural action that would speed up the procedure within a certain time limit. That deadline shall not be less than 15 days or longer than four months. In addition, the President of the Court may assign the case to another judge if the judge is burdened or is absent for a longer time. When it comes to the objection against the public prosecutor and when the president of the court adopts it, he makes a decision that determines that there has been a breach of the right to trial within a reasonable period and delivers it to a senior public prosecutor who, within eight days, needs to adopt an instruction to speed up the proceedings and a deadline within which a lower public prosecutor is required to implement it. Also, that deadline must not be shorter than 15 days or longer than four months. The instructions are mandatory to the President of the Court and to the parties, so that the party has the right to appeal. This proposal for a law is detailed when the party has the right to appeal and to whom it is delivered and within what time limit. I will just point out, when it comes to the Supreme Cassation Court, that the appeal and appeal proceedings are decided by more than three judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation, within 30 days. What is important is to point out that the proposal for this law is detailedly regulated and the right to just satisfaction contained in it is actually two rights. The right to fair satisfaction when a fine is awarded for immaterial damage and the right to publish an act which determines that a right to a fair trial has been violated within a reasonable period of time. Of course, and cumulation of these two rights when it comes to a major violation of law. The amount of compensation is recognised at between 300m and 3,000 euros in dinar versus the value per payday according to the NBS average rate per case. Just to add that when it comes to property damage compensation, the party is filing a lawsuit within one year from the right to fair satisfaction paid by the court or by the public prosecutor who violated that right. The funds are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and are intended to cover current expenditures, courts and public prosecutors. What I want to point out in the end is that in this way the parties are stimulated to take an adequate part in removing the right to trial within a reasonable time, to make it their priority and basic motive, not their cash compensation. As regards the draft law supplementing the Law on Judges, only Article 59 is complemented. The Law on Judges requires that the Supreme Cassation Court judge ceases working relations when he is 67 years old by force of the law. Given that the Supreme Cassation Court is the highest court in the Republic of Serbia as well as that the judges of this court are the most professional, in order to protect the right to a fair trial by law, it is possible for them to perform this post for two years longer than the judges of the lower court. This proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Judges is in line with the national programme for the adoption of legal flows of the EU as well as with EU rules. Serbia's advanced voter day will support and vote all these bill proposals that were under discussion today in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27186	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27187	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Arsic, Mr Selakovic, Mr Selakovic, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to see Mr. Minister of Justice, Mr. Selakovic, that often, I would say very often see you in this high house, home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This speaks of your work both you and the entire Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. I am sure that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have recognized it and will know that they appreciate the moment it is necessary. I'm going to say, very briefly, something about the draft law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. It's really hard and hard for me to say anything, Mr. Minister, after the good speeches of the MPs from the SNS and your Mr. Minister, the opening, transparent and above all clear and eloquent explanation. This very important law is for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the state of Serbia as a whole has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who submitted to us the MPs in this high house on April 27th, 2014, for a little over a year. Of course, not to forget, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is the most comprehensive, largest, most precise, most concrete and systematic of all 72 previous, since the time of the first Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Prote Mateja Nenadovic, in 1805 until today. Or the most comprehensive, the biggest, the most precise, the most concrete, the most systematic in Serbia's recent history, I call on historians to investigate it and to assess it, so they'll see it's true. On page 25 of the exposé, besides the rest, the objectives and reforms of the judiciary are among other things, and to quote a reduction in the number of pending cases and speed up court proceedings, the quote ends. It is also this Law on the Protection of the Right of Judgment within a reasonable period of time besides the others brought by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that enables the implementation of the said objective of the judiciary from the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. This proves, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is slowly but certainly implementing the outlined reforms and in the judiciary as one of the pillars of comprehensive reforms, which is the alpha and omega of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which I hope we all advocate. I can't, ladies and gentlemen, believe that today they are referring to unfounded criticism, one part of the opposition, and those directly responsible for the situation in the judiciary, when you, Mr. Selakovic, inherited it, and that, according to the European Commission's assessment, was the worst quote in Europe, finished. The judiciary, when you Mr. Ministers inherited it, was in such a trap that there was almost no dedicated lawyer who did not experience his tragedy as a tragedy of profession and the leader of the URS, Mladjan Dinkic, in 7.7.2012, sharply criticised the reform of the judiciary in this National Assembly conducted by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, in which he himself was the minister, which Brussels assessed, quotes: "as the worst thing done", finished the quote. The minister of justice from that time sits in opposition benches, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, here in the National Assembly, unfortunately not often in this National Assembly. Let's remember the unremembered scandals in the staffing and exorcising of judges to unbalanced crimes. The judiciary was rocking like a building prone to fall. Some judges died of injustice, and some committed suicide, but there was something unrecorded in the history of the judiciary, which natural state historians and the rights to record and study, they chose a dead judge, Ljubiša Đurić for the judge of the Basic Court in Požega and, behold, the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, Nata Mesarovic, quoted "every candidate has been checked", as saying. I just don't know, respected citizens and respected fellow MPs, how the dead judge could check the European Commission's 2010 report says that more than 800 judges were not re-elected. The report reads, quoting "the reform they are conducting", I add, the former regime, finished my part, "is a special concern", finished quote. Look wonders, in the book "The Reform of Justice in Serbia 2008-2012", Belgrade in 2012, page 96, believe it or not, author Dr Vesna Rakic Vednelic and other associates, and Mr. academic congratulation forgot in the opening afternoon to quote this, and unfortunately it is never in the afternoon, and I said in the last Assembly – if I welcome the afternoons that I will vote for his amendment and of course I did not get that wish. The European Commission continues, quotes: "The judge's re-election process was non-transparent, risking the principle of independence," a quote concluded, by page 96, believe it or not, no one but Dr Vesna Vednelic with associates. Dear academic congratulations, she's gone today, tonight in the Assembly to replicate this to me, but what you're going to do is work on every session of the assembly. So, the former regime didn't just destroy the judiciary, they destroyed our past, and I'm really saying, our present, the future of our children, and if they had stayed in power for just a year on a republican level, they would have destroyed our roots. Dear citizens of Serbia, you did not allow them to do so. The law on protection at the trial did not exist within a reasonable period of time and why not say so, and therefore, that right was almost protected in the Republic of Serbia by 2013, as you, Mr Minister, said. That is why he is responsible for the former DS regime because he has had time to pass the law and has not passed it, and today he finds it appropriate to criticise the adoption of this law. So, apart from the constitutional appeal, the party had almost no right to claim its own protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. The European Court of Human Rights also concluded in 2007 that in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, citizens do not have at their disposal, I quote, effective legal remedy, completed quote, protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. What was the former regime doing from 2007 to 2012? Why didn't he bring it in, and he finds it appropriate to criticise today this law, that it won't be realized for God's sake, and that's what we'll see if it will? I'm saying he will. That right to the citizens is guaranteed, according to my colleagues, 13. The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 32(1). We heard from colleagues from the Democratic Party of Criticism – why is the Constitution not applied? Who told them not to use it? Why didn't they pass this law, like that? They didn't bring it at all. What's important, and that's that the right to trial within a reasonable period of time will be left without a fact if we don't bring it back to life in practice. I'm sure we'll bring him back to life in the first row to you, Mr. Minister, and your advantages and your work, because the degree of responsibility of the people who work in the judiciary should really be greater. Perhaps it's not bad to think that the application of this law is also one of the elements in the evaluation of judges. At least I don't know, since I don't do that part, whether it's meant to be. This right of the citizen is guaranteed, as I said, to the convention, but the Republic of Serbia has lost numerous disputes before the European Court of Human Rights against it led by citizens of the Republic of Serbia for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Why don't you say, Mr. Minister Selakovic, by your pledge, by two years, you've reduced the number of performances by the International Court of Strasbourg from 14,000 to 2,000. We need to say it in public and openly. Finally, the law is based on the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and on the experiences of one part of the countries of the European Union, which you have spoken of, that I do not repeat them, which tells us that citizens of the Republic of Serbia will receive an excellent law in favour of the modernisation of Serbia, which the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, with the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, is being assisted by the President of the Republic of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic, most of the MPs in this National Assembly and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I call upon you, gentlemen of the opposition benches, they are gone, but two, unfortunately, that you vote for this law, too, because at least a little, even this way, will ease your responsibility for not passing this law from 2000 to today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-05-0.u27188	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a common principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
