ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36236	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 103 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. That a line from the president, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Since I have four registered here, I'm going to read, because he hates you to sign up, I'm going to read from the smallest to the biggest. Alexander Chotric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36237	Dear Madam President, MPs and MPs, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to the marking of mass graves that occurred at the end of World War II and after its end. Namely, the State Commission for Secret Cemeteries after 12 September 1944, during its work from 2009 to 2012, listed 66,000 victims of the communist totalitarian regime. It was mostly about murders without trial for ideological and political reasons. The Commission has located around 215 mass graves where victims of the newly established totalitarian regime have been buried, and so far exhumations have only been executed in two tombs. One's at Bolvec's, one's at Kragujevac's. Unfortunately, no DNA analysis of the victims has been performed to determine their identity, compared to their relatives, but I believe it is necessary for these tombs to be marked in a dignified and appropriate manner. This means putting together the mention of tables, information about who was buried in those tombs, who were executioners, to be a reminder that such crimes would no longer be repeated. Unfortunately, the Commission has practically suspended its work and is presumed to be more and more of these victims, to be several tens of thousands of people and to cross perhaps a number of more than 100,000. Namely, the Association of Political Prisoners and Victims of the Communist regime, several times over the past years addressed the Ministry of Justice with a proposal for these tombs to be marked, but so far there has been no positive response. I refer this question to the Ministry of Justice, given that the Commission for Mass and Secret tombs worked under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice, that what in co-operation with the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy and Employment, which in its composition has a sector that cares about memorials, i.e. tombs, does everything to ensure that this stop is marked in a dignified manner. My second question is addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture, because today the situation in the countryside and agriculture areas is very difficult, given that our villages are practically empty and that a growing number of people are engaged in agricultural production, although there are still about 630,000 rural households, and currently live in the village about 45 of the population of the Republic of Serbia. It's a large number of acres of unprocessed land. It is estimated that over 500,000 unprocessed hectares were only in the past year, that in almost 200 villages there are practically no more and there are no more inhabitants, in so many villages there is no one under 25, in every fourth village in Serbia, the youngest has more than 60 years and what is a special problem is that our villages are not in the local self-government system, or have no municipal status, have no budget, have no original income and jurisdiction. It has been shown that the advice of local communities as a form of organisation of the village administration, which has existed since 1963, is not a guarantee for development, but unfortunately for the destruction of the village. So my question to the Ministry of Agriculture is whether it will make the necessary moves and take measures to form a developmental agricultural bank in each region. Thus, the establishment of these financial institutions would place long-term loans under favourable conditions for the poorest farmers, for those who want to deal in a modern way with agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36238	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36239	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, we have witnessed the recent years of great efforts being made in the Republic of Serbia to modernise the railways, to make our railways worthy of the 21st century, that our trains go faster than 40km an hour, from the average currently in the Republic of Serbia. I'm thinking of the speed our trains are going. It is good that railways are modernised and it is good that Serbia does not have a fast track and that something of national interest, strategic interest for Serbia, gets its full importance and can be used in full capacity. The city of Nis is located on the famous road E-10. It is a road to the Middle East, towards the south, towards Greece and what is interesting, the railway passes through the centre of the town of Nis and there is all the traffic, both freight and passenger routes, remembering the city in two halfs. There are over 30 spring crossings in the city, and the city of Nis has been trying and trying to move the railway from the city centre for decades, as Belgrade wanted to build "Belgrade on water", so we want to move the railway from the city centre, tried and tried to move it from the city centre, so that the city could develop normally. What was done in 2010 during the past government, is to raise international credit with the International Bank, that an idea project of a million-and-a-half euro has been done and that it has entered into the expropriation of the future practice of the railway line around the City of Nis. What was done by 2012, until the change of government was behind the idea project and the beginning of expropriation. Most of the expropriation was done on that future route. Since 2012, everything has gone dead, even as much as I have information and the loan has failed, the loan has stopped retreating, the funds have stopped retreating, and the whole project is supposed to be 25m euros. My question to the Director of Railways, Mrs. Mihajlovic and the Prime Minister – when will the railway be moved from the City of Nis or if not – is it true that you will be eloquent of the existing railway and divide the city into two parts? The citizens of Nis have made it clear to the Assembly that they want the railway to be moved, and I repeat the question to the director of "The Railways", Ms. Mihajlović, the resolute minister and Prime Minister – when are you planning to remove the railway from the city center, how could the entire Corridor 10 be electrified and detained for purposes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36240	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36241	I would like to thank the President. My parliamentary question is asked by the Ministry of State Administration in local self-government, and it is linked to one of the municipalities in the territory of the Zlatibor district, it is the municipality of Požega. In view of the fact that problems related to the adoption of a practical non-applicable decision of the Požega Assembly are emerging in that area, and that decision directly derivates citizens' voting rights which relate to the territory of local communities, which, unfortunately, leads to one absurd solution for two reasons. The first reason why the territory of the local community coincides with the territory of the Catastrian municipality, and the second reason is that the decision made by the Požega Municipality Assembly is in a way that is difficult to understand and in practice causes serious problems, so it is said that the citizen of the local community is a person living in the territory of the local community, i.e. on the territory of the local community where his residential facility is located. In this way, serious problems have been created in practice. Constitutional rights have been compromised and one of the basic constitutional principles has been violated, and this is the principle of non-discrimination. A specific example of this is the election for the council, i.e. the board of the local community right on the territory of the municipality of Požeg. It is two local communities - the local community of Tometaino Polje and the local community of Ljutica. During the elections right from the local community, those who have neatly issued ID cards on the territory of the local community, Tometino Polje, were unable to achieve this electoral right. Why? Because their housing facilities are located outside the territory of the local community, they are already in another local community and in the local community of Ljuvica. This way of ignoring the rights of voters and citizens is undoubtedly the opposite of the Constitution, it is undoubtedly the opposite of what it implies and the constitutional right to freely define the place of life. It has even come to the point that these citizens who have been brought into a situation that cannot exercise their voting rights where they live and where they are reported neatly and where a personal document has been issued neatly, a personal ID card, it is a personal map, the right cannot be realised. The whole situation's absurdity comes down to another practical example, which is that 30 households living in the territory of the Catastrian municipality of Ljutica more than, say, 100 years, counting and the ancestors of these citizens, are eligible for voting in another local community, and this is the local community of Tometino Polje. Why is this issue being asked to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government? It is only because the citizens who spoke to me as an MP sought protection of their rights and literally exhausted all means and legal mechanisms, including the initiation of litigation. Unfortunately, the local government, regardless of what political orientation it was, did not have enough hearing to recognize these demands in the right way and their interests of protection. That is why there is the possibility that, possibly or through administrative supervision or other legal mechanisms, this paradoxical situation can be resolved in the interests of all citizens, I repeat, of all citizens of the territory of the municipality of Pozeg, and particularly of those citizens who are in this way threatened, whose rights are limited which is undoubtedly the opposite, as I said, of both the Constitution and the positive regulations of the Republic of Serbia. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36242	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36243	Thank you, President. I ask my question to the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, that is, Minister Alexander Vulin, and the question concerns the Kulski stafs company in Kula, which is under bankruptcy to this day. In one introduction, I will say that in 1988 in Kula, which then had about 50,000 inhabitants, 15 thousand employees were in the economy, or 13,000 in production, and only two thousand out of business. Today, in 2014, in fact last year, the municipality of Kula has 47,000 inhabitants, of which only 800 employees. The factory I want to talk about is a.d. "Culk Stuffs" from The Tower, a factory that has recently celebrated hundreds of years since its founding. She had 1,700 employees at her best times. She was then known for making quality screws, she received several times "Golden shirts" for quality. In those times of year, the best weave was two million feet [2 million m] of staff. The workers of the factory built a kindergarten, a recreation centre with a pool on Saturdays, and so on. They took part in the construction of the entire municipality, and still. The company was never privatised, i.e. 97% of the company was actually state-owned by 2010, but before that there were various problems because it is well known that workers had not received salaries in those 2000 years, and they did not receive 87 salaries. So, on July 5, 2010, The Stafford went bankrupt, and at that point, 212 workers worked at the factory. The privatisation agency has appointed Milorad Veljovic as the bankruptcy manager. The collective contract was signed by workers long before and they had solutions on work, on the specification of jobs by points. I stress that because of the continued bankruptcy. The bankruptcy manager after the appointment, although under the Bank Act, he had to do a social programme, because the factory was eventually state-owned, he didn't do it. I ask Minister Vulina – why is a.d. "Kulski stafovi", why is no social programme done in the Kulski stafs Action Society in Kula? Why did only 82 workers receive from the Solidarity Fund 184 and some thousands of dinars, and the other workers did not get that although they have a verdict based on the May 2011 Interim Court recognition? So, for six years, they've been waiting for back salaries and the part that's coming to them, as well as those workers whose bankruptcy manager Veljovic paid off. So, these workers from July 5, 2009 to July 5, 2010 have not been paid minimum earnings, and that is the 184,000 dinars, and there is a verdict. Why hasn't the bankruptcy manager informed all workers of the same procedure and on what principle has he paid 80 workers, and the others have not been paid off and the social programme has not yet been done? Why is this social program bypassed even though the factory is state-owned? I'm still asking – what happened to the property of this Kulski staf company? The workers say that some machines have been exported, driven, transported to Italy because some workers who have had these experiences went there to install them. What about the New Vienna office? It's clear there's a Telekom building there today. Who gets paid the rent and is that place sold to? Who uses the storeroom in The Tower? Who takes money for that rent? Since there is a mortgage in The Stafford, that space cannot be sold, but of course it can be issued for 99 years and ask if it will be betrayed to whom? Maybe there's already a person to be betrayed. Workers of A.D. "Culk Bars" built a recreational centre, I already stressed that they worked on Saturdays, etc. Excessive. That space is not used and most likely it will be sold too. Who's running it now? On the basis of Article 180. The bankruptcy law, bankruptcy director Milorad Veljovic, was obliged to draw up a list of all creditors known from the books and other documents of the creditor. In particular, the list shall record employees of the bankruptcy manager for the amounts of outstanding earnings. It wasn't done, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36244	Time. You're the only one to finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36245	I ask, "When will you somehow see what will happen to those workers who have not been paid?"
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36246	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36247	I ask the question of the interior minister – what about the criminal application 434/09 of 6.10.2009, which was filed against the bath "HK Kongrap" by Slobodan Stankovic, Darko Matijasic and Darko Pasic, the director general, as well as Vesna Djindjic. Since then, this application, like many others, has been in the drawer. The prosecutor is Vera Stanic. I have been informed of this huge problem that has not been solved in any way. It began in phases, the most interesting second phase of the destruction of “Kongrapa”, which is the fake property prospectus where it is falsely shown less by 1,804 square meters in a building in Terrazi 4 so before the sale, in Kosovo Street less by 1,257 squares and in Soko Banja less by 1,734 squares. This item is absolutely not solved in any way and it is obvious that there are reasonable doubts that someone is trying to cover up and preserve the people who bought the office space of wake up, in a smaller square than it is, and those applications are standing in the drawer of a competent prosecutor today. A question for Minister Sertic and Prime Minister Vukic regarding RTB Bor. So, we've seen that in the past few days civil protests have been organized in Bora because of increased pollution that is inconclusive even though we have a new smelter in Bora. This set of citizens is not political, therefore, not political parties behind them, but a set of desperate citizens who are at risk of health. My question is – when we know that this rally and this protest are not directed against RTB Bor, which feeds both Bor and the whole environment, but is directed against those who spent more than 300m euros in national money without solving the problem of pollution the day-to-day as we speak, why did Prime Minister Vukic open a smelter if he now invents new deadlines for months afterwards and does he know about it? What's his answer to this unsustainable situation? Also, did I ask this question once by government regulation, and I didn't get an answer, the obligation to test imported coals and concentrates on radioactivity was removed? Is it true that by regulation the government has removed the obligation to test for the radioactivity of imported coals and other solvent materials? A new question for Minister Sertic and Prime Minister – what is the monthly loss of "Smederevo Irons" and when will you publish a contract on the engagement of management, to what else are you obliged to do? How many of the 170m euros left, how many Serbian citizens have paid management to the Iron Administration, and how many are the losses? Why are you trying in November of the month, Prime Minister, Minister Sertic and Minister Vujovic, to sell Telekom, a profitable state, not a state-owned company, but with a majority state stake? Why are you trying to sell it at what cost? Are you aware of what this will mean for the citizens of Serbia, for our gross social product, for the prices that will be increased, for people who will be fired etc? When, within which time and in which way, you will abolish the hidden banking costs, which from ATMs to current accounts, etc. They're holding up? When will you legally accept the proposal, Minister Vujovic and Governor Tabakovic, to limit the banking interest of many of our green banks? When and in what way will you accept, Minister Vujovic, to solve the problem so-called. Swiss people, by making a course for the euro on the day of the loan, how is that resolved, for example, in Croatia? And if you won't, why won't you? When and how will you, Minister Vujovic, solve the problem of reduced pensions and salaries and when will you return them to the level at which they were, since it has proved that we can build a national stadium for 150m euros and pension savings is about 130-140m euros? Do the pensioners pay for the national stadium, Minister Vujovic, while our hospitals are failing? Question for Minister Stefanovic Dr Nebojsa – when will you solve one of the recorded attacks on DS members in various municipalities in local elections, for example in Vrbas? When are you going to process known perpetrators on Danil Bobic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36248	Your time has passed. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36249	Respected National Assembly presidents, being exiles, refugees from a displaced face is one of the greatest tragedies that can happen to an individual, part of a nation or an entire nation. In their long history, Serbs have experienced such tragedies countless times. There is almost no century in the history of the Serbian people in which he is not expelled from his centuries-old hearth, but Serbs have not dried up. Prosecution and refugee have almost become an integral part of the identity of the Serb people. That is why these newest refugees, exiles or emigrants from Syria and other countries affected by war, the Serbian people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, together with their government, headed by the Prime Minister, welcomed an open heart, with salt and bread and what they had. Serbia has shown itself to the face of the world as it truly is, welcoming and human. That is why they have given her great recognition of all relevant European and world factors, without exception. This proved Serbia to be a stable and well-organised country. Dear People's MPs, and the Serbian people from Krajina and Croatia in 1990-1995 experienced a tragedy in terms of exodus of Bible proportions, expelled from their centuries-old hearths, jobs, from their dwellings. The Croats then usurped at least 35,000 Serbian apartments. But, gentlemen, unfortunately for us, there were Serbs who usurped, i.e. alienated Serbian apartments in Croatia. Among them is suspected that Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, MP of the DS 2008-2012, president of the Intergovernmental Mixed Committee on Minority Rights between Serbs and Croats and president of the Committee on Status Affairs of the Serbs in the Diaspora, former director of the Novosadske Toplana, co-founder of the Association for History, Co-operation and Reconciliation in Golubic obrovačko, and now MP of the DS, i.e. the Association for Turnover, or what the Croats would say "Offiliation Association", professor of the legal group of courses at the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad. Dear gentlemen, I have been empowered by a large group of Krajisnik and 22 intellectuals from Obrovec and Benkovec to ask with regard to the parliamentary issue of Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. Is it true that Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, then an MP of the DS, and now "The Movement for a Turnover", from Novi Sad, usurped the apartment of 26 square meters of Professor Milica Badže and placed in it the Association for History and Reconciliation, on the 7th Street of Dukes Kurjaković in Obrovec, where Professor Milica Badja lived until 4 August 1995, until persecution? Secondly, is it true that Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, then an MP of the DS, was awarded as a special credit as a political partner of HDZ 260 kunas per month, as stated in the contract, quote: "to perform the work in order to promote the joint co-existence of Croats and Serbs in the area of Obrovec", finished the quote? Thirdly, is it true that this apartment is not a business space, nor is it a public space for some associations, but rather the apartment of Milica Badže, which has been locked most of the time, except when Professor Janko Vesenovic uses it as a cottage, quotes: "as a political partner of the HDZ from Serbia", completed the quote, on what time did she write "Free Dalmatia" on 11 December 2014, under the title "We shared apartments for themselves"? The homeowner of that apartment's apartment is Professor. Milica Bajja, and now an exile and tenant in Belgrade for 20 years. I note, the parents of Prof. The Badge militias were first fighters in the fight against fascism in World War II, and in 1995 they were exiled from Croatia and settled in Obilic, Kosovo and Metohija, where they died and buried. Brother Duško is a longtime director of the High School in Obrovec, a great fighter in the Croatian Parliament for the Rights of Serbs in Croatia, and in 1990 he was expelled and settled in Sombor, where he died of a serious illness. Brother Free today is an exile and lives in Bora, and he is one of the best lawyers in the country. The parents of Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović's Croatian Armed Forces set the house on fire in their native Golubic. The Croatian state has recovered. Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic was never an exile, nor did he own an apartment. To that end, I ask the foreign minister to examine this, in order to initiate moral, political and legal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36250	Thank you. Since none of the representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Biljana Ilic Stosic, Branko Ružić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Nada Lazic. You have received the resignation of MP Snezana Malovic, MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and suggests that the National Assembly within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. Accordingly, pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs The National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that it ceased its mandate, before the time it was elected, to MP Snezani Malovic on the day of his resignation. A consensual Law on the selection of Members of the People will be implemented to fill the vacancy of the MP in the National Assembly. Thank you. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and single search on points 6), 7) and 8) of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that today's session has been invited by the Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs Aleksandar Vulin, Zoran Lazic, Branka Gajic, Assistant Minister Vera Bozic Trefalt, Director of the Department of Safety and Health at Work and Dragan Vulovic, Head of the Department of Family Care and Social Protection of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), I am opening my Rules of Procedure a common principle and uniform search on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Safety and Health at Work, the Proposal for conditions to refer employees to temporary work abroad and their protection and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Jurisdiction, Procedural Law, Recognition and Implementation of Decisions and Cooperation on the Matter of Parent Responsibility of the Measures for Child Protection. Does Minister Alexander Vulin want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36251	Dear Presidents, Madam Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, today we recommend three legislative proposals, essentially two laws and one international convention. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Safety Act at Work is a law that has long been waiting to be passed, or complemented, to pass the current law. For the last time in this matter, this high house was engaged in 2005. Since then, the world has changed, the economy has changed, and since then, the ambience in which it's been working every day and how it's changed. It is up to us to discuss today the concrete solutions that, in this law or amendments to this law in the first place, have the task of improving the safety and protection of workers. An increase in the number of job victims, insufficient education of persons employed, and duty to care for safety and safety at work. Licensing companies, or licensed companies, which are obliged to transfer their knowledge to others, are not themselves professional enough to do so. The lack of criminal measures, the lack of prevention in every sense is the reason for this law to be passed. This law itself cannot solve all problems. This law is only part of the wider struggle of the entire community that counts and shows how much you care about the safety and protection of workers in the daily performance of their jobs. The highest percentage of injuries, and even 40% actually comes where you work on black, actually comes to workers who are unreported, thus they are not even dressed, they are not even protected. This law will help through concrete proposals that we hope to discuss and allow for a more effective fight and against the grey economy even through this law, although it is not its first and primary purpose, but it can help, of course, through the participation of appropriate inspections. Of course, this law, one of the reasons, of course, for its adoption, is to comply with the relevant conventions. We must adapt to EU legislation, and therefore we must accept the proposals and advice that have come to us at the proposal of this law. Also, which is particularly important. It is a significant change that for those who have so far done safety-related jobs at work are now significantly increasing the required level of their education, skills, knowledge, so that they can do their job. Until now, this matter has not been properly arranged, so far it has been allowed for those who need to teach others how to relate to safety and protection at work to be not an adequate educational profile, and then you can't expect the result of their work to be particularly good. Currently, 630 companies currently operate in our country with an adequate license for work security jobs. Now for the first time not only do we increase the level of their educational status but we limit the duration of the licence to five years and tighten the conditions for issuing the licence. This is a very important matter, because accordingly this matter cannot be left to everyone. The next law, i.e. amendments and additions to the laws that we recommend your attention, is the Law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. We have been waiting for this law since 1998, and you will admit from 1998 until today there are not a small number of our workers working abroad, the number has been increased, but if you are now asking me as Minister of Labour or you are asking any government body dealing with this problem how many of our workers are now abroad, where they work, under what conditions they work, who sent them there, who welcomed them there, I will have to tell you – I don't know, and nobody knows that. Legal solutions made in 1998, which because of its complicated procedure, which due to lack of criminal measures, which because of the simply inability to impose corresponds to the obligation of the employer or worker, were simply not applied. The 1998 law just doesn't apply. We don't know who works, we don't know who goes where, we don't know under what conditions he goes, we don't know what his work contract is, we don't know what his rights are, what his obligations are, we just don't know what happens to our citizens when they cross our borders. With these amendments and additions to this law, we are establishing an adequate obligation for the employer. We make it significantly easier for all the paperwork he needs, shorten his time for it. You'll see on the basis of two very simple documents, two simple papers that are obtained based on insight into the central register of mandatory social security, we'll know everything about whoever points, but we'll know who's being directed. We can't, and don't let our public have any delusions that we now think we can control the state of the site, for example, in Germany or Russia, where our worker goes. We can do it through another institute that's called, which is contracts bilateral, agreements, either between our governments, or between inspections responsible for handling these cases, and that's something we're working on intensively, but through this law we can't. What can we do? We can control the employer all the time who sent our employee we'll be able to control how he treats him, we'll be able to have among other things the contactees who will be obliged to give us every piece of information when we ask for it. We will be able to know whether the contractual obligations that have been concluded here and which have been delivered to us and for which we know what they are, whether they are truly respected and how they are respected. So, we control the employer in the territory of the Republic of Serbia who sent a worker, and through bilateral institutes we can at least part-independence on our country's relationship with another country, or our inspections with another inspection, we can also find out what's going on there. This law also provided for appropriate criminal provisions. The law wants to maximise the position of workers leaving to work abroad. The reason for this law was a tragedy that happened to our workers in Russia, but it was something that should have been done long ago, long before this tragedy and long before anything like this happened. I expect that we will have a fruitful debate on this issue and that we will all contribute together to making the text better. Of course, as well as the Law on Changes and Safety of Health at Work Supplements, the Law on Conditions for sending temporary staff to work abroad and their protection has passed a public debate. All the social partners participated in the public debate, all agreed on concrete legal solutions, numerous their objections and suggestions were also accepted, and the relevant professional associations dealing with these materials were consulted, and I am free to say that both laws, i.e. amendments and additions of these laws, have come upon the support of all professional circles and particularly social partners. The third law, the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Jurisdictions of the Law, the recognition of the enforcement of decisions and co-operation in the matter of parental responsibility and the measure for the protection of children, was concluded under the auspices of the Hague Conference on International Private Law in The Hague, 19 October 1996, and entered into force in 2002. So far, the convention, whose name I have read, has brought together 41 states, including all EU countries with the exception of Italy, which is also expected to join this Convention soon. The ratification of this Convention is also our obligation under Chapter 24, and its accession has been declared and discussed and positively decided by the Council of the Government for International Private Law. Essentially, to be very simple, the essential purpose of this Convention is to determine which laws will apply to certain parental rights depending on where they are, firstly, the child. So that's the essence of this convention, to be extremely simple. This Convention shall be decided on the basis of an institute called the usual residence of a child, so the place where the child is staying and to tell you the very definition, under the usual residence means the place where the person is normally staying for a long time, regardless of the purpose of the stay and independent of the registration of the competent authority or residence permit. Essentially, this regulates which legislation refers to a specific case. The basis for this is the usual residence, and of course there is the possibility that the competent authorities can agree on what is best, in particular in this case we are talking about children. So to agree which legislation will apply. This is something that helps our legislation, this is something that protects the rights of a child, this is something that helps our citizen and when he's in another country. You will also see in the course of the debate, we have used our right to disagree with one article 55, if I am not mistaken, with one member of the convention, who is said to always decide on the property of the child on the basis of our legislation. So, the property of a child located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, I am talking about our child, our citizen, will always be discussed about its availability and determine who will manage it in the territory and in accordance with our legislation. It's our right to this convention, we used it right, we supported all the other members, of course. I hope I wasn't too busy, so here we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36252	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word is made by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, rapporteur in front of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36253	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the Committee on the Rights of the Child held at its session on 9 October, discussed the proposal for a law confirming the Convention on Jurisdiction by means of a metric right of recognition and enforcement of co-operation in the matter of parental responsibility and child protection measures and unanimously decided to propose the adoption of this Convention to the National Assembly. Why? Because this Convention on Jurisdiction is a meradical right of recognition and enforcement, co-operation in matters of parental responsibility and protection measures, in fact a roof convention and a Convention which, in an effective and functional manner, implies the implementation of previously ratified conventions by this National Assembly. The Committee proposes that the National Assembly adopt this Convention on the grounds that it, from one particular aspect, from an aspect that is most important for a child, discusses parental childhood, regulates the issue of parental responsibility, but not only the issue of parental responsibility, but also the issue of representing children in cross-border situations. Unfortunately, all children for various reasons do not have the opportunity to live in their parent families, so this Convention is adequately governed by other institutions that are states under obligation to enable children, which are institutions of custody, foster care and representation of children in cross-border situations. This Convention, otherwise signed by 41 countries, of EU member states, has only yet to ratify Italy, but of course this Convention on our legal system relating to child protection is important for the purpose of opening Chapter 24 which also refers to the protection of children and to the harmonisation of our legislation in this area with EU legislation. What I must point out is that this Convention, in accordance with the most important convention, which is the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, is best protected by the interests of children and as a priority and in the focus of its interest, precisely in accordance with this Convention, puts the best interests of the child in relation to this taking of all other measures. What I must also point out is that this Convention allows the co-operation of central authorities, but not only the co-operation of central authorities, as regards the exchange of information, relating to the legislative framework and the applicable laws, but also the exchange of information, concerning the availability of child protection services in the concrete state. Also, this Convention is also important in terms of recognition and enforcement, especially because it is not necessary to initiate subsequent proceedings, and this is very important from the point of view of child protection, especially in so-called emergency situations, when it is urgent to apply emergency protection measures, which are child protection measures, which have been abused or neglected in their family. In order to protect the best interests of children, all other ratified conventions, the National Assembly of the Day of Votes, adopts and ratifys this Convention as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36254	Anyone else on the committee want a word? (No) The word has an apostle of the people, Anamaria Vicek, of those who are empowered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36255	Dear Presidents, ministers with associates, honourable MPs, we have three very important laws in front of us today. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Safety and Health at Work, Proposal for a law on conditions for sending staff to temporary work abroad and their protection, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Jurisdiction of the Law of Merit, and recognition of the enforcement of decisions and co-operation in the matter of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children. I would like to express the support of these laws on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, and to confirm that in the voting day, we will support all three laws by voting. I will start with this last law mentioned, namely, the reason for the need to confirm this law is so obvious. This Convention was created as an amendment to the 1961 Convention, also taking into account the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, 1989, to cover the Hague Conference on International Private Law, was concluded on 19 October 1996 and entered into force in 2002. Although we're not in a particularly late time, such as Belgium only ratified the Convention on 28 May 2014, and Italy has not signed it yet, yet it is important for Serbia to adopt the Convention right now, because for the EU Member States and this Convention are part of the communal law, and these countries that join the EU are obliged to adapt their legislation and to join these Treaties. It is important to point out that Chapter 24 of the European Commission's 2014 progress report on the Republic of Serbia states that the Republic of Serbia has not yet joined the Convention, and the signing of the convention is one of the necessary steps that the Republic of Serbia must take in the process of Eurointegration. It is important to note that the Convention establishes the principle of equal treatment for children living in the same country. International jurisdiction is determined on the basis of the usual residence of the child, so that children receive equal treatment, equal rights regardless of nationality. However, in the case of children who fall into a particularly endangered category, refugee children, children without a normal residence and internationally displaced children, the convention determines the regular jurisdiction of the authorities of the state, whose territory the child is on, which is certainly monitoring the principles of the best interest of the child. The SVM parliamentary group will, of course, support the ratification of this Convention. As for the Law on Conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection, it is important to point out several facts. The need for the adoption of this law exists because they are subject to Article 110. The Employment and Insurance Act, 23 May 2009, ceased to apply the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Citizens of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to work abroad. This was an important law that regulated the area of protection of temporary workers abroad, the procedure of employment by foreign employers and the return to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the obligation of businesses, other legal persons and entrepreneurs to send temporary workers abroad, employers' obligations and employees during work abroad and others, including, in particular, the identification of procedures and conditions of recruitment of employees based on international scientific, technical and educational-cultural co-operation. It was certainly necessary to make a full revision of all the provisions, so that employers from the territory of the Republic of Serbia could effectively and competitively operate on foreign markets in accordance with international standards, and on the other hand, it is necessary to determine and protect employees who are posted to temporary work abroad, especially when seen from the perspective of modern labour migration, i.e. preventing illegal migration. It should be pointed out that employees can be referred to temporary work abroad for two purposes. It is one reference to work abroad, and another to professional training and training for employers' needs, which can also be expected to increase the need for any new job creation by foreign investors and multinational companies in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. There are three significant newspapers in this law. The first newspaper is the process of applying the employee, preparing the employee for sending timely work abroad. The second newspaper is the notification process, which informs the competent ministry of sending temporary staff to work abroad, and there is a newspaper on the one hand in that it reduces the scope of procedures and administrations for employers, and on the other hand enables better control and keeping records of the competent authority, in particular by connecting with the existing central register base. The third newspaper is in fact an increase in the efficiency of staff protection, as precise provisions prescribe co-operation and exchanges of information between the authorities and organisations performing the tasks of the state administration in relation to the protection of employees, which are addressed to work abroad, which are the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, the RFZO, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the diplomatic consular representation of the Republic of Serbia abroad. It is important to note that the statistics of those bodies were very different, so the ministry has data on about a thousand employees who are posted to temporary work abroad, while based on the data of the Republic Fund, and so there are relevant data, namely, the Fund keeps records of insurance companies sent to countries with which Serbia has concluded social insurance agreements, and in recent years there have been more than 7,000. Since the sublegislative act should prescribe the appearance of a form called "a notification of the posting of a member of temporary work abroad", for which a period of 45 days from the entry into force of this law is set, which is eight days after the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", so that the start of the application of the law is foreseen within two months of the entry into force. The transitional and final provisions also set out that all procedures for sending employees to temporary work abroad, which began before the date of entry into force of this law, will be terminated according to those rules under which they are to begin. This is a significant and good law from the perspective of the competitiveness of the labour market, but also from the point of view of the protection of employees who are directed to temporary work abroad, so the SVM parliamentary group will certainly support their votes and this law in the voting day. The third law that is before us today, the bill on amendments to the Law on Safety and Health at Work is also a significant and good law that we will support. An important safety and health law was adopted in 2005, and some shortcomings have been observed during the application of the law that these changes and additions should improve. First of all, it was necessary to specify who this law applies to. The application of the law saw that the provisions of the law could not apply to specific activities of the military and police, and it was necessary to specify the meaning of individual expressions, periodic training checks, as well as continuous training of the person's knowledge of safety and health at work and other details relating to the provisions of this law. There are three significant newspapers. The first news is precision, the definition of employer. In fact, Article 2 describes exactly who the employer is. The employer is also considered a natural person who, on any legal basis, employs an employee, but is considered an exception to the person who provides the work in the household and the holders of the agricultural land, who carry out business with family members, agricultural households in accordance with the rules on agriculture, while under the provisions of this law, individuals who carry out business or other activities continue to fall under the provisions of this law. Another newspaper is the introduction of the term "prevention" despite the precise definition of "prevention" in Article 2. Proposal for a law relating to Article 4 of the Law, where the term ‘prevention’ is precisely specified as a set of measures aimed at preventing or reducing the risk of work, but also in the case of Article 3. The draft law relating to the amendment and addition of Article 6 of the Law, not only replaces the termological word ‘invalid’ with the words ‘a person with disabilities’, but the same article also complements the provision relating to preventive measures relating to the safety and health of young people, women employed during pregnancy, as well as the breast-feeding, which is an extremely important step which we certainly welcome. The third newspaper is also the most important for national minorities, i.e. SVM. In Article 2, point 24 is added immediately, which explains that the language which the employee understands is the mother tongue, the language which is officially used in the territory in which the employer is established, i.e. the employee does the jobs and who speaks, reads and writes, but also includes a language that is established as a condition for the performance of the job. What is significant is that the law provides in Article 24 that if an employer gives to the use of equipment for work or equipment for personal protection at work or gives them dangerous chemical material for which there is even a form, a safety sheet, the employer must provide a translation of the documentation, i.e. a safety list into a language that the employees understand, which is an extremely significant step. We point out that it is certainly commendable that the law particularly regulates the protection of safety and health at work when they are employed by so-called employees. Specially sensitive groups, such as persons with disabilities, pregnant or breast-feeding mothers. Finally, let's point out once again that the SVM parliamentary group will support all three laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36256	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36257	The Honorable Chairman and Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, all three laws that are on the agenda today have something to do with the Single Serbia programme and of course we of Unity Serbia will support all three laws. Mr. Minister, once you said that for workers in Serbia, the greatest stress is when they lose their jobs or when they don't get paid. I'm just adding to that finding of yours, and I agree with her that there may be even more stress to those who don't have any jobs. The Ministry of Labour pays great attention to safety at work and today the law is proof of that, but in practice and in the field what's different from this law and you're self-aware, are actually things that we all disagree with here. The intention of this law is for a worker in his workplace to be absolutely safe, secure, to know what damage is at work, who pays for the damage and how it is prevented. Because of this good law, I repeat, we of JS will give support. In the work security segment a large role is played by inspection services and above all, one prevention is needed, because in the future it can reduce the large number of costs incurred. It is necessary to invest in advance to preserve what is most important, which is the life and health of these workers and people. I read that the Director of Security, who is here with us today, once stated that a large part of the talk between the employer and the employee is a big part of the stress removal, and you're 100% right. I just want to add that, unfortunately, it has very little in Serbia, these companies are rare. We can see that in some American movies. Since I come from a tourist resort where this team of Bilding is present, from Vranjska Banja, where these companies that are serious come with their workers, I've had a chance to see what it looks like and that's a great thing. But I repeat, such situations in Serbia, unfortunately, are very few. One of my proposals would be that we could do a good analysis and see what these inspections are doing on the ground. I suggest we do one analysis to know how many employees work in the public sector, how many do they work in the real sector, how many do they work in those film companies we talked about, how many do they work without being reported at all, so this work on black and how many are there that they don't work anywhere. Such analyses can certainly scare us, but I suggest you do them, because they should match the reports of the inspectors on the ground. I'd like us to get a similar report once, that we can compare what it is to what you're asking them to do, what it is to be their sphere of interest on the ground, and what it is they deliver to you in paper. I don't want to quote union representatives, because there are 22,000 of them, and everyone says they're pushing for workers' rights. I'd just like to say that from the middle that I come from, regardless of all of these union leaders' urgents, people mostly work for minimum personal income, they're lucky if they have it, and there are those who, unfortunately, don't work anywhere. One of the examples that may be specific, as regards safety at work and this matter, one of the JKPs from Vrnjak Banja, called "Borjak" and deals with urban greenery. The question arises how can we control their safety at work if they are the only ones who have to maintain the most beautiful parks in Serbia, Vrnjačka Banja, and are not registered to pension and health insurance? It is not only about the safety of these workers, but also about the safety of their families, since they are not insured. I would ask the minister to pay attention to this and if he is able to, with his professional services, give us a proposal and a solution to how to get out of this emerging problem, which has primarily happened to some executives who have led these public enterprises back for years. As a rule in Serbia, none of them have ever responded, and today 250 workless workers remain. It is not easy for employers to respect every time all the safety conditions are at work, because they also work in some turbulent times. We are aware of what the global economic crisis has done to large systems, not just these small employers. But we have to fight to make a difference between those employers who are at the expense of undeclared workers and the reduced safety of workers at work drastically rich and those who fight to preserve these businesses and how many of those jobs for those workers who work in them. I congratulate you once again on this good law. I want to draw everyone's attention that the task of all of us who are involved in politics is to make it easier for you who are passing these laws, and above all for workers, to fight to create new jobs in this environment by bringing investors. A good example is what happened two days ago in Jagodina, where Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, Ambassador of Italy and President of the Jagodina City Assembly Mr Dragan Markovic Palma, opened another factory in an industrial zone in Jagodina. Why does it matter? Because by opening new jobs and those workers who do not have the courage to report their employers or to stay away from the place where they are at risk of safety at work, and they have no alternative, this way we help them indirectly and directly. We of JS, I repeat once again, advocate the rights of workers, and that will be another additional moment to vote for these laws that you have brought here today before us. The second law is a draft law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. You told us today, Minister, at the beginning, that the exact record of how many there are and where they are not. One of the data we got in the material that only in the Russian Federation has about 15 thousand working on black, but we can't confirm that because a large number is mostly there on some tourist visas and these are limited time limits as long as they can stay there. But the fact is, they all work there. We witnessed various frauds experienced by our workers who went to work in these countries through some employers who abused it. We know, you just cited some examples of how many people were killed without any rights being able to achieve it. That's why it's good that this 1998 law is finally likened to a situation on the ground, with a real picture. I'm sure at least something will change better in the next period. You've given enough information about this law, so I don't want to repeat what you've already said. I would like to point out that before us and the law on the confirmation of the Convention on Jurisdiction, the Irregular Law, the recognition of the enforcement of decisions and co-operation in the matter of parental responsibility and the measure for the protection of children. Sure, I said, we're up for these conventions, and we're gonna back her up too. If you'll allow me, Chairman, I'll just take a little bit off the subject, and yet it has something to do with this convention and it has to do with the children. This is a situation where I would also like to commend the present minister, a situation where I want to praise the government of Serbia and all citizens of Serbia, who in this situation where we have a huge wave of immigrants coming to Europe, perhaps without some laws and some major legal obligations, above all from some morals and personal ethics, have done their best to show the world one true picture, a picture of Serbia and how we are on the ground defending and fighting precisely what the minister and the ministry that proposed these laws are today. Once again, we from J.S. will support all three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36258	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36259	I thank all previous speakers for their carefully read suggestions and for the great effort they have made. Here are just a few answers to specific questions. As for the company you mentioned, we'll check it out immediately, it's absolutely inadmissible. Whether it's a public sector or a private sector, it's exactly the same for us, it can't be done undeclared. Right away, and very soon you'll get concrete results. Over the past eight months, labour inspection has carried out 39,609 various inspections. This is a 29% increase compared to 2013 and a 16.5% increase compared to 2014. And how we take care of this particular role, and that it gives results, that approach and that kind of work. Namely, in the first nine months of 2015, a 10.401 person was found working on black. Of these 6,183 persons were immediately reported on the basis of a work inspection solution. So that's our way, except, of course, fighting for a better economic environment, of course, better legal solutions, lower tax rates, all that is available to one country, but here I am speaking specifically from the domain of the Ministry of Labour, for which we are in charge. So you can measure how many people are employed, how many people are found working on black and how many inspection controls. So that's our way and there's no discrimination. We are entering public enterprises and private businesses, especially because safety and protection at work are infinitely important to us. In the first eight months, we carried out 13.291 inspections from the field of safety and safety at work. That's essential. As I said before, it's something we all have to imagine, 40% of all death injuries at work coming from working on black. Untrained worker, unarmed worker, it's an accident that's just waiting to happen. We are, of course, fighting this and the inspection find and prevention in every way, but that's something that the whole society has to help us with, and there's the role of both trade unions and employers' organisations. Of course, you're absolutely right. Until the situation in the labour market is changed so that the less labour supply, than the need, unfortunately, is now really not the case, you will always have that level of fear. This law and this debate, all of this is a way to tell our citizens - talk to us, when you have a problem, talk to us and you won't get hurt. Trust your country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36260	I thank you, Mr. Minister, the Word has a People's MP, Ljiljana Kosoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36261	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, today we have three laws on the agenda that definitely regulate issues from their fields, and therefore MPs SPO and DHSS will support these legal solutions and vote for them. The first is the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Safety Act. I must start by pointing out the rule that every dinar invested in the safety and health of work is paid twice, both for workers and family, and for the environment, employers, society, and the health system. It is much easier to prevent work injuries, professional illnesses, work-related diseases and other harmful consequences for the health of the employee than to treat them. We have had situations that do not involve employers in legislation, that labour law is less priority than all other rights and obligations of the employer, disrespect of obligations by the workers themselves regarding safety and health at work and whether appeals are necessary for employers to comply with the rules on working at high temperatures or low temperatures, if there are legal solutions and sanctions. Amendments and additions to the Law on Safety and Health at Work are being made precisely to specify the terminology and alignment with Directives 89/391 of the European Economic Community, and the provisions become clearer and require respect without delay. The law does not apply to the performance of specific services, such as military service, police affairs, protection and rescue from the work of the competent authorities, where safety and health issues are governed by special regulations and laws. Here in this law is the precise concept of the employer responsible for the application of safety and health measures at work, training for safe and healthy work, above all, the making of risk assessment acts, examination and verification of work equipment, testing of working environment conditions, noises, vibrations, chemical pests and other harmful influences. The concept of prevention of the process of security of measures, both in the workplace and in the employer's work environment, is also specified, and in order to prevent or reduce the risk of work, such as the defined language that employees will use. Employment of persons with disabilities also creates a legal basis for prescribing measures for the safety of young people, women employed during pregnancy and childbearing employees. Normally, all of this is in line with the European Economic Community Directive and there is a clear indication of the concept of risk groups, and especially sensitive groups that must be protected against the dangers that can affect them. Furthermore, which is commendable for this law, compliance with the said Directive, and where the employer has a duty to ensure the safety and health of workers in every aspect of the work. In the context of liability, the employer will take measures, including prevention of professional risk and security of information and training and the provision of necessary organisations and funds. What are the measures that the employer must take, first of all: risk avoidance, risk assessment that can be avoided, the fight against risk at source, the adjustment of individual work, and when it comes to constructing a job, the choice of work equipment, the choice of working methods and production methods, with a view to avoiding monotony work and work at a certain rate and reducing their fact of health, because in such situations injuries occur at work, as the minister pointed out. Then, adapting to technological progress, replacing dangerous less dangerous or harmless means, giving priority to collective safeguards and giving responsible and appropriate instructions to workers. The employer’s obligation is to report immediately, from the creation, oral or written form, to the competent inspection of the work carried out in the removal of major malfunctions or handicrafts on the facility which may endanger the functioning of the technical and technological system or the performance of the work. The employer's obligation is to secure measures against fire, rescue and evacuation. The paper is that safety and health tasks at work can be performed by the employer in certain less risky activities, and if he has less than 20 employees and is not obliged to have a professional examination of the practical skills to carry out these tasks. On the other hand, in certain high-risk activities, the level of competence rises. Minimum higher education in primary academic studies, three-year studies in the relevant scientific and professional field. This law makes it clear that the conditions for issuing a licence for the performance of health safety at work, as well as the period of validity of the licence issued, the withdrawal of the licence, as well as the measures for the prohibition of the conduct of operations in the course of supervision until the conditions are met. National recognitions have also been identified in order to promote the promotion of health security at work, which will certainly give the incentive to do much more in this area. That's why I thought this law needed all MPs to support it. The second is the draft law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. As we have already heard, this area was governed by the 1998 Law on the Protection of Citizens of the SRJ, and then by Article 110. Employment and unemployment insurance laws of 2009. However, the modern way of doing business, market requirements, international standards have brought employers into great trouble in carrying out contractual obligations with foreign partners, because in our country this area has not been effectively defined. On the other hand, the problem is the protection of temporary workers working abroad, and we only remember newspaper articles, modern slavery, labour exploitation in Russia, Africa, employers threatening workers abroad, the lives and work of our workers abroad in impossible conditions, injured workers in a fire in Siberia, and so they could invariably insult them. The proposed legislative solution aims to regulate the rights and obligations of employers and employees, ensure adequate protection of employees, the procedure for sending temporary staff abroad on exactly three basis for reference which are clearly specified, the co-operation of state authorities in the process of protecting employees, monetary sanctions for employers who are not reported by the posting of employees or not providing employees with their rights. It should be noted that the law will not prevent domestic companies from operating abroad, as well as the opening of a foreign market for domestic products, but will ensure the protection of employees with regard to the achievement of adequate safety protection of health at work, working conditions and accommodation, travel costs and other costs related to abroad. This law also facilitates employers of ministry notification procedures, cut deadlines, reduces documentation, and uses data already reported by the employer to the central register of compulsory social security. The law also represents a fight against black labour in Serbia, as employers will act in accordance with the law or pay high fines. It is an obligation for the employer to designate an employee representative to be a contact person for each problem, to prepare an employee before referring to work abroad, as well as to conclude an annex to a working contract with specific items. The law offers modern solutions adapted to the modern market and a new concept in the process of notifying state authorities of supervision and co-operation, with the aim of preventing and correcting irregularities in the process of sending employees to temporary work abroad, as well as identifying and regulating from specific forms of posting of employees to temporary work abroad and introducing special protection of individual categories of population. Finally, we have a proposal for a law on the validation of the Convention on Jurisdiction, Merit law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and co-operation on the matter of parental responsibility and the measure of child protection. This bill lays down standards in the exercise and protection of children's rights. This Convention, together with the other two UN Conventions, the Convention on Child Abduction and the Convention on the adoption of Children, is now the third link that makes the whole into child protection. That is why it is necessary to confirm it in parliament, because it has been ratified by all EU countries except Italy, and Serbia is now preparing for the euro integration and the opening of chapters, including chapters 24 of freedom and security, chapters on human freedoms. This bill respects, above all, international law, simplifies the procedure, enters the enforcement procedure, but it should be noted that not all decisions will be carried out if it is opposed to the child's best interests and it implies the protection of the rights and property of a minor child and therefore the bill represents the protection of the child's best interests and I hope that all MPs in parliament will support it. To put it forward, once again, the SPO MPs and the DHSS will vote for these laws in the voting day, because they are indeed the right solution to problems in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36262	Thank you, Mrs. Kosaric. The word has a folk emissary of Milena Bycanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36263	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Ministers with associates and respected fellow Members of Parliament, I will immediately say that the SDPS will support all three, or two draft laws and conventions. We consider these two laws and conventions of great importance. I'm a little sorry because the hall is empty because when we talk about the draft law on protection at work, we're talking about the essentials of the most important thing that makes it a characteristic of the human race. We're talking about work and talking about life. I'll be a little personal, when I read the law, I've had pictures of my life, because we all have a lot of experience in different ways on this subject, a lot of information, and I've been kind of through my head the whole time going through a sentence from a pretty story where a mother who doesn't have her children, but she cares about another one, she says about one of her protégé – she doesn't know what work is and because it's life. I think these laws today need to help us come, say, or try to make efforts to find a balance between what life is and what work is. These are two absolutely inalienable values, and these are two values for which, of course, we as society and civilization and humanity are always tense and make efforts to enlarge them, make them more meaningful and, of course, provide for the life of a decent man. We think that with the implementation of these two laws, of course I will always tell the Convention to protect and fundamental human rights. It protects the right to work, protects and meets the conditions that this work is realized and worthy of man and of course what is important in the approach to solving this problem, and yet it is one of my own personal thinking, at work our lives pass. Why not make this work and the time we spend under these working circumstances a noble, human, and decent man to get all the results that every society wants? Minister, I think the law is good. The law provides a lot of opportunities. The law gives a lot of commitment to employers. Workers have one thing, it's not easy, and it's to listen, understand, apply, to realize that it's their interest to be a control body and, by careful analysis and use of this right, to contribute to the time and development and development, as labour technology will, of course, develop. Why do I think the law is good? What more reason would I single out? Because it seems to me that in all these obligations imposed by all the actors in the process of work, I see one need to protect the principles of transparency, the principle of the public. If there is a clear number of employer's obligations in terms of all the conditions and preconditions and what activities to be carried out in order to be a work-protected worker, in order to provide him with conditions for healthy work and if all these elements are met and if the employer is obliged to form a committee to allow members of the Committee who will have insight into all types of records, in all types of documentation, in all types of inspection findings, suggestions, in all ideas and recommendations to improve working conditions, then I see that it is good. The worker must not remain informed. The employer must not deny it, because if anything in that field happens, any secret place, any unresolved dilemma, we will enter the danger problem and something will happen. I think it's very important. I see the whole law and I see it as a prevention, because everything that happens in every item of anyone who is in charge of the realisation of this law, if everyone does their part of the job, we're going to have an extraordinary prevention. Of course, there is absolutely no protection. Nothing is perfect and it's impossible, but it just must seem that the number of situations and circumstances that can affect, God forbid, the fatal outcome, the injury, the illness at work, must be reduced. I hope that the progress of production, that new technologies, that new employers, as well as those that exist now, that new educated workers will have a clear insight into the importance of this topic. What does it take to simply be able to achieve, to say, the preconditions for achieving this law? It is necessary, above all, to understand one of the most important circumstances, and these are that the most significant resources of a country are its people. They're people. The state wants this law to create conditions for the employer to care for these people in an adequate way. I don't really want to put employers in any bad context. There are people who are willing to do some other work, which I would say simply and simply know how to do. They're right. The state should give the framework for all activities to take place in one legal, fair, fair way, in a society of equal chances, so when we give the employer such an opportunity and such an obligation and the worker will have the opportunity to recognise that circumstance socially, and then we will get what this law should enable, and this is a motivated worker. The worker he cares about, who can see every day the activity of his employer or his colleague or the person in charge of security at work, who has a sense of concern, will be motivated to work. Sam will take more care of his personal safety, he will contribute more himself to, say, bad places and black spots overcoming, making a contribution, because who's best to know than who does? It's hard to assume. We've got licenses, we've got conditions to get under, but somehow, I'm always on the side of the most original thing in the business. It's their daily experience and daily thinking about what's going on and what can be improved. For this reason, I find this law significant, I find it very important, and I expect that as a society, we will have the strength to do whatever it takes to make this law real. We have an enemy in that sense. What are enemies? The grey economy, a small labour market, a large number of unemployed people, and then I wonder, looking at the members of the law, so I say, Article 45, 46, 47, 48, I especially record as very important, but I wonder – will the person in charge of safety at work be able to do his own work in the present conditions? Will he have the courage to say, and the courage, I can stay here, to his employer, who he depends on? His existence depends on whether he can do whatever it takes and how we grow up, I want to use that term, how we're going to grow up to solve these problems without thinking there's anything contrary to someone's interest. There's nothing against anyone's interest. In that sense, I think, that, I'll tell the workers, I'll say all of us, we're all in some kind of risk, some less, but here we're still more concerned with people who are in jobs who are assessed as high-risk. I may have lost my mind a little, but I just want to say that the application of this law and everything that can be a consequence can have a significant impact on what our second law is, and that's labour mobility. If we have a serious, professional, enlightened worker, we'll be more competitive on the labour market and we'll be able to achieve our own economic need, and in that sense, but what I can eventually put as a questionnaire, that's how we're going to, I mean, it's not even a questionnaire, it's kind of a concern – solving the unemployed issues. I'm really bringing him into contact with the fulfillment of this law. I remembered what I was going to say. I think that this law significantly enables all partners in social dialogue, unions above all, to give them a new meaning and a new role. Why? The scale's up. In agreement, we have made proposals for a solution to the Labour Protection Act. We have raised the scale and now everyone has a more task in the fight to advance all these rights and preserve all these rights. In the end, I expect it to come back again, of course, through one bigger, more significant evaluation of the work in this country at all, because, let me tell you, when I think about it, I don't have to think about what we are here, if I just remember that in my youth when I was educated the most popular thesis was – learning that you're not working and no one can pay me as little as I can do. So we have to overcome this relationship, and we also change that relationship through the relationship about our own evaluation of our engagement. When we talk about this second law, I really see a great advantage in its existence, first of all, because we said that there is nothing that regulates such a problem so far, or there is a law from 1980 and 1998. All that time is far behind us. Of course we have a lot of information about RS citizens going abroad under fully defined conditions. We've heard many very shocking stories about workers who participated in the construction of a large facility related to the Olympics a few or two years ago. We've had a great tragedy of Siberian workers, and I see this law above all as the need for the state to regulate the conditions under which employees leave. The employees must be absolutely informed. Their consent is required. It is also possible without consent if the contract of work implies the possibility of reference. However, what is also very important and I believe that the minister has a first explanation, but I think that when we talk about the security issue of workers working abroad, regulations are applied if the RS regulations or country rules are more favourable. If we start to analyze where our workers are going, which areas, maybe it's better somewhere, but I think this law is good enough. But I still think that maybe our workers working abroad could have an internally designated one person who would worry about their safety at work, because the employer is far away and the possibility, so to speak, of communication and of pointing to some problem this guy might be faster. Well, it's just, let me say, kind of my suggestion. When we talk about notifying the employer of the competent state authority, which, of course, is primarily the Ministry of Labour, about referring to work, I would just like the minister to explain to me, simply looking for an explanation why the first firm sends the day before sending its employees to work abroad, she sends a notice of reference, and then since leaving they have a deadline, if I understand correctly, eight days to give all the information about employees, work positions and all the conditions under which the employees left? I think that employer who sends an employee abroad, he knows who's going, and he's notifying you, so I'm guessing he knows who's going. So, I think that it might just simplify the procedure, but it is quite, of course, unambiguous to know who and under what conditions goes abroad, to protect his labour law and, of course, by communicating with the competent, or representative authorities of the Republic of Serbia in countries where our workers are referred to work can have the necessary information and that in the event of some extraordinary circumstances, and that the world is very turbulent and very often happens, they can step up to help and, of course, do what is most important to the public and, if necessary, support for the evacuation of workers in particularly threatened areas when something happens. Something doesn't have to happen just because it's a turbulent political area, but because there are simply forces of nature that make up their own and, of course, we can't always have influence. So, here, somehow and the time has passed, I would end up thinking that this society is responsible for creating the best working conditions possible, because there are few employees, because we tend to say that we know how hard those who work live, but only those who live hard can testify about it and who live like that. We need to make this society more humane, more productive and fairer. We have to do everything to make it one of our national fortunes in a more human and fairer way, because all the laws that are being discussed here I always remember at the end of something that is like a lightmotive to me, which is that democratic opportunities in our country are bad, a large number of people leave the country annually, and everyone who remains deserves to live well and quality and deserve to have conditions for that kind of life. I think this ministry has a big and serious task in this regard and I hope it's a success.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36264	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36265	I thank the honourable MP for his efforts to take all these legal solutions seriously and seriously studioically and to make concrete remarks and concrete advice. Of course, you're right, there's nothing without prevention. None of these laws are made with the idea of being punished, but designed to help both the employer and the employee. When you have clear rules, when you know what awaits you, what are your rights and obligations, I believe it helps both sides, if we can even talk about the sides, but let's say so. You know what an employer's obligation is, you know what a worker's obligation is, and you know what a worker's right is. In particular, it is seen, of course, through the Act on Safety and Work Protection, certainly, but I see that you have devoted quite carefully to the law and the Law on the posting of workers to temporary work abroad. We can't make anyone, not even now, not by this law, that the employer and the worker don't agree to work on black. He just crosses our border and no one can ask him where he's going and why he's going there. He can go to any country in the world if he doesn't need a visa. He can just walk away, it's his right. He doesn't have to report it to us. If the employer is unconscious and the worker accepts it, but then he has to be aware, and that's why it's good to talk about all this, to use the instruments of the public, that the worker knows what he's losing, to lose protection, to lose pension insurance, not to know where he's going essentially. That's why we here very precisely predicted what kind of contract he must have, that the labour contract annex is signed before he leaves the country, not on the plane, but before. We won't agree to a different annex and the employer will be punished for it. Why have we introduced this provision one day? First, earlier this provision was just 30 days and it was really too long, especially since the market is dynamic, especially in large enterprises. This is on the suggestion of large enterprises, such as the Energy Project, which already have secure jobs, which have already been working for many years. At some point, it simply takes him to send an engineer or an expert he didn't know about three days ago. But he has the possibility, we give him this space, with all these valid, of course, obligations that are for him, and that the central register of mandatory social security does everything right, but we're giving him the opportunity to get out of that Corps of people he already has, who, of course, signed consent and everything that's already going on along with it, to react urgently because of something that's happening to him and because of some urgent and urgent need. We were also trying to make it as simple as possible for the employer to have an interest in avoiding us, but to report to us everything he's going to do. Better for him, and certainly better for the worker. As for the safety of security at work of the work of the work abroad, therefore, we have come from the assumption that our standards are quite high, as they are. But even if they weren't, they're the ones we know. We know what they are and we know exactly what they are referring to. That's why you have this person who's contacting the person and she's in charge of it too. He can also be asked as a state authority and a worker for any rights and ask – why in this country, wherever I am, I have no helmet, because I know that under our Safety Protection Act, I have to have a helmet on the construction site? Of course, there's this man who needs to explain it to him. If something had happened, far away, it would have been followed by a law that was more favourable to the worker. If he was supposed to have a helmet, why didn't he have a helmet? The employer will be responsible for that. So, we've come from that assumption. Of course, if it's a higher standard, of course it's better to apply a higher standard, but the employer is obliged to know the legal rules. As you know, we have foreseen in the very law that the employer is obliged, as you have noticed, to make known workers what they are, what the rights are, and, among other things, the social political situation. So you know what country you're going to. It's not the same if you're working on an oil platform where there's a possibility that the Islamic State could break into an oil platform or work in Norway. Same job, you'd say, but it's not the same, because the worker should certainly be warned about it. So, these are the obligations of the employer and the worker is obliged by his signature to confirm that he has undergone proper training, that he is familiar with everything, among other things, and that he is familiar with the social political circumstances, but also with his income, that he is also familiar with the accommodation he will have. He has everything to read, he has to sign it, and he has to make it known to us as a state body that he knows it all. Then, when you have all these fuses, if it comes to where it's supposed to be in a double room, and it's in a ten-bed room, he already knows something's wrong and he's got someone to talk to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36266	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36267	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, respected guests from the Ministry of Labour, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have before us laws that are very important, which regulate the rights practically and protection of our employees in our businesses, in our companies, and a law that we must very carefully and after the debate in Parliament to conduct in the months and years ahead. As it was said from the ministry itself that the last law here was in 2005 or 2006, so some members of the law were not implemented, it is necessary that each law be implemented for the benefit of our citizens. When we talk about the safety of our workers, our citizens who are at work, it is very important to say that work and illness injuries are very common and that they interfere with and interrupt production, lead to lower income of the employee himself, lead to lower income of their family and lead to lower income of our country, our national social product, our budget. What is very important is to realize that when the Economic Summit happens in Davos, among other things, some wise economic heads also discuss the health aspect of workers in many countries and many capital will not enter a country where you have a large percentage of workers' injuries, nor will they enter a country where you have a high percentage of a particular disease disease, whether it is caused by some noxies in the workplace or is the risk factor that employees have in their private life. What I want to point out, unfortunately, is that Serbia's citizens are in the infamous first positions in Europe in cardiovascular disease, cardiovascular mortality, cardiovascular mortality, high rates of malignancy, high mortality, and rates of mortality from malignant tumours that we need to analyze and find the reasons for all these diseases that affect our citizens, which make them ill, which is why they are working less capable than healthy workers who work in collectives. Let's see if their rights were respected in some areas. Whether adequate health care has not taken place in working communities in some areas of the work community. There are many noxies. As a professor of medical school, I can tell you that those noxes can cause damage to our patient's health or our employee's health. Well, then I can tell you that in many factories you have noise as a risk factor, noise as in the process of production is created. However, this law also treats protection against those noxies, and I would like to really wish that the citizens of Serbia, workers who work in such environments where big noise products are protected because noise can damage hearing, whether for a shorter period of time or permanent. This reduces the practical ability of an employee to communicate, reduce its productivity, as a single nox, here I am telling you from the profession that the process of treating such a worker is also much more expensive and it is much easier to invest in prevention, invest in equipment, the protective equipment of workers working in such places. When we talk about the chemical harmfulness of a number of noxies, it's also a risk factor, vibrations, radiation, heat, dust that's in a working community. Many of our employees do not care about this aspect, and this dust around them leads to numerous allergic reactions to the organism, whether from allergic renitis or some inflammation of the lungs, bronchopneumia to some trachea, laryngite and other things that can lead to problems in our worker’s health. What I found as a data, and you also say from the Ministry of Labour and in this law, that the rate of injury to workers in the countries of the former Socialist republics and the former Eastern Europe and the former Eastern economy is about 10,000 per 100,000 workers, and that the mortality rate is 13 per 100,000 workers. This clearly indicates that this is a large percentage and that we need to make sure that this is more present in the Balkan countries for Western European countries. I like to share with you one of my thoughts that perhaps alcohol is not the subject of reduced employee capacity in some collectives? It's a Serbian tradition to tie beautiful and sad moments to alcohol. Unfortunately, as a doctor, I am well informed and unfortunately faced with patients who consume alcohol, who work at certain places in companies, and where they have been practically self-injured many times because they have been under the fact of alcohol. What our proposal is to tighten the control of alcohol use in republican and urban enterprises in order to ensure safety at work but to protect our nation's health. Unfortunately, alcohol in Serbia is something that is tradition. I am Nischlia, but I run a Toplice origin where it's a good day to have a brandy in the early morning, so that's not good. Here, I want as Nisli, but as a Toplician, to say that this is not good and that some of our habits must be changed to improve our nation's health situation because it is unfortunately threatened. At the beginning of the exhibition, I said that unfortunately in Europe, we are in the first few positions of cardiovascular and malignant diseases, and with a cigarette, alcohol is one of the winning combinations, unfortunately, for the development of very severe malignancies. When you state in the law the control of the sale of food products, I want to say on behalf of the parliamentary group that it is necessary, but I also want to point out that it is more than evident that food control is important but that it is also important to sell and hand over these food products to our citizens, what we eat, how we eat, is it sanitaryly correct. Is it normal for a number of kiosk workers to take the money from you, return the change, put the glue, put the clap and also with their hands that have touched the money, which is one of the dirtiest, practical, elements that change a number of hands, many unwashed hands, is a transporter of callionics, and therefore it is necessary to legally sanction anyone who, as a suggestion, is to sanction anyone who does the selling and distribution, practically, food, and it is also in contact with money. So it's a little bit of work on the culture of our sector, but also the obligation of the state to promote and punish the opposite way, what I brought to you. What we want as a parliamentary group is to make a proposal, which is that in some time that comes we legally regulate, to legally oblige employees in the Republic enterprises, in urban enterprises to be obliged to come for systematic health checks. In the higher SFRY, these were regular and normal checks, and now a smaller percentage of businesses are organising systematic checks for their employees. We believe in our parliamentary group that this is very important. It is very important, because it is the most important and easy to invest in prevention, in preventing employees who are in a number of factories or plants from being exposed to a number of noxes that can disrupt their health, that they simply, necessarily once a year, have to come to examine their health. What it is, despite these harmful noxies that their jobs carry, is that when we take a serious approach to the health care of our employees, we have to make a commitment and that all women after 45 years must have health care in terms of breast examination, ultrasound examination, mammographic examination, gynological examination, as well as examination of the arms and bodies of the womb, as the most common organs in women who can be factors of malignancy. It's a man's lung. It's mandatory to check with a systematic examination and a colon. Unfortunately, we as men are more prone to these organs for disease, and the gentler and smarter sex is unfortunately with these organs that I've listed more prone to developing malignancies, so I think a systematic, legally regulated examination would solve and help. It also states in the law establishing options for the introduction of special insurance against labour injuries and occupational diseases. I think it's something that's good and that in this crisis when a bad economic situation is, when our funds are pretty empty, I think of the RFZO that in some segments you can't answer in time and adequate for some diseases. I think that's the same solution to supplementing some insurance, especially high-risk professions, to ensure that they have health insurance, but also one bonus, a financial fund that if they had an accident, an extreme injury, or they were permanently or temporarily disabled to have the possibility of supporting them from that fund because they don't work to feed their family and them personally. What is very important is to carry out continuous education of health care at factories. I was in 1968, remember we had, practically visiting as the founders of numerous working communities, collectives, factories, and then I can say it was much better, in my opinion, a better visibility of dangerous substances on the factory wall, that there were more words in the media about prevention in the workplace. And that's something we should do again. I repeat, it is precisely from the parliamentary group that the message that prevention is the key to cheaper care is practically, it is also more economically cost-effective, but it is much better for the worker himself and for the patient himself to ensure that in the beginning you provide it and to educate it as easily as possible to work in a certain dangerous place. What still does not exist in Serbia, unfortunately, is a unique labour injury register. That's something we should be doing. Our medical work is doing well and we are very different from other health sectors where we have developed this sector of medicine. We have also developed a school of protection at work in my native Nis, there is such a college that makes a lot of contributions to improving the health care of employees and I suggest you maybe hire them more, professors from that university who and how they can and can legally, and also professionally help improve this legal regulation and health protection of our employees. In Article 15. – the way to provide first aid, the type of means and equipment that must be provided in the workplace is a good thing, but I ask you if we can provide exactly everything to provide that first aid. Can we educate the fit in all these factories that do these dangerous jobs? We think it's a good thing, but in Western Europe you have defibrillators in parks, in all factory units you have equipped, where larger collectives and health services are. So, this is something that we are all tasked with developing, we are poor, but we are smart to spend that money and to direct it really to the rapid care of the injuries of our employees, but again, I repeat, the proposal of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group that prevention is something that is very important and that there is no tragedy, that there is no injury itself. In Article 18, you state that an employer who performs works on building facilities in accordance with safety and health regulations at work on temporary and mobile construction sites is required to develop regulations on construction planning, etc., etc. What we are witnessing is that the country is developing, that a lot of walls are being built, something that is taboo topic in Serbia, not in this government, it's back maybe 30-40 years, it's a trapo station. I ask the question of security and employees, as well as citizens of Serbia who are close to trafo stations, not by electric cables, but right next to the trafo stations. Unfortunately, local self-government is in Nis and in a number of environments wishing to get some dinar through these building permits, issues in some situations and permits with some strange solutions and setting up and trafo stations and those antennas for mobile subscribers, etc. I'll even tell you on my own case that some scientists in the City Assembly, even during the Democratic Party's term, remembered and put a trafo station next to my family's house, half a metre from the family house, convincing me it's not dangerous. So I'm telling you as a doctor, it shouldn't be a taboo topic, there's not much data on harmfulness or damage, but I can tell you that it produces an electromagnetic field. The electromagnetic field can act harmfully on cells, we're made up of cells, each of our organs is made up of cells. We need to take this case much more seriously. My first neighbor is suffering from leukemia, so I ask the question – is this trapo station also the cause of this severe illness? In Electrodistribution whoever's in power, the SPS, DS, SNS, everyone's gonna tell you no, it's not, but I'm telling you she's making an electromagnetic field, she's making noise, she's got radioactive oil that's stored under such trafo stations. Do we have control and when workers set up these trafo stations, and do we have adequate protection to say if it's harmful, and if it is harmful, to isolate it. The trafo station next to my house, I was checking, next to my family's house is half a mile from my apartment unit, which is not secured. So these are things, I'm telling you from a personal example, you weren't in power then, they were some scientists from my party. I want to say, on my case, that we have to open our eyes, not to pursue ourselves, but when we talk about the unique interest of our citizens about the unique interest of our employees, we look without sanctioning, if someone, on my case, took a percentage and allowed such a thing that is not allowed anywhere in the world, to put, from the opposite direction, building a residential building, to put next to some housing unit, a family house, to put a trafo station. I'm very bitter about it, because I see in certain neighborhoods of Nis, the neighborhoods of Belgrade, that nothing but mushrooms of that trafo station. I'm sorry, at the end of this speech, I was a little more emotional, because one quiet neighborhood, one family house of my grandparents, my parents, who I inherited, were usurped by the great powers that grant these permits, I'm not saying anything against distribution, but I'm talking about some percentages, some crime that happens in local self-governments to approve such permits. I will bring this speech to an end by sending a message to the DS parliamentary group once again, that it is very important to think about the annual systematic checks on employees, so that we can notice the disease at first, notice a change in one of the organs, and thus, in the easiest way, prevent the difficult consequences, and in the easiest way, reduce economic damage in the economic part. I end up, economic growth is accompanied by a healthy nation, a Serb nation, a Serb people, and unfortunately for years, under sanctions, isolation, poverty, brought into one opportunity to survive barely, that a number of diseases that we considered to have been eradicated, appear again, that we are sicker than some years, in the 1980s or 1970s, so that it is necessary to prevent the improvement of the health situation and the health situation of our nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36268	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36269	I have just realized to the honourable MP that this law is really hard to read, i.e. to be interpreted from the position of the party in power or party in opposition or any party. These are simply not laws that apply and can be interpreted politically or ideologically. These are very professional laws dealing with the lives of people who deal with professions, prevention, how to help every worker, employer, and here you will admit, thank you for saying that, it really doesn't matter who the party is and what its political commitment is. Of course alcohol is a problem. Every psychoactive substance is in the process of work and it is a problem. I'm afraid we don't have any exact data today that I can confirm, but I'm telling you about some feeling that today there are a number of other psychoactive substances that are frightening in the use of our population and not just in our population, and that's not just any speciality of the public sector, and it's not true that it only happens in public authorities or public enterprises, it happens everywhere, and the accidents that come from it affect everyone who works. After all, the employer, one of the reasons under the Labour Act, for the termination of the labour contract is the alcoholized state, that is, the use of any psychoactive substances. There is only one exception, believe it or not, which is in the Law on Maritime Affairs, namely, sailors have the right to one glass of wine a day. It's possible, but most of us aren't sailors, so it doesn't apply to us. From the Labour Safety Act, it must come up with a whole series of different regulations that will make this law operational, which will make it possible to implement. Let me tell you, we already have 35 regulations in Brussels and we're still waiting for comments on those 35 regulations. The Ministry did their job, and there are two other very important regulations, one about asbestos, and one about electromagnetic field. These are very important rules and we expect that we will get comments very quickly and that they will be able to be in need very quickly, and as far as we are concerned, we will, before the legal deadline of no longer than a month, bring in ten more regulations that come from this law, and that is our way of making this law operational and making it applicable. You here, of course, with the full right to mention a number of things like, I don't know, hygiene and whether a transfo station can build here or there, these are all things that are regulated by some other public health laws, so the Law of Construction, etc., but nevertheless, all that is essential and all that says that society must be in general on this side of the world to help each of our own. I hope you will uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36270	Thank you. The word has Dr Blagoja Bradic, the party's authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, today we are discussing two laws, which is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Health Safety Act and a proposal for a law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. Unlike my predecessors who have had their vision, to whom they have full right, I will try in these few minutes my discussion that I have one critical reference to both of these laws, with the hope that you will analyse our amendments accept our suggestions and improve your proposals. I will start with the draft law amending and supplementing the Safety and Health Act at work. In the light of this law, you stated that the basic reason was that the basic law was passed in 2005, that certain problems were identified in application. You didn't give us here in material that is specific problems in the application of laws and which are relevant statistics, comparative experiences and which is why something isn't good and why you're changing it. Also, the proposer of this law, the government, states that the basic law is based on Directive 89/391 EEZ, that since the Republic of Serbia is not an EU member, those solutions from the directive should, as you say, be modified and adapted to our reality. In other words, as I understand it, the Ministry knows better the matter of health security at work than the EU, and this in terms of the competence of the persons in charge of safety and health, the training programme, etc. The top of the argument would actually be, it is seen from this text that wording is being carried out with the EU directive. What I shall say as examples, you say that it is clearly and clearly defined by the term “employer” in this law, and you say that as an employer within the meaning of this law, a natural person who, on any legal basis, provides a job for an employee, except for a person who is provided by the business in the household and the holder of the family agricultural land who performs business with members of the family’s agricultural household in accordance with the rules of agriculture and by two you say that as an employer is also considered a natural person who performs business or other activity with members of this family household. I think this is a very confusing and contradictory definition. I think that it is not clear enough, because you say that prevention is a process of securing measures in the workplace and in the working environment of the employer in order to prevent or reduce the risk of work. I think that should have been much more precise, clearer and understandable for those people who read these laws, because this law, I'll remind you, is not only read by highly trained people in this area, but also by people who have self-activities, because under this law they should act and act in the further work of their entrepreneurship when this law comes into force. What's very good, I think the provision that you're introducing is that, quote - the language that the employee understands, is the native language, the language that is officially used in the territory where the employer is based, that is, the employee does the jobs, which he speaks, reads and writes, as well as the language that has been established as a condition for doing the basics of the job. I think it's good and it's one quality of this law. It's also a controversial provision for security tasks to be carried out by the employer himself, in the so-called. "less risky actions", as you say and if there are up to 20 employees. I'm asking you, what if the employer has 21 employees? So such an employer loses this benefit you gave people, i.e. employers who have up to 20 employees, where potentially any activity can go from less risky to medium and high risk, the incidents are unpredictable, that is where we will agree. So in this segment you're proposing something that I think is an illogical solution. Licensing is a special story, communal fulfillment of an entire set of conditions, a period of validity, etc., are just some of the bad solutions you're proposing. With that in mind, the question arises – where is the work of medicine? My colleague was talking about her, because you know that the medical work department has been excluded from funding RFO and I think it's a mistake that the past governments, ministries and management have brought and that we need, i.e. you to change, because it has proved that the medical work has a significant function in the security and prevention of professional illnesses. From the moment she was excluded from funding from the RFO, it was a paper solution, compensation was made, but in nature it was, i.e. in real life, I don't think that your ministry would make a significant step in improving working conditions if it was initiated by the Government, at the Ministry of Health, in the Republic Fund, to return medical work under the auspices of the Republic Fund and to be a commitment that would carry out its work as it did until it was abolished. I mean, not eliminated as an act, but a abolished way of funding, so we have to increasingly and more reduce the number of specialists in medical work, that's the point. What I don't like the same thing, it's a national recognition in the area of security at work that you're introducing, and it's for Security Day, which reminds me a little of "Balkan spy". "If you remember me, if not I did my duty." I think it's a good idea, but it will be very susceptible to the influence of the government, whatever it is and the political party currently in power when it's assigned. It is not the goal of anyone, nor of this law, to better understand what you have written, goals, prevention of injury to work, the emergence of professional diseases and diseases related to work, but the law should contain clear standards that will be applied with as little difficulty as possible in practice. In particular, reduce the number of incidents, reduce the number of people who suffer from professional illnesses, reduce the number of injuries at work. I think it's a law written like this, I don't think it's exactly what you predicted. If I didn't go from member to member now if I didn't take up a lot of your time, we'd put up with a lot of amendments. I hope you'll analyse them, but here, I'll give you a solution from Article 16, which applies to Article 37. The law that says – Jobs of health at work, the employer can perform only in retail activities, accommodation and nutrition services, information, communication, financial and insurance, real estate operations, professional, scientific, innovation, administrative and auxiliary service activities of mandatory social security, so I will return you to the fact that this applies to employers, respected colleagues, who have up to 20 employees. Mandatory social security is actually RFZO, it's mandatory social security, I don't know any other institution that has many more people. I don't see why they wouldn't have a professional, highly trained employee, but that should be done by an employer, but well, you're legislators, so you probably have an answer to that. Education, art and entertainment and recreation, as well as in other service activities, if there are up to 20 employees, it is not required to have a professional examination under Article 2(2). I think it's a little illogical that those who are over 20 have a professional employee, and those who are below 20, they don't even have to be, as you say, not obliged to have passed a professional exam. I don't know why he's gonna apply this law, but I hope I get an answer? Another law I'd like to say a few words about is the Law on Conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad. I'm here with a detailed review of its contents, I've tried to read it multiple times to understand it, then the reasons for the law and the review of the effects of this law, I'd draw your attention to the following. This law certainly tried, and that is fine, and there is the Ministry's efforts, it has been tried to introduce a single area, which is the employment of persons who are in a working relationship with a company registered in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who are referring to work abroad, a meaningful trail of flows, by prescribing the conditions under which a person will go abroad to work, prescribing the obligations of the employer when they refer to an employee abroad, as well as supervision of the application of this law. It is stated that the aim of the law is a unique record of the number and structure of the person on temporary work abroad, the records in which the employees are referred, as well as supervision of the application of this law. I think the weakest point of this law is the supervision of the application of this law. I'll explain it to you the following way. It is all right that you have obliged your employer to provide temporary work abroad with: health, pension and disability insurance and insurance in case of unemployment, safety and health at work, accommodation, nutrition and transportation for arrival and departure, earnings, preparation for temporary work. But I'd like you to explain to me how you're going to make sure that an employer in a foreign country has really provided that accommodation, that income, that security and health protection at work, that only one document he signed in his country, that is. in the Republic of Serbia? The formality of each employer will provide through the annexes of the contract, as provided for by this law, and appropriate applications, but when an employee goes abroad, what is paper taken over as an obligation, it doesn't have to be that way at all. The employee in one general unemployment atmosphere in the Republic of Serbia, and it will agree with me, is very often forced to accept a job abroad, and when accepted by him, then is expected entirely by other conditions, is not a rule, but it happens, which he is forced to agree to precisely because of a salary that provides him with such a chance to survive and provide the family. Answer me which inspection will go to the scene and see if this particular category hotel that's listed in the annex is provided, or if you think it should be done by consular representations, so I'd like you to explain to me how, say, in Russia where we have, I don't know, three, five, ten thousand employees and one consular office to control it? I have no doubt of good intentions, but I see a lack of law and I see that there will be problems with the application of this law. Who can our foreign worker contact if the conditions are not secured? That's what I saw in the law... the only consular representation or embassy of our country. What is not there is a monitoring mechanism for this law, because it comes out of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and you haven't dealt with it, at least in this law it doesn't say, with the possibility of possible international legal assistance in these matters between the two countries. The problem of the externality of the application of this law has been completely ignored, so a fundamental question arises. You have imagined everything in this good intention, but this law without its application and through supervision and punishment in the event of a violation of the provisions of this law has failed to resolve. I repeat that the law has a good idea, it's comprehensive, apart from what's a big problem -- lack of control over the application of this law. So we get one principle law, which has a good intensity, but not application, because it's possible that its abuses are possible. Another complaint, from the Department of Public Policy, as the authority that needs to determine the integrity of the adoption of this law, I will read this observation. You have received the answer that the law contains a partial analysis of the effects of the regulations. Technically, it was enough for you to pass the law, but basically, you didn't satisfy the basic questions that the analysis required. First of all, it is not responsible how the proposed legal solutions will be simplified to administrative procedures for economic operators, employers, when sending employees abroad. You did not specify the positive effects of the provisions of Articles 20 to 22, and in this respect, you responded to how much new administrative procedures cost our small and medium-sized enterprises and how much the application of this law cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the analysis, you even note that the employer still has additional burden, which is the conclusion of the contract annex. The part relating to the public debate, in a completely non-transparent way, has, in my view, shown a public debate as a dialogue that did not have fundamental remarks, and it is clear to all that union organisations and business associations are always active in public debates from your portfolio, so the question arises – were all interested parties to whom this law was addressed and really an opportunity to make a statement about it? I wish in an analysis of this law I could read which proposals and objections were rejected and why. So, I just had a chance to read your vision of the problem and of these public debates, where you listed a large number of participants, which are state authorities, which are companies, but without any content in terms of the course of dialogue and debate, so the question is to what extent has the law taken into account all the needs of companies and employees who are referring to work abroad, which I think this Assembly should have as a possibility of insight, those who are interested, so that we can make quality decisions and possibly suggestions for amending this law, until its vote. One of the unclear provisions of this law is Article 23, where you say, I will quote - the authorities and organisations carrying out the tasks of the state administration in relation to the supervision of the exercise of the rights of temporary staff abroad, as set out in this law, are obliged to cooperate and exchange information to protect the rights of temporary staff abroad. The protection of employees during work and stay abroad is carried out by diplomatic, or consular representations of the Republic of Serbia within the framework of the work cycle. I'd like you to explain to me how diplomatic consular representations are protecting our employees in connection with this law? How is this co-operated by the authorities of the state administration in the application of this law? What other authorities are responsible for the application of this law, and where is their jurisdiction, in view of the matter of the law? In what procedure are they in charge of applying this law? These issues, in my opinion, remain unresolved through the principle provision without the prescribed procedure and instruments that should enable quality supervision. I see in this law only a trace of events and records and statistics of data processing that economic operators give you when they have a job job outside the country. I'll quote, i.e. I will simplify - the employer concludes the contract annex with the employee, fills in the form, registers the employee and submits it abroad, from the moment of crossing the state border, is employed by the employer, but without any protection from the state, because the state, under this law, has not seen that it has instruments that can control it. If an incident occurs, if even a labour inspection or an employee dares to take action against the economic operator who violated the obligation of this law and contract, answer me, please, in what way will you provide evidence when the work took place abroad? Whose minutes and opinions, statements, are you taking as relevant for this procedure? This will burden the courts with new procedures that will end with rejection or refusal of application. You leave a fully unprotected employee, who remains insecure in the environment of the defendant's employer in addition to the lack of judicial protection. I'll give you an example. You have prescribed a fixed penalty for the following parts of Article 27, paragraph 1 point 5. I will quote - if the employee referred to in temporary work abroad does not receive greater rights and more favourable working conditions established by the collective contract, the labour rule, or the labour contract, in accordance with the provisions of this law, the legal person and the entrepreneur will bear the penalty, i.e. An entrepreneur will be punished, I quote. As far as I know, which I'm in contact with the lawyers and I've exchanged some of their experiences, for a fine in a fixed amount is a violation order. It's not a misdemeanor yet. So, your labour ministry inspectors are entering a business entity, and what are they going to ask the economic operator to do? How does the employer prove that better conditions are provided? An annex to the contract, probably, signed by an employee, a record and an employer's notice. That, I mean, isn't enough. Well, we can if we're working on an honorable word, but we need something to form by law. I hope you'll answer how you think you're going to verify a misdemeanor order, how do you think you're applying a criminal policy, and by doing so, you're going to ensure the safety of the protection that must be provided by this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36272	Is anyone else answering from the authorized representatives? The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36273	I thank the honourable MP for his hard work and for reading the law carefully, and now I'm going to try to clarify some of the misunderstandings. Let's start with the last one, so the Law on sending employees to work abroad. This law, as well as any other law, will not make Serbia a global super force that will be able to control the situation in any country on the planet Earth, wherever a citizen of the Republic of Serbia is at work. I'm sorry about that. I wish Serbia was a global super force that could interfere with any legal order, but this law cannot provide. Also, there is no law on the globe of Earth that even global super powers can ensure that they come to Serbia and control what you're asking us to control. It's just not possible. So, no worker, who moves abroad, will hand-to-hand to his workplace escort the labour inspector and then spend the whole time there with him controlling whether he got a helmet on the site. That's not possible. What's this law doing? This law obliges the employer to inform the employee of whatever is necessary. We don't allow, like so far, to send him without a contract, without an annex, not allow him to offer the contract on the plane, not allow him to change the contract on the spot, not allow him to do anything that isn't premeditated. We've made it easier for the employer's paperwork, which has been quite extensive so far. By now she needed tax, PIO, the contract had to be in two languages, to be paid by court interpreters. A lot of things that didn't really help the worker, and the employers were trying to convince him, when there were no criminal provisions, that he just didn't answer and that he just went out with the workers, because no one was going to check on him anyway, he's not going to do anything. We hereby establish the possibility of our labour inspection here in the territory of Serbia, where the employer is registered, we control the behaviour of the employer, and the most we can help the worker is that he knows in advance where he is going, how much he will be paid, where he will be placed, who his contact person is unless any of this is true. In law we provided for the name and name of the man who is on behalf of the company of the contact person, whom the worker complains, who says – this room is not what we agreed on. He can't do it without the employee's role. The labour inspector can't be in Africa for 24 months, how many workers he can work there and all that time he's taking on that obligation. It is not possible and there is no law in the world that allows it, there is no inspector on the planet of the country who can come to Serbia and say – this room is not a condition for staying a worker. He can't, only the Serbian labour inspector. You can't expect them to let us go to Germany or Russia and have our labour inspector check it out there. There are bilateral agreements between inspections, at the level of inspections, there is an international Federation of Labour Inspections, but two governments can also sign an appropriate bilateral agreement on mutual protection of workers, so this is decided differently. By the way, this thing you asked how we're going to judge it, based on what evidence, we're already judging it. Our courts recognise the solution to the inspection of the work of other countries in a misdemeanour procedure. You can ask for it, you can bring it. It's a public document and you'd be absolutely protected in that direction. What's your main remark, how and how we can apply this law to someone who works abroad, we can't. We can apply it to the employer who sent him abroad and that he is more paid to respect the contract he signed with the worker and who made the known state of Serbia. So we can, but that we can each individual worker... Now I repeat, you are not obliged to report to your country to work anywhere, take a passport, go anywhere in the world, do whatever you want, and I can't do anything about it, so let's break the law as such, because you won't report it. As far as diplomatic and consular offices are concerned, I'm sorry, but it's not our law. As the DKP functions, it is regulated by a special law that applies to them. This law does not regulate their conduct. They are obliged to take care of our citizens no matter where they were, and that is again under their law. This is where multiple organs and our labour inspection and the IRS are tied. Of course, diplomatic and consular representations are involved. So far, no one has had to know, but from now on, with this law on the Ministry of Labour site, you will have a clear and transparent view of what the company is called, how many workers have signed a contract with the company and where these workers are now. It is available to the entire public, available to the DKP, available to everyone. You've never had that before. That's what we need, and it's certainly very important. As far as the Safety and Safety Act is concerned, yes, it is the European directive that we must follow anyway, but European directives also have their degrees in application. We don't have to apply everything right now and we don't have to apply everything now. We are not like some other countries that have adopted directives and European laws without translating them. So they came to parliaments in English and MPs voted for them because they had no time to translate them and to have a quality debate. We will discuss every directive, and be European, and we will discuss and apply it in accordance with the relevant rules and with what our country needs at this time, which is what our economy needs. The remark you made on the definition that is not clear to you, when it comes to the employer in the agricultural household. I'm sorry, but that's the definition of the Business Society Act. So I can't write it and that's it. Until the Company Act, which regulated the employer, is changed, in particular, I can only copy. It is not on this law to define other definitions and to call it an employer in another law. We have to accept that. That's how it is, whether it's confusing or not, until this law changes, we won't be able to change anything. Why did we say household members? Household members in the agricultural land do not have an employment contract. If your son works in a farm home, you are not required to conclude a contract with him, nor is your wife, nor is your daughter-in-law, son-in-law, or whoever you already have. They are not obliged to have a labour contract, and since they are not obliged to have a labour contract, they are not subject to these protection measures. It is simple, but on the other hand, for the first time it has been introduced that the farmer, who employs workers, seasonal workers, is obliged to ensure adequate protection measures at work. Of course, if possible, you can't expect someone who takes five seasonal workers to have the same level of protection as the one who has a 25-year-old company. It's just like that. As for the number, which you have raised, of the 20 employees, this is due to the agreement with the social partners, this is due to the agreement with all relevant entities, by foreign investors, and so on, so all associations, chambers of commerce. Everyone we talked to considered this a small company. Otherwise, just so you know, small businesses in Serbia have 220,000. Imagine now that we've imposed all of the 220,000 on us to have to hire a new man who's trained in safety and safety at work, so I believe this Parliament would first ask us, is there enough of these commitments, do you have to force us to hire people who are objectively out of business? There is already an obligation in the law that every employer must train up to 2% of the employees for safety and safety at work. So, we don't have to hire another one on these small businesses right now, something he objectively can't accept, he can't stand. That wouldn't work. Of course, other than that, it's very important and it's written in law, in companies where the worker deals with particularly risky activities, where there are particularly certain workers for it. I may have remained obliged to explain to my previous colleagues that mandatory systematic examinations are done where people work and especially risk-based professions. You've commented on a confession. Well, why not, but just so you know, for four years we've been awarding that confession, and for four years, businessmen with great pleasure come when someone remembers them. I don't think there's any harm in that. To go back to this part for small businesses. Why in certain areas, we've listed what areas these are, food handling, IT technology, these are enterprises where there are very few injuries to work. It's a hostel, it's a grocery store, it's a bakery. These are companies where we have proven a small number of injuries at work, and now it would really be wrong to impose something else. Of course, when it's the same number of workers, but different actions, we deal differently with the same question. This is not linear, but it was taken care of what the company was doing. There are companies, you'll admit, where it really isn't necessary, so why create that obligation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36274	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36275	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Mr. Ministers, today there are three very important laws in front of us that each in their own way and each in their subject regulates something that is important for a man in his working environment, whether it is here in the country, that is abroad, or a law that applies in this case and to the protection of children. The aim of all these three laws is very clear, as Mr. Minister said, their goal is to improve the conditions in which the worker is located, to make and to bring modern solutions and to be in line with all international documents relevant in this area and which are important for its improvement, but I would also point out this time that their importance is not only to be consistent with these documents, but to improve their own working conditions, to improve their own working conditions and life, to protect life, to protect children, to protect sensitive categories, when it comes to work and work environment. When we're talking about this subject or this Corps at all, I would actually start from the fact that the basic human right, the right to work, that safety and health at work is the fundamental right of all employees. It has been established by all international conventions of the International Labour Organisation, the Lisbon EU Agreement, EU directives, and this right is guaranteed by the Constitution of our country. It particularly points out that the obligation to protect the position of women, youth and persons with disabilities. In the EU accession process, this matter is constantly perfected and upgraded, which is evidence and these laws that are before us today. What's important, what's special to me, significant in this part? That the accent is placed on the development of consciousness and its promotion to prevention, because it is more significant and greater than the treatment itself, the inclusion of all and the raising of their responsibilities, especially the responsibilities of employers. Achievability is very possible. This is precisely by raising awareness, knowing responsibility, but I would say what is necessary and by having to have a certain criminal policy. For the state of security at work, what matters is what the economy is. The state of the economy, its structure, equipment, knowledge and demographic structure, also have a significant impact on this area of protection at work. The health safety strategy at work was adopted for the period from 2013 to 2017. It has also been established for the previous period of 2009 to 2012 and is constantly going in this direction of promotion and the latter in a comprehensive manner determines the situation in the area of security and their safeguards. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Safety and Health at Work, which we are talking about today, in fact, predicts changes in the laws that are, meaning compliance with EU directives because the last time the law was adopted in 2005. Life, regulation and relations have changed significantly in the meantime. Certain shortcomings of the previous law have also been observed, and this part has then been overcome. In this regard, the law particularly does not regulate certain obligations relating to specific types of service, such as military, police or fire protection. Safety and safety at work in these services must certainly be regulated by special laws, so this one is now adapted to these new requirements. Most importantly, this raises the level of competence of legal and natural persons in charge of safety of work protection and encourages the creation of a training programme for safe and healthy work. The improvement of the knowledge of the persons involved, as well as the companies, implies the existence of a licence for both of them and for each of the following periods, because as it is necessary for doctors to have their work licenses, regardless of the length of the study, regardless of the length of the specialisation they need to achieve in order to obtain an adequate level of expertise and knowledge, it has been introduced that the innovation of knowledge and its promotion must constantly be present. Since these activities are precisely about the protection of health and life at work in sensitive circumstances where a person can be exposed to injuries of any mechanical nature or protection against chemical matter, that protection must now have a continuous improvement and continuous renewal of the licence. I'd like to welcome the protection of young people, the protection of women and the position of disabled people. What is clearly stated here is the definition of the new conditions of who it is and what the employer is, what is and in what position is the employee and which de facto he must have the right to be aware of, as well as the person in charge of security. Why do I insist on this – yes and the position of employees? We have been exposed in Serbia for the last ten or more years to global capitalisation and the creation of private enterprises that have been very often in a situation where they do not respect these primary laws that we have had, very represented and developed and well systemised and in the previous state. The laws were respected, relations were known, but the race for private capital that would quickly bring down many of the principles that existed before and which we had, which the worker knew and brought in a worker who was most often threatened to the point where he was left out of work, was essentially reduced to a small framework of rights that he could not, knew or dared to fight. This gives that possibility and opens that perspective. It is also envisaged and it is quite good to withdraw work permits if some of the conditions provided for in this law are not foreseen. This approach provides care, responsibility for safety, health protection at work, thereby protecting man and reducing all kinds of treatment costs, which is the ultimate result of irresponsible behavior. Of course, I will repeat that before 2000, there was a developed science in our country in the case of the work of the Niš Institute of Protection, which had highly recognised references in our country, and in international relations, that there were very developed and well-netified institutes that were engaged. I would like to mention an example of the Institute of Protection at the work "First May" in Nis, which had a symbolic name that referred to a holiday marking the protection of workers' rights and other known institutions in Belgrade. They, like the medicine itself after 2000, suddenly became suddenly and violently suppressed, and this law just provides for the return of faith and the return of security that is very important in this area. What is very important and what I think must play a more significant role in the future is the Department of Health Safety at Work. We know how operationally significant it is, significant on the ground, what is particularly significant in its realization is this network of expertise, with institutes, but also with the inspection that needs to be found on the ground. I would not yet during this period or in this time plagiarise on the great responsibility of the employer and their existence of awareness that they must provide it because unfortunately it is still very present that the worker is the cost, I will quote my fellow MP who, for several years, when the laws in the field of work, repeat and insist. I think it's something that looks like a relationship, and also the personification of that relationship requires us to be responsible for the worker not being a expense. Developing consciousness with that worker that he himself must disagree with the situation. It also asks all trade unions to be active in protecting the position of workers, not only to justify their own union role, but to achieve the right goals. Of course, according to records that still exist in the field of protection at work, there is a high percentage of people who hurt themselves during the year in our work. Unfortunately, we had a few days ago and this dramatic case on the railways, in broad daylight, in Belgrade, in large companies. What if it happens in a small place, in a small company, where there's not enough funds for that employer, to secure it all, so he's costing him a worker, so it's even more cost to secure his protection at work? That reminds us even more to be responsible, to be present, to seek responsibility. By developing responsibility, we also develop consciousness. In this regard, I would also recommend to the Department for Safety and Health at Work our activities in the future. So, the inspection, the field and the number of people who are equipped here, they know and they know. Consciousness, knowledge and responsibility, system and criminal policy are the framework that provides it. Legal work, reported and dignified is something that is meant to exist before this protection itself. I'll remind you that unfortunately there are companies in which the working conditions of employees are dramatically poor. I will mention the example of the famous "JURE". I wonder, and that was with us on the Labour Committee on a couple of occasions, are we as an inspection or did we go there to see these conditions? Are they in accordance with our laws? Are the unions worried, others, and we know that there is no union organization, and that is not in accordance with our laws? What means and opportunities do we make it not to be? Because a worker in our terms and in our country, in my opinion, can't even be disproved, but can't be paid below the level of dignity? That's what we have to fight for. I understand that employers are very important to us. The employer must be able to provide as many jobs as possible, but cannot be an employer at all costs, while the employer who will be financed, who will be doped by state funds, who will provide those miles of employees etc., etc. Therefore, the reduction of the logs and savings cannot be an excuse for employers not to comply with this law. Fighting for profit, in fact, must also mean fighting for workers' rights. It is difficult to ensure today, not only in Serbia, but in general and in the world, because we see that global capitalism always sees as much profit as possible to the harm of workers. So today, of course, I'm sure I'll do something we all know, but employees in America today have a living room on certain jobs that are several times smaller than his father's diary or generation before he did. But, unfortunately, this model is being painted everywhere, which is why we are experiencing movements of the type "Sirize", the type "Pegide", etc., etc. in Spain and now in England. The question is, as a country that had a socialist tradition, which had developed awareness and responsibility, which pleads for having developed its mechanisms to do so in the future, not to come absolutely below the level that is civilised, so that we get out of it precisely because this composition of today's Ministry of Labour is, compared to the creation of economic conditions, in fact, we are fighting for the dignity of this work without underestimating it behind protection at work in every way. When it comes to the second law, it refers to the conditions of staffing to temporary work abroad and their protection. The reference to temporary work abroad is one specific phenomenon that occurs in certain countries or in certain sectors. At EU level, there are estimated to be about a million such workers annually. The most employees to be sent are from industry, transport or communication services. It is known that several factors affect this type of mobility. I only mention some, this is geographical proximity, labour costs, labour shortages, unemployment rates in the country, etc., but they always aim at certain economic effects that should be achieved for the individual who is sent to temporary work abroad and also for the employer, indirectly and to the country itself. This area was first regulated in the 1980s since the departure to temporary work abroad in many companies was developed whether they had developed their representation abroad, whether they were developing some other kind of business, or professional co-operation, whether they were sending their experts to fill other jobs or were co-operation with the authorities of the state administration. Control over the application of this law is certainly an important category of it. It is important to point out that this law which is now proposed achieves certain objectives, which is the unification of legal matter, because the responsibility of individual ministries, for work, for foreign policy, for social security services, etc. is intertwined in monitoring the employment of workers abroad. This results in the consequence that we today do not have clear and visible, accurate data on how many workers abroad, what is their structure, in which countries have gone, in which companies are engaged, etc. I would not easily go over the remarks of the law that was passed in 1998, which regulates this matter, because it is the law of the SFRY and that is one of the reasons that nothing else exists for which this law was to be applied and applied to the present conditions and the present state, but then there were divisions of powers between the federal state and the republican ministries, or their institutions, and in that sense, of course, some of their things were set up differently. Modern legal solutions that uniquely lead to foreign affairs, which keep track of it, are in fact the best way to get workers' protection. Why does it matter? Because of the many problems that have been discussed here, which can be reported in life, which can later have negative consequences for the position of the workers themselves who go there. The consequences are great. They can be drastic, we mentioned them, from lack of conditions, from lack of wages, from lack of protection of health, tragic consequences that happen behind that, etc. When it comes to this law, I'll look back here a little more specifically on Article 17 of the Law, which refers to profits, with a certain question. I will quote a member, it is short - the employer is obliged to provide the employee with earnings in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia which cannot be less than guaranteed minimum earnings under the rules of the country in which the employee is referred to temporary work. I ask a theoretical question – what if from certain business relationships, or another worker sent to work in a country that has less guaranteed income? It has to be protected by its own, meaning our minimum, or it can be worse, means that we have the least minimum profit, which I would consider to be extremely inadmissible and large. Not to be too long around this law, given that time is running out, I will just mention that the law in confirming the Convention on Jurisdiction, the applicable law and the recognition of the enforcement of decisions and co-operation in matter and the measure in the protection of children is an excellent law that provides for the division of jurisdiction. It has also been updated in order to address all these complex issues I will say that we, as a parliamentary group of SPS, will vote for these laws, give support to all efforts that go in the direction of modernisation, but also seek stronger measures of entrepreneurship to protect the position of workers, his dignity, for the dignity of his earnings and in this sense his security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36276	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36277	I thank the MPs for their really studio work. You fought honestly...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36278	Minister, there's still an authorised representative of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36279	Okay. Do you want to unite? Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36280	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36281	Thank you. Dear President, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, today there are three very important laws ahead of us, and I would like to start by amending and supplementing the Safety Act at work. This law is very important, given that it was previously passed in 2005. All congratulations to the ministry that it has taken the strength to take this very serious topic into its own hands and into its jurisdiction. My previous colleagues inspired me with their speeches, and I can't help but look back at one very serious period when we had one serious state, when all the legal norms, so on. JUS standards, which are today ISO standards, but we are at some point in the late '90s, especially from 2000 to 2012/13. We've forgotten these standards for years, and we've had, not to say, one rsomonyade on that labour market, in the fields of general production, health care, education, in all areas. From an orderly state, we have entered a system of complete disorganization. Who didn't participate in what's-his-name. The training of various quasi experts, who simply launched all public and social enterprises and private enterprises to explain the importance of these standards, various consulting houses that were connected with various certification houses, was then agreed to our state and mother and daughter companies, and we got these standards on paper. None of these standards have been applied in life. In particular, I am also talking about this standard of 18001 concerning health, safety and safety at work. This also happened with many other standards, the HCCP standard, ISO 22,000 when it comes to food safety, 14001 standard environmental protection, so we mainly had quasi certificates without proper application. The moment the ministry decided to take responsibility and put these standards in order, we got the real system. So, the real evaluation, specifically for this law, the assessment of the risks at each workplace, we get the norms of what one person will do for safety at work at a particular company and why it is necessary for a company, although it has five employees, and it does business with high-risk substances, chemical substances or in its manufacturing process to have a high risk process, to have a person for safety at work who has a particular certificate, which was obtained in the Ministry of Labour, or in front of a competent commission consisting of experts and professors, rather than quasi-scientists who have been flying us from all sides for 2,000 years. What I'm trying to tell you is that the risk cannot be reduced to zero, but it can be prevented and it's very important. So a good risk assessment at the workplace will provide you with a higher level of productivity, a reduction in work injury, a reduction in professional illnesses, and a reduction in the cost of sickness, a reduction in the cost of recovery, rehabilitation and disability costs. This will also increase the reputation of the organisation, client confidence, opening new markets, equal participation in international projects, meeting tender conditions and concluding strategic partnerships. These are the benefits of this law, not just a mere assessment of the risk and a safe condition in its workplace. I don't want to stay unrecognizable about both employers and employees, believe me, you have situations where the employer does everything, provides good training for workers, provides means of protection, and the worker for some reason doesn't want those means of protection to be applied. This is exactly what I'm telling you from my profession. It's very hard to get a nurse to put on a glove when she's taking blood, because it just bothers them. To go to many homes of health now, you'll see how the medical waste is delayed. They've got all those syringe and needle disposal boxes, but you'll rarely find a nurse who's going to delay the needle properly, but she's going to keep pulling on the cap and putting herself at risk of getting hepatitis B or, God forbid, HIV infection. Therefore, we must work together, we must keep continuous training for both employers and employees. What's very important, and I have to stress that because it hurts terribly, I come from the area of prevention of public health that has been radically translated. What the minister just said was that someone was automatically translating. Public health is not public health, it is national health. If we have the public, we have the secret, and our health needs to be people's, that prevention that is the cheapest is something that we base for all in the future. Besides, I want to tell you, I'm going to refer to my colleagues' comments that we're missing medical work. We ran out of medical work along with major industrial complexes in a terrible bad privatisation that took place, criminal privatisation, because they thought we wouldn't need industrial complexes, it's important that our pockets are full, and when we don't have workers and employees, so what do we need medicine for? Why do we need medical doctors to train them? Why do we need hygiene specialists who only have in their part the hygiene of the work that includes all those agencies in the workplace, which includes the diet of workers, food under special conditions of work? So we got a 10-year period where these practically specializations went extinct. So what I'm saying is that we don't need to wake up right now, we were actors of these events. Let's face it, we've made a mistake, but let's give recognition to both the ministry and our government who's had the strength to step by step to correct one mistake at a time. As an inevitable consequence of such a situation in the economy and society, we also had a departure, an exodus of our workers to work anywhere and anywhere on any job, under any conditions, with incorrect contracts that were signed practically on planes, on ships, and they didn't know what was waiting for them. And that's the part we've regulated. If we were able to care enough about hiring foreigners in our country, normally, we also want to ensure that our workers working abroad have adequate working conditions, for life and for profit. As for providing certain special conditions, the employer is obliged to inform the worker in which the working and living environment is leaving, and it is up to the worker to decide whether or not he will leave the country to work. There is also an assessment of the risks in emergency situations and the prevention of emergency risks, whether they are elemental accidents or some of the incidents in the work organisation. Therefore, these two laws are fully in line, one intertwines the other and one stems from the other. Therefore, all praises for the Ministry for this kind of legislation. The third law on the protection of child rights is only one in a series of laws that this government has passed and that takes care of the welfare of children. I strongly recommend to all colleagues that we accept all three laws and give ours in the day of voting – for, all three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36282	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36283	I thank you to the honourable MPs of effort and studioism who have approached these laws and perhaps the most important thing of all that you've realized is one real fact, we're building a system. This is a system that stems from the Labour Act as a roof law, and now this all comes from it. All these laws that we are harmonising, that we are innovating, that we are making us usable, that we are making them effective, all of this comes from that Labour Act, as a roof law, which has set up a whole new system, which has set up a whole new framework of labour legislation, and this now comes from it. Speaking of the Law of Labour, I really want to congratulate the MPs of the majority, remind them how much resistance there was when the Labour Act was passed, but to remind you of how brave you voted for it then and now you see the positive effects of that law. Let me give you one little example. Then no one realized, and everyone said it wouldn't be anything. Those famous payrolls, if you remember, just so you know, these are the latest records so far of 5,790 workers have entered the process of getting their profits. The court has already resolved 4,4995 court disputes, so, no costs, no lawyers, only with ticket indicators, so 158.903,000 were charged and that's because you voted for it. Because you had the courage then to adopt a Labour Act which, regardless of the criticism at the time, usually came from the ignorance of matter, showed its effect and these laws that we are discussing today are the consequences of this and such a Labour Act, a different approach to labour legislation. You mentioned whether this minimum wage provision, a minimum labour price in a country, could this be a way to avoid practically its obligations? He can't. Profit shall be determined on the basis of the contract and signed by an annex to the contract between the employer and the worker, and this measure shall only be indicated as protection that it cannot be lower than that. If a worker accepts that height and signs an annex work contract, it's his right. So he's comfortable with that minimum profit, but to know in the good part of the countries in the world, there's no minimum profit. Usually where it's going to work, the minimum profit is also the extorted measure that, if it were lucky and if it were a better economic environment, would have already been abolished. As you know, she's also brought in with the fact that every six months she has to explain why she's being brought in. That's something I hope we change. The important thing, I see, is the licensing process. Safety and safety at work have somehow been accepted quite lightly, as if it were not fundamentally important. That's why you have 630 companies dealing with safety and safety at work, and so far they weren't obliged to be educated, to improve, to renew their license, it was one of those boring obligations. Someone comes to you with a stamp that's all right and that's it. No sanctions for him who struck the seal, nor sanctions for him who thus accepted the seal. With this law, we change it. First, in each of these companies, they're going to have to be two employees with high professional training and engineering professions. So you can't bring in some graduate manager, but it has to be for what he teaches, it doesn't make sense, and it's been so all these years, that he teaches you something he hasn't studied for. It doesn't have to improve that education, and it doesn't have to check whether his knowledge has improved or has not improved. We're also showing how serious we are in this. He who works in such an agency and who loses his license and he and those who are family and who are economically connected to the company will not be able to perform that activity for three years. Someone else can, let him deal with whatever he wants, but he can't, if he broke the law in something that's so important to us, and that's safety and safety at work. Three years will not be able to deal with the same performance, and our practice has shown us – the agency does something bad, just reregisters to the same owner or to the son or to the brother and continues to work. It won't be able to do that anymore and it's really a big change. We haven't taken anyone's right to work, we haven't burdened anyone economically, we haven't given a single new charge, we just made sure that those who work with safety and protection at work have to be aware of the obligations and responsibilities they bear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36284	Thank you. We're moving on to the speaker list. The word is made by the MP Milisav Petronijevic, and let Janko Vesenović be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36285	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, my distinguished colleague Mirjana Dragas presented the SPS position, or the SPS parliamentary group on proposals for all three laws, and I have nothing to add except to confirm that. What I'm saying is, that's a few more words about one law, about the bill, about the second law, about the conditions of sending workers to temporary work abroad and their protection because I think it's significant. What I want to say for a little while again, the law is good. A law that provides a very precise answer to a question that has been open for many years, which is a question of the work of our workers on temporary work abroad. The law sets out in a very precise way the rights of employees who go abroad, on temporary work abroad, the very precise conditions that must be met, the procedure that an employee is sent abroad, the obligations of employers who must meet to do so. What is also significant to the obligation of all authorities to cooperate, those who touch this law on the protection of employees, and these are all sufficient reasons to say that this law is good. Secondly, what I want to say is that I am experiencing this in some way and as a continuation of the National Assembly session of 22 April this year when the proposal for amendments to the Employment and Insurance Act was discussed when they were also in one part of the law, when the issue of work abroad took place, when conditions were strengthened and the responsibilities of those who deal with mediation for work abroad were strengthened. Therefore, it is up to national employment services and agencies engaged in mediation. At that time, the government, with our support, announced that a special law would be passed on the deployment of our workers abroad and their protection. Here, that's the law and my congratulations to the government. What I want, from what point of view of this law. First, I would like to say that the aim of this law on the one hand is to speed up employment abroad and to enable employers to employ people abroad in one easier procedure. So the state wants to make it easy, in the simplest way, to allow employers to do the job. But also, on the other hand, that these employees be protected, they get what they're promised, that no one cheats on them, that they have health security at work, social and pension insurance, that they receive profits, in fact, that they do all of this in accordance with legal regulations and not in black. Secondly, I also want to point out, I think it's good otherwise, that the goal is also these governments and the law shows that our employers find as much work abroad as possible. To help them in this regard, to simplify their procedures as much as possible, to increase profits, but also not with less energy and energy, to ensure that employees are properly paid and protected. After all, according to the members of the law, it is very clear, when it comes to employees, that the employer is obliged to re-reference to temporary work abroad, with the employee's conclusion of the Labour Contract Annex, with all the mandatory elements and characteristics not to list them, where there is the name and description of jobs, the amount of basic earnings, the currency in which the earnings will be paid, the elements for determining earnings, etc., to provide health, pension and disability insurance, to ensure safety and health at work, accommodation, food, local transport, arrival, departure from work, earnings, preparation for payment, etc. So, very precisely from the point of view of the protection of workers in advance, before they leave, must very clearly define all these conditions. What I think is very important, which is that every employer who directs workers to temporary work abroad will be obliged to inform the Ministry of Labour, that is, how many employees work abroad, where they work, what rights they have provided them, etc. In fact, the concept of the law is such that the state needs to know where every employee is abroad at any moment, so that it can protect him. The first condition to protect him is to prescribe conditions, and the second condition to know where they are so they can exercise control. And in the past, in fact, the most trouble was just that, anyway, it was people who went abroad, who worked in poor conditions, etc. We also heard from the minister, and that's reality, no state institution has a comprehensive record of employees abroad. It now provides for the Ministry's notification obligation, it publishes the data, and all the competent authorities have the opportunity to exercise control, control, about what they're already in charge of, to put it that way. Of course, because there was no control and there were no conditions for such a thing, the stories of inhumane conditions, the bad conditions of life and work came out only when a great tragedy occurred as there was a fire in Siberia. When the consequences are huge, because he's taken six lives. Now, this law right now needs and wants to provide a clear insight into where and how many employees are engaged, and also to arrange for it to exercise its control. Of course, this is not all solved, because it applies only to domestic businesses, because there are a whole bunch of other ways where a worker can go, from tourist visas and beyond, so there are confusions. This is because it does not mean that there will be no black workers, because at any time it can leave, we are actually fighting black workers in Serbia, employers in Serbia, and that is also something that is real, which can be done and what can be provided. What I pointed out, just once again, is one of the biggest newspapers and the values of this law is informing and informing workers of all conditions before accepting the offer to leave. A very important question, so that the worker can identify whether he is going under these conditions. Especially what it takes and his written consent to go outside. What I want to say in the end is just a few words. The government at the top of the list of priorities has employment, because it rightly believes that employment in Serbia is a top goal, hire a man, hire Serbia, and it continues to create conditions with a whole series of activities. But with the same ferocity, same activity, this government pays attention and protects those who have been hired. Now this law is one of those that confirms this my thesis. When it comes to punishment, if it's 600,000 and 2 million small, I've said it many times, and now I'm going to say it again. Penalties for those who respect the law don't exist. There is no punishment for those who respect the law. Those who do not respect it and should pay and pay even more, because the lives and health of workers from Serbia cannot be less valuable than hunger for profit, creating large material values of capitalists, whether Serbian or some others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36286	Thank you, Mr. Petronijevic. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36287	Chairman, you mean to tell me, the minister isn't in the O.R., whether he might have gone off to the elevator somewhere, or something like that, and if we're going to work...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36288	One moment. The minister will enter the O.R. immediately. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Mr. Veselinović, will you, the minister will be in in a moment, will you begin or wait?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36289	I'll start, I'll start. To tell you the truth, I don't expect any answer from him, so I'm going to focus on the law and the consequences that this law brings, and the fact is that he is the Minister of Government and that he proposed the law as the Minister of Government to the most inefficient government in the world, and the fact is that this law applies to workers in Serbia who, according to statistics in 2014, were workers with the world's lowest benchmark. According to 2015 data, by the end of the sixth month, workers in Serbia are among 145 countries that have been the subject of analysis, which measures at all the amount of wages, workers with the lowest benchmark in the world. So it's not just that Serbian workers are the lowest paid in Europe, but in the world. So they need to be applied to this safety and health law at work. The basic question of security is people who work for 145 dinars an hour, and people who need to feed their family for the 145 dinars an hour. In this law, there is not a single provision that would take into account their physical and mental state of people who have to work overtime, people who in banks, markets, supermarkets, I mean megamarkets, work on Saturdays and Sundays and what their physical and mental status is at all, how they can concentrate on work and whether, what someone was saying earlier, whether regular systematic checks are being carried out to make some shifts in the prevention of these workers who are nowhere in Serbia at risk. The PRECRET movement has submitted three amendments to this law. We tried to correct some of the, in one part of the formal, in another part of the fundamental error in us, but it's not the essence of this part that's been given as a proposal to amend the law. The problem is what is not here, which is that workers are protected from exploitation that could be called the original accumulation of capital with an unprecedented exploitation of workers. So our workers, workers in Serbia, do not have the opportunity either to apply this law to them, nor do employers apply the laws adopted so far. Why? Because a large, significant number of people are working on black. It's said here that there will be control over these employers. How? Where are the records of these people hiring in the area of construction, in the area of trade, in the area of hospitality, people on black? What means of work, or protection at work, will these people who are working on black gain? How? Well, they're not in the records at all, they're not in the system, they're gone. They don't exist. They take salaries on hand, black, they don't have health insurance, and if they get sick, God forbid, they don't have a chance to heal because today our health care looks like it. And the biggest fear of Serbian citizens is that they get sick, because if they get sick, they won't have a chance to heal. We propose instead of this law, which was passed by a minister who went to do some important work in the meantime, although it is very rare in the Assembly and who thanked the MPs for the adopted Labour Act, I suggest that he address the position of workers in Serbia, who are in a position to work for those little wages in conditions that are not for a man in Europe as it is now in the 21st century. They are certainly in addition to receiving the lowest wage in the worst position when it comes to the protection of labour measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36290	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36291	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 107. You know, I'd ask you, you just didn't pay attention, we have a man here who falsely introduces himself, and he claims he's the move. I don't know that this option has ever come up with some choices, but we can't deceive the public and let someone present themselves falsely here and represent themselves with some kind of movement, yet to say – We've put up with nothing. Who are they? Here we see an individual who, by that name, never went to the polls, and I have no idea there's been some changes. I ask you in the future, just so you don't deceive the public, to react and to warn the MP to violate the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36292	Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: No. No, no, no, Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36293	Article 107. Rules of Procedure. I'm reporting as an individual, as Mr. Djukanovic called me. I am a People's MP, I do not belong to any member of the Parliament, I am not an independent MP, or an independent MP, as you sign me up. There is no such provision here in the Rules of Procedure. There is no such thing as an independent MP in this Rules of Procedure. You signed me for a few months from the Parliament of the Movement for PRECRET. When the PRECRET Movement started to bother you, you took it off and put an unfounded signature on the Rules of Procedure. And now Mr. Djukanovic is insulting me here in front of you. I went to elections with my name and last name and I was on the list of one party, not anymore, as his party was in the Serbian Radical Party, so it was no longer, and it was signed at that time with the Serbian Progressive Party, that is, the parliamentary round forward Serbia. I am not allowed to do so because you have an unequal relationship with the opposition and with the government and that you allow insult here in the Assembly. So, a member of 107 was injured and I ask you to warn Mr Djukanovic, there is no independent MP, I am not an individual, I am an MP for the PRECRET Movement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36294	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. You said yourself, you're comparing something that can't be compared. So, you mentioned a group of MPs, and now you're an independent MP. But not wanting to go in... (Janko Vesenović, from the post: There is no solo MP, read. But there's no movement to the People's Assembly... (Janko Veselinović, from the place: There, it is registered, it exists. You mentioned yourself, comparing the name of the parliamentary group. So, the parliamentary group may be called, but not to enter Mr. Veselinovic... (Janko Veselinović, from town: How is Zivkovic a Nova party? ) Mr. Veselinović, if we're not going in, the New Party went to elections in the band, in the coalition with DS, so again you're comparing something that you can't compare, but it's your manners, I don't want to enter. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36295	Member of the 103rd Honorable Chairman, because just before a gentleman who doesn't know what it is, he called on a member to whom I have called, and you had to react to warn him and tell him that he has no right to call on that member, and he has further violated the Rules of Procedure. And on the other hand, it seems to me that he insulted his colleagues who he went to the polls with, since he put himself above them, perhaps above Mr Tadic himself. I don't really care, but he's here only Janko Veselinović, there's no movement for PRECRET, and I'm asking you to remind him in the future because he doesn't have the right to falsely represent himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36296	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. He's not in the O.R. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36297	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the minister is not yet in the O.R., here it has been almost 15 minutes since Mr. Veselinović spoke, but it is not surprising that the results of the work, concerning employment and related to the end of safety and health at work, are not such that the government or the resolution minister have what to commend and for this reason it is quite clear. As our authorised representative, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, spoke as authorized in front of the DS parliamentary club, Serbian workers are today the first priority of cardiovascular disease, followed by malignant diseases. Serbia's workers today are the first in Europe to be killed by cardiovascular diseases, Serbia's workers are today the first in Europe to be killed by malignancies. This affects productivity, it also affects motivation, it affects the development of GDP, which, as we heard in the exposé and daily statements by the prime minister of Serbia, is the foundation of the government's goal. When we look at one broader context and one story and the objectives of the government that is informed citizens from day to day that we are getting better and better, on the other hand, workers in Serbia are working in ever worse and worse conditions unprotected, not only by legislation, but there is no good intentions than those who resolutely represent them as ministers. It is easier and cheaper, we also heard today from Mr Dusan Milisavljevic that he is investing in prevention when it comes to various risks from the causes of various diseases present at work. Today, the government of the Republic of Serbia is not paying enough attention even to legislation, let alone in practice. The vibrations, the noise, the radiation, the dust, it's all what the Serbian worker faces today, and we think it's a state that's unsustainable. Today, there are not many who work in Serbia. We heard government officials say he's a lot of public sector employees. We say he's not a lot of public sector employees, we say he's a little employed in the private sector. Today we have targets declared by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and employment is falling. It only grows in polls that represent a fairy tale for the Serbian public. Work force poll, that's not true, not to say a harsh word. It represents fiction and represents a means for a day-to-day political struggle, so that the government or the Serbian Progressive Party or the party of the resolutely in charge of Minister Vulin, I do not know the exact name, represents itself as a party that does something or a government that has really some exact results. Trafo stations, power lines, we had a problem in Vinci, we had other places. Today we are talking about the law, i.e. the amendments and additions to the Health Safety Act at Work, and the Law in Serbia, e.g. In 1986, it was still in effect when it came to radiation. Forty micro-bodys are allowed, and therefore the trafo stations are built by houses and remote leads above kindergartens, schools and kindergartens. So 0.4 microbodies, for example, are today a standard for the World Health Organization and the European Union, but Serbia is more than three decades behind it. Since these cosmetic changes are here today to tell someone that they take care of safety and health at work, this proposal does not contain extensive or radical changes to existing laws. All is to comply with laws such as the Labour Act or the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The Democratic Party believes that any improvement in workers' and employees' rights is in general a special right to security and health, given that the government of the Republic of Serbia has not done much when it comes to workers' rights in its mandate. That's why we voted against, and we were and stayed in that position, against the Labour Act. He was written, as we had the opportunity and we see, by the dictatorship of foreign investors and employers, by the dictatorship of foreign capital, large capital and such solutions will not contribute to greater employment. A fixed-term contract, which is just one example, which is two years old and which can be broken up every day, affects young people the most. No wonder in the end that they are in Serbia right now most likely to leave Serbia as soon as possible, especially those who are qualified. Ninety thousand people left Serbia for three years, with working skills, qualified workers looking for work in Serbia and unable to find it. The right to work is fundamental economic and social law. So we have to ask the question – what exactly happened to the number, or unemployment rate, which, according to all the polls of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is that Serbia flourishes and many countries and in the environment can envy it in the European Union? A famous administrative rate that is not mentioned and says that in Serbia over 30% of the unemployed is what life is, and that is what happens every day in cities and municipalities across Serbia. Life doesn't live in the excel table. Life is what we meet on the street every day. We have the impression that the government of the Republic of Serbia has given birth, when it comes to the population, to give birth to citizens and that they have no idea how to live in Serbia today and how citizens who want to get to work survive from the first to the 30th of the month. The number of employees, according to the resolution ministry, is increasing, the unemployment rate is dropping, and they are skeptical when it comes to these statements, not only the public in Serbia, but the professional public, who spoke on the subject several times and who warned that in the case of fictitious reports, the labour force poll, Serbia cannot even make a strategy to deal with this problem because of untrue data. And the fiscal council suggested that it was very bad to fire 75,000 people in a few years. What about only 92,000 workers working in 500 companies that have to be disposed of by the end of May 2016? It's from today for a little over half a year. Barely 10% will be saved. It only speaks of the ignorance, incompetence of those who made a plan to get Serbia out of the crisis. More and more unemployed, more and more those who live much worse, while only a narrow circle of people, a close government, for these three, four years lives better. Today we are talking about the protection and safety of health at work, and the government is implementing measures that will lead to the dismissal of doctors and workers. For this reason, I brought a table, which says that health workers, educational workers, soldiers, police officers, the only one in Europe, when it comes to Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia, who have a reduction in earnings, are the only ones in Europe. In most countries, these profits are increasing, in some they are frozen, in some there are no changes, they are at the same level. It is the only blue point in Serbia that reduces the salaries of educational workers, health workers, police officers, soldiers, judges, all those who make up the public sector in Serbia. We think it's bad. We feel it is a shame that in the 21st century we still cannot boast that we know that the percentage of the unemployed in Serbia is calculated. At the administrative rate, I repeat, it's more than a million people and that's what the fact is. These things that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been saying today have also been said by some governments during the 1990s. The bill of law is a façade of nature. We will support it, because at least in principle it advocates improving workers' rights, but we believe that nothing fundamental in Serbia will change. There are fewer people who are safe today when it comes to employment. There are more and more of those who are trying to find a chance beyond Serbia's borders. We think it is irresponsible by the government of the Republic of Serbia and we believe that although we will support these amendments and amendments to the law, we believe that the situation in which the Serbian worker is presently the worst in the last three decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36298	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36299	Thank you. You know, whether the profits were reduced only in Serbia, they weren't, but in most of the countries you're talking about there was no robbery privatisation that took place in this country for decades. In most countries, there was no robbery privatisation that left more than a million people out of jobs. In most of the countries that were mentioned here, there was no robbery privatisation that completely destroyed the Serbian economy and that, in two years' time, what was destroyed here in 2000, it would not, but that it had begun to recover, it did. I was wondering when the law debate would stop, and here, now I've got the answer. So far, we've been discussing laws. Someone thought that the solutions were better, someone that was worse, someone was trying to find their own corner, someone was bragging, someone was moaning, totally fine and legitimate, but then, of course, we got to the ground of those who don't understand in the law, in the profession and practice even less, and then they were dealing with politics and flat-rate political attacks, nothing else. Here, I was just wondering when the expert debate would stop, when the party would start? Here, the party's started, as we can see. It is very interesting that no one says the IMF is the biggest liar on the globe and that they should be forbidden not to be in Serbia, but that they should be forbidden to exist. It is very interesting never to hear in this House say that the World Bank should be arrested and carried out on guard duty from this country. I can't hear anyone in this country say that, say, the German Chancellor needs to be shut down. Why? Well, these are all people who said that unemployment was reduced in Serbia, that they were satisfied with the quality of reforms, that they saw something progressing. Those who criticize us for it never say it to their faces, and they meet on diplomatic receptions. It would be an opportunity for the IMF chief to say he's an impertinent liar. I don't know why they don't tell him I'm a liar. Why, say, don't they say, here are the World Bank gentlemen, October 20th the government will have a meeting with them, why don't they wait in front of the government, here, I'll provide them with a meeting, to tell the World Bank gentlemen that they're the cross-referencing liars who don't know anything? They keep saying unemployment in Serbia has fallen. Not me, not the government, the World Bank and the IMF say unemployment has fallen in Serbia. So, liars and incompetent and unprofessional, tell them please. Help yourself, to all of us, to cleanse them of this delusion, to open their eyes, to believe that there are economic results in this country, imagine? If you hadn't told them that, they would have lived in error. So, all of the world's institutions are liars and incompetent, because they say something is going on better in Serbia, which is something of a decline in unemployment. If you ask me, is that enough? It's not close enough. If you ask me if 17.9% are unemployed, as we have today, better than 25% of what it was like when we took responsibility for this country, yes, it's much better. Is this methodology measured by the same rules, as measured at the time when the parties of the former regime were in power? Yeah, it's measured. If it was lied then, it's true now, if it's true then, it's true now. If the IMF, the World Bank and representatives of all other relevant countries in the world, who have dealt with the Serbian economy, believe that the Serbian economy has begun to advance which is so difficult for you to acknowledge. Say it's not enough, tell me it would be faster, here, we'll forget that in the last 12, 13 years it wasn't so fast, it doesn't matter, but come out and tell me better, we'd be faster, it's not enough, but don't say anything, because it's not true, it's not true that there's no progress. There's progress, and it's recognised to us by the whole world, it's admitted by mathematics. Now, since, of course, statistics are no longer valid, the IMF has been cheated, the World Bank has been cheated, the unsuspecting, no one knows anything, everything's fine, back to the fields of the one where there's no lying. Money. No statistics, no money. How is it measured that someone is employed? By paying contributions to a pension fund, being measured, or being paid out of a clean hobby, he likes the idea of going like that and paying himself off doing nothing, not registered, not anywhere, or starting to work. This is the data, this is the math, this is the money. So, since 7 December 2013, when, as you know, a ban on public sector employment has been imposed, the percentage of people who left the public sector, which through rationalisation, through a natural outflow, so through retirement, is 4.9. That's to tell you, almost in the head, 34 thousand people. So, according to the pension fund of the public sector company, which is in the public property code, the public property of 34 thousand less, 34 thousand people pay less contributions from the public sector. Unsuspecting. At the same time from private or so-called. real sector increase by 5.6%. Fifty-nine thousand names and last names pay contributions to the pension fund more. As a result, the pension fund, here is the conclusion with this month, has withdrawn from the mandatory donations that are foreseen, since as you know you never have enough money for pensions, but from the budget it always has to make up for something, withdrew 9.9 billion dinars, because there are 59,000 reported more. You can hate it. You can consider that a little, not enough, too much, whatever you want, but that's a fact. It's a fact, like the fact that we came from 25% of the unemployed to 17.9%, 25% of the unemployed are still significantly higher than 17.9%. I'm not satisfied with the number, I believe it must and can and will be less, but the country of robbery privatisation so effectively, so terribly destroyed by the former regime's parties cannot hope to change in two years what has been so fundamentally destroyed for 12 years. Once again, I call upon everyone who thinks that nothing is true to say to the IMF, to the World Bank and to everyone else that they are incompetent liars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36300	Thank you. The word is Balša Bozovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36301	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no waistline here because the minister in charge, who had already had one comprehensive reform of labour rights in the 1990s, as a member of the JUL, did not understand things well or remained unclear from that period. The unemployment rate, you can ask colleagues on your right, is calculated as follows. It's equal to the number of unemployed at the Bureau and the number of people who work or look for a job. It's, if you want, honest or true statistics. Your party statistics aren't interested in anyone at all. Why didn't we talk about the profession? Because there are no professions here, because you have passed a Labour Act that was praised only by banks in Serbia, but not by citizens, large capitalists and the American Chamber of Commerce. When it comes to methods and the way you calculate the unemployment rate to be unemployed, this is the definition of your ministry, it needs to be workingable between 15 and 65 years of age and actively seeking employment. What does it mean he's actively seeking employment? That means he's registered with the National Employment Service. The day someone doesn't answer, for example, for reasons of having a job interview, he's no longer unemployed. If he picks up a day early, he's not busy, if he picks up a day later, he's not unemployed. Mr. Vulin, I'm surprised that there are 17% of unemployment in this way that you're calculating this. You're an absolute genius.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36302	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36303	You hired over half a million people in your term. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36304	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36305	Thanks for the compliments, I shouldn't have, but thank you very much. I didn't count on this. These are your methodologies. These are parties of the former regime, as Rules of Procedure in the Assembly, brought and applied for years. If you're angry, get mad at the mirror, and don't put me in that mirror. Stand alone in front of the mirror. What you see is the product of you and your political organizations who ruled this country, and it has nothing to do with me, nor the Rules of Procedure in the Assembly, any connection. You yourself brought in a methodology where the National Employment Service calculates for a labour survey. You yourself brought in a methodology where the Republic Statistics Institute calculates the number of employees and unemployed and it is a reference institution. We couldn't help you with anything, but we couldn't help you. You're mad at yourself. You're mad at your methodologies. You're mad at your regime. I'm a team I don't really have anything. What I've told you, therefore, is 59,000 names and last names that pay contributions, and so far they haven't paid them, that's the point. That's the point, that's the increase, that's the employment. You probably didn't find it interesting to listen, but I did say how many people were employed just on the basis of a solution to the labour inspection. They're people who used to be in the gray zone, and now somebody finally got to them, so we changed something. The Labour Act is mentioned here. I remember that a political party in the former regime wrote a statement saying that the Council of Europe's decision, i.e. the opinion of the Council of Europe on the Law on the Work of the Worst Law, did not comply with European norms, that the inefficient, bad, welcomed such celebrations, statements, fireworks, until it realized that the Council of Europe had actually been defined by the law passed by the same party from the time of the former regime in 2011. I remember their joy, because they thought it was this law. It's not this law. This is a good law, as you know, it's very supportive.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36306	On what basis, Mr. Bozovic? (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. He didn't mention your name. Last time I read the Rules of Procedure a little wider, because the parties of the former regime were mentioned. You're not even authorized, and even if you were, the minister talked about the methodology, who established the rules of methodology. I don't see what's wrong with that. I could simply give you the right to a replica. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36307	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues from the opposition, I will try to be as much on the subject as possible, not to turn around or spread a story about some things that might lead us to some topics that we can discuss by tomorrow morning without saying anything new. What is the situation in the field of working relations, workers know very well, and there are those of us who remember a little longer, not as younger colleagues from the new opposition of yesterday's government. We remember those of us who have been opposition since 2000, remember those of us who have been members of parliament since 2000, remember how you've passed labour laws, remember how you've adopted privatisation laws, and the workers remember that they've been out of work and hundreds of thousands, so up to a million workers are out of work, precisely because of the policy implemented by the former regime, and precisely because of the policy that's been conceived in a document that you can read today. I'd like to ask my distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, and I know it's not easy to be an opposition, but I remind you, please don't throw it away, please remember when you were in power, we weren't throwing it, as we patiently listened, we waited patiently for you to show what you know, and you had, God, 12 years to show yourself, that your policy, your political action, that your effects and it gave. It all culminated in hundreds of thousands of fired workers, tens of thousands of ruined businesses. Tens of thousands of families lost their existence and had to look for their existence somewhere on the side. Today, we are not talking about how these people have lost their jobs, today we should talk about how to increase the safety and health of those who work, those who work, after robbing privatisation and the implementation of a liberal capitalist concept that has introduced the former DOS at the head of a party that is now in opposition. On purpose, I don't want to tell which party, so I don't give the possibility of a replica. You see how they recognize themselves, very well. So today we're talking about the rights and opportunities to improve the security of those who, lucky people, who still work today and those unfortunate people, are conditionally said, who had to demand their existence by engaging in some foreign, foreign jobs, markets working abroad. Let me start from the beginning, so I agree that today is very difficult to talk about, especially when we have in mind that over half a million people are fighting for existence and we are MPs of power, MPs who support the work of this government, surely we have suggestions and a desire for these people to be as few as possible. Surely we have a desire for as many people as possible to work, but I really must give this opportunity to acknowledge the efforts that the Government of the Republic of Serbia led by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic is doing to eliminate all the negative consequences of the 12-year-old capitalism policy that has been carried out, as an experiment on all Serbian citizens since 2000. I mentioned a document that I can present to you, because then I have a chance to be an MP, too. It is the ex-, late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's exposés in which everything, absolutely all the details of economic policy, privatisation, economy at all are listed, so just look at and remember if anything from this exposé was unrealized and whether there was anything left to end and whether what remained of the Serbian economy after 2012, was the result of just such a policy. Not only did many workers run out of work, but those who remained to work, in fear of losing their jobs, were forced to ignore all those opportunities to protect their rights, and there were many. Many earlier and many more were in some earlier periods that you may now be describing by setting up. Fortunately, people in Serbia remember well, so they know what their labour rights were before 2000, what their labour rights were from 2000 to 2012. We, as MPs who have supported the government's work since 2012, are trying to improve the situation as much as possible in this area. Many workers have suffered the consequences due to their non-compliance with the criteria and rules governing safety at work. One example, unfortunately, which I will point out is with fatal outcomes, which occurred in one, perhaps once, now and the largest rubber factory "Tiger" in Pirot recently. Unfortunately, three workers lost their lives. Perhaps these workers would be better protected if even then a better system of work protection and security and health at work were implemented. Perhaps someone who has previously been responsible for creating such a climate, such conditions, may at least be a little ashamed of what he's been doing, and we're going to try today and try to fix the situation in that area in the future, as we're trying to fix the situation in all the areas that you've ruined during your government. I do not want to talk about the specifics of these legislative proposals, I just want to point out my full support for the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Vulin, headed by the Ministry of Labour to improve in this area, without wanting to look too much at what it was with the desire that these half a million or 600,000 people, who are crying for work today, have the opportunity to get their employment done as soon as possible, and that those millions and a half or how many employees of two million, have the best conditions to work. Today, I was really impressed by the wishes of my friends and comrades, members of the Socialist International for the Protection of Workers' Rights. Comrades and comrades, it's a shame you didn't show that concern when you were in power. Today, we, whether we are comrades, whether we are gentlemen, will remind you of a post office or a saying that is valid, as it is said in our people – while we were friends, we lived as gentlemen, now we are gentlemen and we live, I don't know how, much worse. So, what you could have done, you did. Help if you have any suggestions to improve these legal proposals. Everything that is well-intentioned we will accept, everything that is in order to improve these legal proposals, we will adopt, we will talk as you did not know how to talk at the time of your term of office, at the time of your government. Never, but you never accepted amendments coming from the opposition. If you have something concrete to contribute, to make a better proposal in these laws, why not? I am absolutely sure that the MPs of the government, as well as the members of the government, will give their voice of support to your concrete proposals, as has been countless times in the previous period since 2012. And this is a positive example of how power should be exercised. We all work, not in the interest of the protection of the government, but in the interest of protecting those who live from their work, who earn their bread with their hands, and these are enough today. We want them to be as many as possible and we want their desires to come true with the best of their lives. Unfortunately, there are also negative examples that I also have to quote. Many have lost their jobs, many successful companies once, leading producers of industrial products, not only in Serbia, not in Yugoslavia, but in Europe today, do not exist, not to list. In each city, each of us has a dozen examples of those that can be cited, but today we are not talking about this, we are talking about a bill on health safety at work, which tries to protect rights and improve the position of those lucky people who are still working despite the fact that the Serbian economy has been robbed in a liberal capitalist way, which you have implemented. In addition, we would like to see examples that existed in the previous period and those who had to look for their existence through work or by engaging in foreign markets abroad, at least to improve the situation in the area. The fact is, since the 1980s, the law has been in force today. The fact is, none of you wanted to improve the situation in that field, and the fact is that there were any problems in that field. I'll remind you how many things could be mentioned when our workers were engaged in foreign markets, which in Russia, which in some other countries when they could barely return, when their rights were absolutely not protected. They ran out of journals. They ran out of money and couldn't wait for the chance to come back. My little one appealed, demanded, even begged for the situation in the area to be improved as soon as possible. I thank the Government's representatives, especially Minister Voulina, for having the opportunity today to discuss the laws on the subject, in particular the Law on Conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection, because so far, I point out once again, these workers have absolutely not been protected. Should it be recalled how many of these examples have been so far and how much of a burning problem has been put on the agenda of this Parliament and which has had to practically challenge the debate on this legislative proposal? You just haven't done it in those 12 years. If you have a problem or if you have a proposal to advance this bill, I say again, suggest, we adopt, we will consider, we will discuss, we will discuss, why not. Once again, I must point out only one thing that fell into my eyes when I examined this legal text. We can really talk here about people going as employees at domestic companies working on foreign markets. The big problem is how to protect the right of those who go to foreign markets for their own personal responsibility as tourists, who go as fishermen sometimes, but not to their own country, but to foreign countries. How do such people who, with the help of some intermediaries, find themselves abroad, start working and have a big problem when they remain unprotected, when our diplomatic and consular representations find themselves in wonder how to help them when they're talking to them for help, and they can't? This legislative proposal is good and I would ask everyone in this country, whether they are in power or opposition, if they have a concrete proposal to solve and overcome this problem to make a concrete proposal and will certainly be supported. Once again, my smallness as a member of the Socialist Movement, acting within the SNS parliamentary club, will support these legislative proposals precisely for the reasons set out to correct the situation of this area and to undermine what was negative in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36308	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic, who in a very specific way explained why he would support this bill. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36309	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And I would like to commend the specific way the previous speaker spoke, and I particularly liked the part about the tolerance of the opposition at the time when the DS made most of it in the Assembly. I think that Mrs. Comic may best testify to the extent that the opposition was tolerated at the time and that she was physically attacked by opposition MPs. In those words, there is as much truth as there is about how the opposition has been tolerant, as well as in the words that our economy has been failing for the last 15 years, and probably that by then it was booming at the time that Mr. Vulin was last as the closest associate of Mirjana Markovic was in power. As Mr. Milisavljevic said, we really think that prevention is extremely important when it comes to caring about the health of our workers. So questions arise – how will workers working in Serbia today take care of their health? What are the conditions in which they work? What conditions do the states provide for them to work, and how can they even take care of the quality of their lives? How can unpaid workers take care of their health? How can drivers in our administrations who have a 150 dinar daily now eat quality food in cases where they're somewhere on the ground all day, and what can they afford for 150 dinars at all? What healthy life can they lead, and how can they care for their work? How can people who fear for their jobs every two years take care of their health, and how much will they care about their health, but also about the health of their family, women who work in conditions in which no one should work? Of course, this does not apply to all workers in Serbia. When we talk about the public sector, it's very important to say that we actually have two public sectors. One public sector is the public sector where employment is banned, in which wages are reduced, with salaries below the average, in which there are not enough workers. That's where I mean health care, that's where I think about schooling, that's where I think about all the real professions that people have. We also have other public sectors where mostly party activists are employed, in which there are no bad conditions for work, in which salaries have been paid a lot of averages and in which, as we see from the data, there is no ban on employment because, despite the ban on public sector employment, you somehow found a way to hire 9,000 of your party activists. The minister said in his opening statement that we actually don't know how many workers we have abroad. We may not know how many workers we have abroad, but that's why we know how many doctors we have abroad. Only this year did 2,000 doctors request permission from the Medical Chamber to leave Serbia because they belong to this unauthorized public sector in which when one of the doctors retires, the entire wards of hospitals are immediately closed or when they leave for vacations are lifted because they are not enough. These doctors who work for 42,000 dinars go abroad because they are also subject to a reduction in wages. They are also subject to a reduction in pensions when they are retired and are subject to a ban on public sector employment. So I think that besides not knowing how many employees we have abroad, it's obvious that the minister doesn't even know how many employees we have here, because that story about how uncomfortable it is that we're doing well, how public finances are as a pharmacy and how much praise we all are, that's what Mr. Ministers can tell everyone, but you still can't trust Serbian citizens and try to tell them about this big progress, so you'll hear what they're going to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36310	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36311	Unfortunately, we haven't heard anything about the law or the legal solutions, but I have good news - elections. We go to the elections and then nice citizens are satisfied with the policies of the former regime's parties, say, to the province's parliament and victory in the province's elections. Bojan Pajtic, all the things he's been waiting for all this time to sort of stall, is now the right opportunity to call the election and get the election on the wings of all the truths that are being mentioned here. It just doesn't bother him. It doesn't say anything -- I'm going to the election, now's an opportunity, you see that this government is no good, and the citizens see it, it sees the whole world, that we all see, here's the opportunity. There's no choice. Until we discuss them, there will be no choice. Those who are satisfied don't seem to have a choice. Here we are who are in power, we believe there should be a choice, and those who are in opposition flee from the elections as the devil from the cross. It's just amazing. You know, apart from forgetting now that the whole world said what it said, except that we have the exact data, we're now deliberately starting to deal with things that, of course, have absolutely nothing to do with the law, with none of the laws, which I am truly sorry about. I'm talking about party employment. Wait, party employment, the representatives of the former regime's parties speak. Here, come to my ministry and you'll notice that I've replaced one single assistant. The people sitting next to me, except with the exception of one man, have been in this ministry for decades. Come on, you find me in the circuit administration of one member of the SNS or one member of the Socialist Movement, at the level of the cook, not the assistant regional secretary, but the cook, the driver. You won't find a single one. So don't talk about party employment. We could, of course, as well as any irresponsible authority, be irresponsible to power like the former regime's government and continue to be in charge, hire our party personnel, fire those who brought parties before us and rule peacefully, not thinking about making ourselves a problem by reducing our daily lives, eliminating various givings. Well, wait, if we've lifted some journals, as you say, and you say we've been partying, then we've abolished our members. No, we cut off people who work for themselves. I'll tell you, the Department of Labour lifted the logs a year ago, because we thought they were unnecessary. Because we thought it was simply to that extent unnecessary. When you go abroad you have very limited, and in internal traffic you have no need, or you have very little needs. What do we do, we all have to save some money. It is better to reduce our daily lives to a smaller number of people in Serbia who can count on the logs than to cut everyone's salaries and pensions indefinitely. Isn't it better to recover the country and raise wages and pensions for everyone, not just those in the public sector? It's just people who work in the public sector that are always being talked about here. What about those who work in the private sector? Nobody's talking about them. No one here mentioned them. Now, that's an understanding of a policy where it only fights to get to the public sector, and you don't have to worry about economic principles, hire whoever you want, the state will be in charge, pay the wages, pay the costs, just find the legal basis and put in the money. What about those who work in the private sector, who have to earn every penny of their salary? Those in the public sector must, too. Maybe they didn't have to, but now I have to, and I'm proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36312	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Rakovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36313	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, in order to be educated by a specialist doctor takes 11 years, all together with the medical school. What was human policy, what was the plan and the program of education, we know. You can figure out what time it all happened. Because they took so much care of specialists' doctors and the simple replacement of those who need to retire one day, that's why we're in this situation right now. I don't think it's funny, co-worker. That's very sad. Those who work now also work two shifts to cover for sick citizens, and those whom you have made such a plan and a schedule for education, for education, for specialisation in the previous period, unfortunately, are leaving, but much less than 2005, 2006, 2007. That's the situation. As far as the diaries are concerned, long ago in my Institute of Public Health the abolished diaries for all employees, except for the director who was the feather of your Democratic Party. This is now going into the budget, and it went on private trips and foreign exchange diaries around the white world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36314	Thank you. The word is by MP Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36315	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, I wanted to deal with this Labour Health Safety Act and the Law that deals with staffing abroad, but first of all, I would just like to refer to recent discussions, because I can't just stay inert about it, because I spent ten years in employment, practicing active employment training. It's not exactly a fact that if you don't come in there tomorrow, someone wipes you out, you come the day before, someone wipes you out again, and we literally reduce the number of unemployed in the labour market. That's not true at all. I'm surprised that 1800 employees of this large firm at the level of all Serbia don't raise a word, because I know that dedicated colleagues are doing their job, and they are dealing with a huge number of trainings in the area. By the way, my colleagues are serving the Development Fund. The full incentive means of employment are also carried out by the National Service. We're also a free service of our local self-governments to implement the distribution of these funds. Everything is absolutely done within the framework of regular work obligations. That's why that story doesn't stand, that there's a team of people sitting there squirming, sleeping and just pushing a key and deleting people off the record. I totally agree with the minister, cut the unemployment rate from 25 to 17, that's a huge number, believe me. It's very small shifts. Secondly, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is not only concentrated on the area of employment. We'll have opportunities when we've created a budget and voted for that budget for next year, so we'll see how much we'll fight for the unemployed and how much for them we'll single out. Now I would like to say something first and I understand absolutely the government's intention, i.e. the resolute ministry, that a very serious minister is dealing with his associates in the gray economy. Some employers don't think they're even aware of how much they're at risk when they don't solve the status of their employees, or when they're keeping the workers black, for the simple reason that they only think of the problems of the moment when the problem arises. When everything works out, it's absolutely fine, but when there's a possible injury to work, then we're in trouble, then we've got litigation, then we've got evidence and huge judgments that need someone to pay. An important newspaper in the organisation of safety and health affairs at work is the possibility that job security and health at work employers can carry out themselves in some less risky activities, if there are 20 employees, and is not obliged to have a professional exam on practical skills to perform job safety and health at work. In high-risk activities, the level of competences of the person involved in these affairs rises. As far as the work security license is concerned, there is certainly an increase in the number of legal persons or entrepreneurs' employees. Now it's two employees, and when it comes to the period of validity of the licence, it's now extended to five years. By tightening the conditions for obtaining a license to carry out work security and health at work, as well as the introduction of a five-year period, which is subject to the said licence, the quality of the business of legal persons and entrepreneurs performing these tasks is accelerated, but the fact is that a good part of them is shut down after this business. If a legal person ceases to comply with legally prescribed standards for obtaining a licence, he shall be given the measure of prohibition until the conditions have been met, the maximum period of 90 days, which is fully in line with the Inspectorate Control Act. I think that we have indeed made, or our government and our respective ministry, that we have passed a very good and correct Labour Act, we have passed the Law on inspection supervision, but I must also tell you that only 250 labour inspectors have been engaged in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. Do you know where the key to success is? Probably when we got those inspectors mixed up, when he's no longer acting, for example. The inspector in Kruševec, born from Kruševac, does not act as an inspector from Svilinc in Svilinc, but comes from Kragujevac, Belgrade, and then we can see the first results, we can track and make payments through the pension fund, but employers are calling for brains and starting to pay certain benefits and to report people to work relations. When we talk about the Law on Conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection, it is clear that the Republic of Serbia is a country of emigration, but also a country that has a long tradition of sending our employees to temporary work abroad. Employing employees to temporary work abroad can also be seen as a result of a high unemployment rate in Serbia, as a mechanism for regulating the labour market, creating new jobs and increasing income for both employees, employers and the state. This law aims to unite legal matter, to give modern legal solutions that are certainly tailored to market, economic, financial, legal and constitutional socio-political order, to establish a new legal concept, legal recognition of the regulation of certain specific forms of posting of employees to temporary work abroad, as well as special protection of individual staff matter. This law should not prevent the business of domestic employers abroad and that they open their departments, i.e., to say, daughter companies and other forms of business, but we should fight for our employees abroad to make adequate profits and to achieve correct other working and accommodation conditions, travel costs and other costs. It is also important to say that this law provides transparency of data on employers who refer employees to temporary work. I think this law has made a great contribution, that now that monitoring control is on a much higher level than it has ever been. Who will be affected by these proposed legal solutions? It will certainly have its own reference to both economic operators and employees, as well as to the holders of many public powers. It is important to note that all relevant institutions have given their opinion in such legislative proposals. I look forward to the fact that the round table was held on 7 May 2015. It was a public debate from 11 June to 30. June, well, please colleagues who had serious grudges could have said anything in the public debate. I'm going to go back to the fact that this is a wonderful opportunity to fight against black labor through this law. In the short term, by working on black, you make a lot faster, you get a lot faster to get money, and then you do well, but that means you're going to lose a lot, taking a lot of risks at the same time. From all of this, it follows that when you have black workers, you don't pay taxes, you don't have your own social contributions, you don't pay VAT. In the end, I'd just add, we've passed a high-quality Employment Act, an inspection control Act, this is the third law in that set, I think it'll give the expected effects. Of course, in the voting day, I will vote on all three proposals, or all three legal decisions that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36316	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36317	Thank you. Before I ask the question of the Minister concerning the Law on Employment abroad and the differences in employment in a certain and indefinite manner, I have a proposal for all of us to be prone to data, as we are witnesses that we often abuse or interpret each and every one in our own way, that together with this Ministry and some others we make a clear overview of the basic indicators of Serbia's economy between 1988 and 2000 and 2000. – In 2012, which would include GDP growth, the volume of goods for export, infrastructure construction and employee movement, including all the risks to which people were exposed in one or another period. I think that the comparative data for the past 12 years, both by 2000 and afterwards, would help the dialogue, and I hope for the dialogue because I have had objections to the Committee on European Integrations on a member as regards the establishment of different rights for people who are undefined under the Labour Act which is in force in Serbia and on a set under the Labour Act. The article was written vaguely and it was my objection with a proposal to correct the amendment or to make it clear in the debate what was wanted for what was written in the article, because it can be interpreted. We have experience with ill-written members, we have experience with insufficient will to hear objections that serve only to make provisions in a member of the unambiguous. If we had listened to the law on the number of employees, we would not have had Article 20 temporarily out of force, so I ask you now, first of all, to the people who want to work abroad, unequivocally to say that this provision applies to all those who are being sent as employees, which is the rule and the exception of those who are employed for a certain time. This parameter of all economic indicators, in 1988 until 2000 until 2012, would help Serbia develop overall as long as we are blind to comparing these parameters, we will tap into place and yell at each other different interpretations of the same data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36318	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36319	If I can only help, I don't know how many other colleagues have followed or read, the amendment proposal, so the fundamental problem here is, we've predicted that a worker can be referred to work abroad for not 24 months, unless he's concluded a contract on indefinite time, such as a provision of the Labour Act, but that he can do it longer than that, as an exception to the Labour Act, because this is how we went, these are the observations of the profession, the remarks of large enterprises that do it, because. I'll give you an example, you happen to get, say, our companies worked in Sochi, building a stadium. It can't be limited to 24 months, or to 12 months, it's usually longer. Now, what's the solution? That the employer accepts a worker indefinitely, but after that he will no longer need that worker, because he will no longer build a stadium in Sochi. Or that we allow him not to have to interrupt his working relationship, not to cheat, not to lie, but to allow him to work abroad, to work longer this way, practically until he has a job for him. That's a good thing for a worker, because the worker's answer is that as long as he's got work to do, he can work longer. After all, workers go abroad because they make more money there, they don't go for other reasons, it's good for the worker, and it's good for the employer, because that way he can only make while he's busy he doesn't have to be afraid of the workers, he'll hire him as long as he's busy. He doesn't have to think, if there's no more work, because mostly foreign affairs are something that happens, it's not always something that he can guarantee, and that way he doesn't take any greater responsibility. It's very simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36320	Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36321	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I'm going to talk about all three laws, but given that a lot is said, I'm going to focus on something very important. First of all, I will pay particular attention to the draft law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. The minister has just explained how workers are sent and how they return. No one's going to lose their job. Namely, what's this about? I will taxfully answer any question or misunderstandings that may not have been clear to our viewers or ladies or gentlemen in the congregation. What's this about? In fact, this is an extremely good law, not made by a political party, but by experts. I'm glad I heard from Mr. Secretary that counsellors are exactly people who are longtime associates and that's the real deal, we didn't politicize this law, on the contrary. What's this about? This law, first of all, regulates the rights of employees who refer to temporary work abroad, then the conditions and obligations of employers, which is very important, then, co-operation between authorities and organisations employed in state bodies, and this concerns the protection of people who are sent abroad to work. And, in the end, this law is subject to supervision, which is very good. What does that mean? The supervision of the application of this law will work as an inspectorate for work – bravo. In light of the law, if I were to speak from the beginning, it dates back to 1980 when it was old Yugoslavia, and as the political system changes, the laws are also changing. Then, the review was in 1998, however, not good enough, because there are no good mechanisms for protecting workers sent abroad. I mean, this law is just fixing it, and how? In four ways. So there are strict rules for the employer. Co-operation between authorities and state administration organisations is necessary. This mix, i.e. that interaction, leads to the right results. What does this mean? For example, the new law provides, above all, a cut in time from employers of information to the ministry, which is very important. Then, less documentation, there's great transparency that's what this law first gives, transparency. Anyone who wants to know where someone sent abroad can be on a site that is obliged to let the employer see how many people go abroad, which are countries, which are places, meaning, taxing from a to a. Excellent, bravo for the ministry. Then, the ministry and labour inspection, tax control, compulsory social security organisation and diplomatic consular representations are in constant interaction. So whoever wants to know what's going on with our people can get through these state authorities, and if they want to know all the information about the economic operator or the employer or whoever's abroad can get nice information from the central register. Another improvement. What's still a newspaper, as far as the employer's concerned, is namely an annex contract. It's an addendum to the basic contract. No one's gonna sign the contract annex unless he likes some basic contract clause. So, another improvement. Then, when someone is sent abroad, he is educated, preparing the man. So there is no more “a throat in strawberries, ” as it was 20 years ago. I don't insult the old law, and I don't want to hurt anyone, I just want to live fast, science is in constant progress, technology, it's time to change the laws. What else is going on? It happens that a man who gets a job abroad, he has a contact person. So, the privilege is now employees who are sent abroad to work, because a man is taxing out which country he goes to, what place, what climate, whether he has an apartment, whether he's paid, how he's going to feed, how much money he's paid, whether he's going to go with his family, etc. So, absolutely everything. Extraordinary. I really don't know what to add to this law. It's just, if someone doesn't understand something, they can see how it's done in the Central Register. Today, on the basis of the employer's website, we can find it at any end of the employee's world. That was never the case. What is not good, not in law, but what has happened all these years ago, is a large number of people who left Serbia, once Yugoslavia and now Serbia, have been working on black. In the Russian Federation, it is believed that there are about 15,000 people working on black. No one knows exactly, but we'll make it right. Namely, they are treated as people who went touristic, on tourist trips. The Statistics Act is an exact science. We currently have people, or working from 15 to 64, about two million, or more specifically, two million 853 thousand 245 people. Of course, according to the data provided by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the number of certificates issued in 2013 was 7,325, which is good and in 2014 7,046 certificates issued. The countries in which it is now going are mostly Montenegro and the countries in the environment. It's kind of the closest, and there's probably still this relationship and good co-operation between the former republics. The countries that are now very important for our people who go abroad are, above all, Montenegro, Italy, Austria, France, the Czech Republic, Romania, Macedonia, Slovenia, especially a small number of doctors, I was almost in Slovenia, so I know nothing too much, before 2014 and 2012 respectively, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Norway, the Russian Federation and Belarus. What else is there to say? The most common profiles of the profession of people who refer to work abroad are mostly building engineers and electrical engineering. They're managers, programmers, but they're also all employees of these profiles. So, construction workers, from installers, welders, ceramics, foundry, locksmiths, that's what's really missing in Serbia, and maybe it's not demagogue, but it just doesn't take all the people in this country to have diplomas, someone has to do concrete jobs, and these are very well-paid jobs, both in Serbia and abroad. It should also be said that large penalties for employers are if they send a person under 18 – from 600,000 dinars to a million and a half dinars and that's great, as far as I'm concerned. The second law I'm going to talk about, but briefly, because my colleagues have said a lot, is a bill on amendments and additions to the Safety and Health Act at work. Of course this law applies to that right now. What's going on, and it's not good, it's just injuries when you're working on black. That's why there's confirmation. I just said what happened in 2013 and 2014. Someone here mentioned by an esteemed colleague that employment has dropped. That's not true. This is a productive country. There's always something going on. Fortunately for all of us, we hired 59,000 people. It's not party people, it's professional people. And a percentage of 25, as many as it was in the previous years, fell to 17.9 percent. Bravo. This is one good country, with good people, huge human potential and I hope that in a year, two and three, as we're going, this percentage will be significantly smaller. With just a few sentences, I will mention the third law – Proposal for a law on the validation of the Convention on Jurisdiction, the applicable law, the recognition and enforcement of decisions and co-operation in the matter of parental responsibility and the measure for the protection of children. As far as the Convention is concerned, it is a roof document, and if something is on the roof, it is in terms of international protection of children and is being put into operation by all the previously confirmed Convention, which is very important and I would not even discuss it. So the purpose of this Convention is that the laws will apply to parents and children's lives in the family. Thank you. An excellent and professional law-making law and the SNS will support the proposals of these laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36322	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36323	Dear Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out and repeat at the very beginning that the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection, as well as other laws from another joint principle and uniform search. The applicable law that regulates this area is from 1988. At the time he was brought in, he was the best way to regulate this area. But we will agree that it has been 17 years since then and that many changes have taken place, both in state order and in terms of social, political, economic, cultural relations in our country and in the world. For this reason, it was necessary in an effective way to protect workers who refer to work abroad, but also legally specify the conditions and procedures under which employers from the territory of the Republic of Serbia can effectively and competitively operate in modern foreign markets. It is precisely the aim of this law to speed up employment abroad and to enable employers to employ people abroad, but also to ensure that these employees are fully protected, to get what they are promised, i.e. no one cheats on them, to have safety and health at work, social and pension insurance and to receive profits. The main reasons for sending temporary workers abroad are seen, on the one hand, as a result of the high unemployment rate in the Republic of Serbia and small employment incomes, and on the other hand as a mechanism of regulation and labour markets, job creation and increased income, both for employees, employers and the state. Dear People's MPs, what sets out the basic problem of our country is that it is not known how many workers in search of better income work abroad. Several bodies have different types of partial records and statistics on this issue, as you, ministers, have listed, but at the moment, no state institution has data on the number of employees who are on temporary work abroad, or who is notifying them, nor has the possibility to do so, because the existing law does not oblige employers to report how many people are leading beyond the borders of the country and where. Stories of inhumane conditions only surface when great tragedies occur. If there is no control of the conditions in which they work, workers risk being played and abused. Workers complain most that they are directed to work abroad beyond interstate agreements, in irregular conditions, and do not get work permits, there are frauds about wages, working hours, making late or not paid at all, or being reduced, and they also complain about bad accommodation. Because of this problem, the bill is particularly important from the aspect of labour migration, the prevention of illegal employment and labour trade by suspected employers, who offer a wide range of high-income suspicious jobs in the context of the crisis. The new Law on Conditions for sending temporary workers abroad and their protection should provide a clear insight into where and how many workers from Serbia are engaged. The new Law also introduced the obligation of employers to inform the Ministry of Labour to lead workers abroad, so that we will know exactly who works, where he works and under what conditions. We hope that this bill will contribute to the better protection of our workers, because it regulates the rights of employees who refer to temporary work abroad, conditions, procedures and obligations of the employer, the co-operation of the authorities and the organisations of the state administration that protect and oversee the application of this law. The employer's obligation is to conclude, before sending an employee to temporary work abroad, an Annex to the labour contract, with the mandatory elements of the prescribed law, and to make a change to the base of insurance in a single central register, mandatory social insurance, in accordance with the regulations. The paper adopted by this law is the process of preparing an employee to refer to temporary work abroad. As part of this preparation, the employer is required to inform the employee of all relevant conditions of life in the country and the place where the employee is referred and to determine the contact of the person abroad. The employer is obliged to provide temporary work abroad, provide health, pension, disability insurance and insurance in case of unemployment, health safety at work, accommodation, nutrition, transportation for arrival and departure from work, earnings and preparation for temporary work. Any employer who directs temporary workers abroad will be obliged to inform the Ministry of Labour about how many employees work abroad, where they work and what rights they have provided. On the other hand, it facilitates employers of procedures by notifying the ministry, shortened deadlines for submitting notices, reduced documentation, and use of data already reported by employers in the central register of compulsory social security. The authorities and organisations carrying out the tasks of the state administration in relation to the supervision of the exercise of the rights of temporary staff abroad, as set out in this law, are obliged to cooperate with each other, exchange information in order to protect the rights of temporary staff to work abroad. The protection of employees during work and stay abroad is carried out by diplomatic, or consular representations of the Republic of Serbia within the framework of their work. The proposed act specifically regulates the protection of minors by prohibiting the posting of employees under 18 years of age, unless otherwise provided by law. The paper of the law is also the obligation of the employer to appoint an employee representative who will be a contact person for each problem. The new law brings much more severe sanctions for employers who violate its provisions, which should also contribute to better protection of workers. High sentences should force employers to comply with the law, provide workers with the prescribed conditions, report them taking them outside the borders. It is logical that our inspections cannot go around the world and control the conditions of work on the ground, but the law will allow them to establish better co-operation with local inspections and thus, with the help of colleagues, check anything that is suspicious. In this way, it will increase the security and protection of workers and the ministry will have information about their stay outside the country and will be able to protect them. Labour inspection will be able to address inspections in other countries by diplomatic means and thus manage the place where employees work. The passing of this law does not mean that there will be no more workers working on black, because anyone can go abroad on a tourist visa and find employment there. This law will allow those employers who refer their employees to work abroad to do so in accordance with the law or otherwise will have to pay high fines. At EU level, about a million employees are estimated to have been sent each year by their employers to other member states. According to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, about a thousand employees are referred to temporary work abroad, primarily in countries that are geographically close to us, countries of the former SFRY, but also countries with which there are traditionally good business relations like Russia, Belarus and certain African and Asian countries. If the European average is applied in the work of posted employees, the real number sent from Serbia to temporary work abroad would be tenfold the official data available by the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Fight and Social Affairs. The largest number of persons addressed and employed is in the construction sector. With Serbia's open market to foreign investors and multinational companies, new forms of reference have also emerged that do not recognise the applicable legislation as such. inter-communication movement. The interest of the European states in Serbian workers from year to year is increasing. According to data from the Serbian Chamber of Civil Engineering, our negligents are wanted in Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Switzerland, Ireland, where the diaries are between 12 and 40 euros. Tourism and catering workers are most wanted in Montenegro, Croatia, Greece and Turkey, between 12 and 15 euros. Experts in oil and gas extraction, construction technicians, engineers, chefs and bakers are wanted in Norway. Austria shows an increased need for qualified waiters and chefs during the winter tourist season. In the border area of Denmark and Sweden, the pharmaceutical industry and biotechnology have been concentrated and the needs for workers in the sector have been increased. In addition, Sweden has increased demand for chefs and builders. Germany, with which our country has a detachment signed and where Serbian workers are under state control, is looking for workers for the care sector of the elderly and children, for catering, electricians, electricians and plumbers. Perhaps the best-regulated relationship Serbia has in the case of Germany. Serbia, that is, in 1988, signed an agreement with Germany on sending employees to temporary work abroad on the basis of a labour contract. It allows employers from Serbia, who are not members of the EU, to perform their work in a simplified manner and direct their employees into the country. On the basis of the Agreement, Germany approves an annual quota on the maximum number of workers that can be employed on this basis. Serbian citizens who opt to temporarily go to work in any foreign country must know well that the job is legally sought exclusively through the National Employment Service and private agencies that have a work license, because if they decide to leave with an agency that is not registered and which does not have a work permit, they risk working without a job contract, taking away their passport, but also ending their hard work without earning a living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36324	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36325	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I will remain in my presentation at the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Safety and Health at Work and briefly state why I consider this bill to be good and that it should be voted upon. The intensive development of science and technology, new technologies and new occupations that bring us the time in which we live also require the harmonisation of existing laws covering these areas, and particularly important are provisions concerning safety and health in the work of employees. Labour injuries are a common phenomenon with us, we wanted to admit it or not, and the injury of one employee where he violates, damages or loses his health permanently is very difficult for the employee, and on the other hand it costs both the state and the employer. It is our intention to adopt this law in as many cases as possible to act preventively, means through preventive activities, to prevent causes that lead to work injury, occupational illnesses and work-related diseases, and also to prevent the causes that may lead to the loss of human lives. By entering foreign investors on our market, we have faced a new practice of protecting the health of employees, where every injury at work is treated as a loss of the entire collective, i.e. the company and where it is believed that the responsibility for the injury lies on everyone, especially those who were in charge of taking care of it, because the injuries at work interfere with and interrupt production, lead to lower income, reduce business reputation, and thus competitiveness due to the failure of contractual obligations. On the other hand, there should be no doubt that on the ground there are also numerous abuses of labour-related injury institutes, and most often by employees because such injuries take sick leave and earn 100% profit, which is certainly a phenomenon that must be reduced to the least possible extent if it cannot already be fully eradicated. Therefore, amendments and additions to this law create conditions that all participants of working-law relations take up their share of responsibility and that, through enhanced protection and field engagement through appropriate training and adequate training and employee checks, they are prepared for work for each specific workplace and never come into a situation to be exposed to any injury. A number of analyses show that injury to work is most often a human factor, when unnecessary haste and speed in work, and thus carelessness, but also because of the need to save funds necessary for quality protection in black workers, there are injuries that are sometimes fatal. In addition to persons in charge of safety and health at work and employers who have to agree their business with new solutions, I also see a very important role in the labour inspection in all of this. I believe that inspecting the work through a continuous work field will create conditions for a number of things that are unclear to employers to be clarified and applied in the right way. In practice, it happened that, for example, some companies have a inadequately qualified person who deals with the interpretation of the law and most often it turns out that in law it turns out to be the most appropriate thing for them. This further leads to the non-application of the law in the right way, and often to the injury of employees, so labour inspection may, after reporting an infringement, make a record and file a misapplication against the employer, and there is no doubt that the employer will be punished in the offence procedure. That's why I think a good part of the burden of implementing a new law is exactly on the labour inspection, which, through educational work on the ground, will, above all, be preventive. All in all, our intention is to improve existing legal solutions and bring them into line with European directives, but also to prevent future negative consequences that insufficient security and protection can cause the health of employees. This, in addition to preserving the health of employees, which is most important, reduced unnecessary costs of treatment, sickness and compensation, which could have been avoided in order to do so. Given that the existing law was passed nine years ago and that for a number of things it was already outdated and exceeded, I believe that this bill should be passed and I believe that, through time and time, we will re-innovate and bring it into line, and everything for the benefactor, employers, society and state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36326	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36327	Thank you. In today's address, I will talk about the proposal for a law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. Serbian citizens, as we all know, have been going abroad for decades, and the current law that regulates this area is 17 years old, so it was necessary to adapt and remove many shortcomings, starting with the terminology, to the core, among which the protection of workers and the lack of the employer's obligation to report to the ministry where the employees are located. This resulted in no state body in Serbia knowing how many workers currently work abroad. The basic motive for our citizens to go abroad is seen in an existential sense, both because of unemployment and because of higher profits. Workers leave mainly countries where labour shortages are lacking. However, they are often abused, staying abroad without interstate contracts, under irregular conditions, without a record of staying abroad, without social and health insurance, not getting work permits, profits are not fixed, often reduced, and sometimes not even paid. Then, there are bad conditions regarding nutrition, accommodation, which mostly tells stories about inhumane conditions surface, as mentioned earlier, when a tragedy occurs, and we had in February this year that there was a fire in the workers' barracks in Siberia, where the lives of six of our citizens were lost. The assessment of the Department of Diaspora of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that some 15,000 of our citizens are working black in the Russian Federation, and there is no record of it, because they are being held as tourists in Russia, and in fact they are mainly construction workers. We believe that the adoption of this law will improve the position of our workers abroad, that the largest number of our workers will be protected and that the work on black will come to a minimum. We are also aware that we will not be able to fully lift the work on black, because as the minister pointed out, anyone can go abroad and find employment there. What we must fight for through media campaigns is to meet our workers with rights and obligations, as well as raise awareness of the importance of respect for important legal standards, both by employers and by employees and by the state. We think it's in everyone's interest. This law also stipulates the employer's obligation to notify the competent ministry, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, to lead workers abroad, to make changes to the basic insurance base of the central register, compulsory social security, and to conclude an annex contract, thus enabling better control and keeping records of staff authorities. Also, all data will be published on the Ministry's website, providing transparency and another type of data accuracy check. Each employer is under a legal obligation to prepare workers for abroad before signing an annex to the contract, both general opportunities to meet, from climate change, political situations, as well as safety, health, insurance, wages, working time, housing, nutrition, and all about the cost of the employer. The special paper is to determine the contact of persons abroad for additional information, which would affect the quality of life and work of employees abroad, and which is also authorised to provide information to state and other bodies. By passing this law, we will have accurate records of every employee, who works, where he works, and under what conditions. As my colleague, Petronijevic, said, those who respect the law, there are no penalties for them, but for disregarding the legal provisions, the employer will be fined up to a million and a half dinars. A similar type of doing business, these are errors that are unacceptable because it is about the life and work of our employees abroad. I therefore believe that the level of fines should be increased. The supervision of the application of this law will carry out inspections for work. We know that our inspectors will not travel around the world and control the conditions of field work, but by law and international agreement they are allowed to obtain data from the field and verify the achievement of contractual obligations between the employer and the employee. This law refers to workers who are in working relation to a certain time and the employer sends them to work abroad, after which they return to work with the employer. The same applies to workers who have established a working time relationship, so the employer sends them to work abroad, with their stay abroad not being accounted for during that contracted period of work. In addition to this, it also refers to employees who, for the sake of their needs, send them to vocational training and training, as well as to inter-communication movement. I would point out that it is necessary to distinguish temporary work abroad from the official route, provided that staying abroad does not go 30 days in continuity or 90 days in the course of the calendar year, as well as in the event of the sending of diplomatic and consular representatives where this law is not applied. For the state of employment abroad, an annex contract is needed, unless the working contract provides for it, because without prior written consent, the worker cannot be referred to work abroad. This law will benefit small and medium-sized enterprises, as our businesses will become competitive on the modern and foreign market in line with international standards by precise conditions and business procedures. We Socialists believe that the aim of this law will be achieved, which is to accelerate legal employment abroad, and also to control and transparent administration, that employees will be fully protected and that they will be promised, secure, secure social, health and pension and receive regular contracted earnings. So in the voting day, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36328	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Mirjana Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36329	Dear Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with Associates, today we are discussing three very similar laws in this high house. After an exhaustive presentation of the minister, as well as my fellow MPs, especially from representatives of the parliamentary groups, I will give only one brief review of the viewers, who closely follow the assembly events, to the law on amendments and additions to the Health Safety Act at Work. This is a roof law in the field of health security at work, and it was adopted in 2005. Why is there a change? The most important thing is that this law has continued to be brought into line, that is, for years to come in line with EU rules. So far, more than 35 regulations have been submitted in this area, as well as the fact that certain shortcomings in the application of this law have been in practice due to a long period of time in which it has not changed, especially when it concerns specific military and police activities. Investment in safety at work is not a cost, as you said, Mr. Minister, because this investment keeps what's most important, and that's the health and life of employees. This law also educates the Agency for Safety and Health at Work, as an authority of the administration in the framework of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. The director of this administration, who is also present today as your associate, Mrs Vera Christmas Trefalt, said in one of the interviews that she said that in order to eliminate stress, which is followed by almost every job, there is a big part of the conversation between the employer and the employee, and that there is also a need to introduce a number of types of sports and other forms of recreation at work to reduce this stress. Speaking of stress, one of the agencies dealing with this problem, Jobs Ritade, has set as the most stressful profession a fireman's profession for 2015. She's on a scale of one to what she got 71 points. Second place is the active military service with an estimate of 70.78, while third place is another military occupation of the general. The first five stressful professions include a pilot and a policeman, which is very logical, but the general surprise in the sixth place is the actor's profession with 50.33%. It may be a surprise for the Western economies, but ours I don't think it is, because the audiences of actors in our country are extremely small, and the number of films and the series are almost negligible. If I were to make this list, I'd put in first those workers and employees who expect to lose their jobs every day and go to work. I hope there's not a lot of them. The Act on Health at Work does not refer to the provision of specific military services in Serbia and the provision of police and protection and rescue services. The law further defines the term “employee” and as far as the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are also in the developed Western economies of the backbones of economic growth and development, says Article 16. "Employers who have less than 20 employees in work: retail trade, housing and food services, information and so on, health security services at work can perform themselves and are not obliged to pass professional exams from this area." The legislator's understanding, in my opinion, comes from the fact that, according to the 2013 data, there were 93,754 companies in Serbia, with as many as 81,444 micro-enterprises or 87,2%, and 9,353, and 10% small enterprises, respectively. Large businesses have only about 3%, which means that the gravity of this law must certainly focus on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In activities where serious and fatal injuries occur most often, construction, agriculture, mining, processing industry, etc., the employer is obliged to designate a person with at least completed higher education for health care activities for at least four years. The idea of the legislator is good, but it will not be enough unless both employers and employees are joint to raise the level of protection at work. Provisions of Articles 18 and 19 The bill states that the person in charge of safety and health at work must continuously perfect knowledge from these areas through a knowledge training programme brought by the minister responsible for work. The law also tightened the conditions for obtaining a licence for performing health security tasks at work, and established the period under which the licence applies, which is five years, as well as the conditions under which it is renewed. On purpose, I didn't say anything about the criminal provisions of the law, although I fully support them and as to the conditions under which the penalties are imposed, as well as their heights. If there is a gap between normative and real, or between theory and practice, the law will lose its meaning. The point is to change minds and employers and workers, as well as people who are determined to deal with safety and health at work. The employer should not be the goal of obtaining a licence, and the worker shall have a superficial knowledge of the rules relating to safety and health at work, but of really investing in the core of the problem, because everything he has learned and applied in practice will contribute, on the one hand, a reduction in the number of injuries to professional illnesses and deaths at work, and on the other hand, a reduction in the costs of business, treatment, the number of hours lost, damages and the like. Because of all these laws, I will vote in favour of, which will be done by my colleagues from the SNS, but I also believe that coalition partners, colleagues from the opposition, will give their historic yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36330	The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36331	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the government, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, are present today ahead of us, in addition to the convention's interpretation decisions, two draft laws governing two serious areas. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Safety and Health Act is very important to regulate, as precisely as possible, and for better application on the ground. Looking at who was all involved in making this document, I'm sure maximum efforts have been made to make a quality bill. The bill on conditions for sending temporary work abroad and their protection is a law governing the area in which our workers, working abroad on various jobs, faced various problems. It's important that anyone who wants to work to provide employment either in or out of the country. That way, the economy is recovering as well. That's how you get out of a crisis. When such a possibility is given for such employment, their basic labour rights must be protected. The working status of our employees abroad is unstable. It is necessary that employees feel secure and that their working status is defined, because it will certainly affect the quality of the work provided. We believe that this bill will also affect the reduction of the grey labour market. In that gray market, our workers were viewed only as slaves, so they were treated as such, causing a series of unpleasant and naturally catastrophic situations. We are glad that this area will finally be more orderly and that those who have exploited such situations will suffer legal consequences. However, speaking of the solutions given in this bill, I believe that the period of reference of a member of temporary work should be extended to a period of more than 12 months, as there are projects that last longer than that deadline. We think this law will allow better records of employees outside our country. We also think that other sublaws need to be monitored and controlled by the application of this law. The Serbian People's Party welcomes the idea of adopting this law, as well as any idea that increases the employment of our citizens, as well as a set of all laws that improve the legal order of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36332	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36333	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable fellow MPs, honorary ministers, distinguished guests, indeed when we talk about security and when we talk about workers, this is the topic that we in the SDP love most. These are issues that we do significantly ideologically, because taking care of a worker really is our basic motivation and investment practically in workers is the basis. We think it's a prerequisite for this country's development. There's an extremely good set of laws in front of us today. The first law dealing with the safety of workers and their health fits into the security strategy that we have prepared, which covers the period from 2013 to 2017, and the main objective and thanks to God and thanks to the work of this ministry and the minister himself, we are going in that direction, and our aim is to reduce 5% of the labour injuries that occur in relation to the records we have from the expert commissions. I must commend that the work of these committees is also what the minister pointed out, was intense in the past period and shows indeed one will to prevent and reduce the number of injuries to work, which is extremely important for this society both for your Ministry and for all of us. It is very important and the core of this first law is what we have seen, to practically raise the level of knowledge and the level of skills that people have to deal with protection at work. This is crucial and this is extremely well solved and what the Honorable Minister said in the opening work, which is that sanctioning will be introduced, but I must say that this law introduces the institution of rewards and public recognitions. So, in methodology, the most important two things are punishment, rewards. We have in this law and it's something that's really innovative, which is new and that's going to be very good at this law. I would like to commend the work of the Security Authority that Mrs. Vera Christmas Trefalt has done for a very long time, it is practically the work and the very authority that I see here in Article 60, which we are adopting is the core of the task and of what this law insists on. One of these points says that this administration is preparing a methodology for performing operations, examinations of investigations, etc., etc. The most important element of this law, I believe, is the alignment of this administration that has worked well so far. I thank you for that, and of course, you take this as a support on that path, because what this law and this administration is about workers, above all vulnerabilities, about young people, about old people, about pregnant women, about nursing women, has to be in a special place, and that's what this ministry is doing very well, and we're really happy with that. The law is very good. We of the SDP will certainly support him. You could talk about any point, we've heard a lot of nice words about this law, because it's really good quality. You know, I'm a doctor of medicine. There's a phenomenon in physiology called the Axon phenomenon, it's when a man swallows something sharp, the organism finds a way to get that blunt part of him out of the welding system, thus reducing the possibility of injury. I just believe that this is the kind of law that we and in society do and we do it the right way, that if an injury happens, and the injury will be, that they will be as little as possible, that we approach it the right way, because now you see here, the employer will have to report something that happened within 24 hours, which is of paramount importance. It's a crucial thing. Not to go into small details, once again commending the law, we will stop and vote for it. For me, it is an extremely important law, since I come from Novi Pazar, from Sandzak, I believe for other parts of this country and the interior, is a law, or a bill on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and on their protection. It is a really good and really good proposal for this law to cover and to cover the whole of the legislation practically this group of people, because I have to stress that my whole end depends practically on those people working abroad temporarily. It's a number of companies, and it's extremely good that this law regulates, it's good communication and information for these people. I believe that by adopting this law, these people will have better information, where they go to work, what they do, how they are protected and how they are and what their practical rights are and what their obligations are. That's a really good suggestion. We'll also stand behind it and I'm extremely glad that these are today's draft laws for discussion. Once again, thank you and will support the Social Democratic Party of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36334	Thank you, Mr. Bacevac. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as we have heard from the debate already, from the agenda, today we have a set of three draft laws. The first draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Safety and Health at Work, and we have heard that the reasons for the adoption of this law are numerous, above all, that the current law was passed in 2005, since many circumstances changed, the practice has also shown some shortcomings and needs for change. Specific problems in the application of the Labour Safety and Health Act were identified in specific activities of the military and police, so it was necessary to regulate it in a new way and a number of other issues listed in the reasoning that we received with the bill. I think we've all read the bill and the reasoning, so I'm not going to say what it says. We agree that the 2005 Law was to be innovated and brought into line with the current needs. We don't think it's done in a studio enough and comprehensive way, and you haven't really convinced us of that with your explanation. Our MP group, Boris Tadic, the Social Democratic Party, has submitted amendments to which we want, of course, in the citizens' interest to have a constructive impact on the quality of the text of the law. We hope that you will consider the amendments well and that you will have understanding and understanding of what we wanted and that you will accept. Even if the law is best not to ensure full application, there is no effect. That's why, Mr. Minister, you have to take all necessary measures to make sure that when the law is passed and applied and that it is permanently applied, that it doesn't happen like with the Labour Act, which is also from your jurisdiction. Yesterday, a statement by the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia and the Independent Unions asked the Ministry of Labour and the Inspectorate to urgently resolve the problem of unpaid salaries was published in Dnevnik. They also pointed out that employees are not being provided with profit and profit fees, so-called "supervisory" accounts. payroll, which violates the Labour Act. They have indicated that it has become a mass phenomenon that employers who do not pay their wages do not pay even their payroll, so that employees have an even greater problem in achieving their rights on paper guaranteed and the court charges for the claim arising from the employment relationship. They also found that the courts are now working slower and that they are not in a hurry to settle labour requirements immediately, although it is known that labour dispute is urgent. Jacques, even when they have complete documentation, your disputes go on for a long time. They listed a list of 10 companies that don't give billing tickets to their workers, six of which are public utility companies, and I think you'd have to take care of that, too, and that the government takes the measures it has as an authority over these companies. Employers who do not comply with the legal obligation to regularly pay the checklist workers a fine of up to two million dinars. We advocate that in the application of the law, which is now on the agenda when it is adopted, as well as in the application of the Labour Act and all others in your jurisdiction, inspections are more engaged and act primarily preventively, and only then, repressively, because there is often an account between payment of penalties and enforcement of obligations. It is a problem, although the billing list has the power of the executive document in court, that the worker submits the billing list to the court. It's happening more and more, but it's still in crisis now that many people are out of work each worker asks if they should start slow in front of the court, because they need to keep working with that employer and of course they're afraid for their jobs. So I'm saying, I've cited this as an example, it's important that the law that's being passed be applied, to ensure its continued application. The second is the draft law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. Mr. Minister, you're saying that the Law on the Protection of Citizens of the SRJ on Foreign Work, which was not good in 1998, was too complicated to apply, confused and therefore not applied. Well, in 1998, the government was running an option that you belonged to. All I'm saying is that we know who passed such a law and we don't make the same mistake again. In addition, the ruling majority who has been leading Serbia for more than three years has had enough time and opportunities to deal with this matter earlier and to pass this law earlier, but it is obvious that the government and ministers are more concerned with the elections, the reconstruction of the government, the elections and so on. What needs to be one of the basic actions of the executive authority, which is to propose laws and regulations and control of the application of them is not in the focus of interest at the moment, but is intervened when a deadline expires, when certain conditions cannot be met, when a tragedy occurs, such as the tragedy in Russia with our workers was a cause for the adoption of this law, when a elemental disaster occurs, and even when provisions are to be aligned according to some excellence, and we had it on the agenda. But it's better than never. It is good that this law has now been passed and that this matter is regulated in a new way. The government should take care of all citizens and those who are posted for temporary work abroad, so that they are not left there alone. There's already been a lot of talk about the content of the law itself and what you want to achieve with it. Our MP group has also submitted several amendments to this text of the law and we will discuss them when there is a debate on the agenda in particular. The third is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Jurisdiction of the Law, Recognition and Implementation of Decisions and Cooperation in the Matter of Parent Responsibility and Measures for the Protection of Children. The convention was adopted in 1996 under the auspices of the Hague Convention on International Private Law. She took effect in 2002. I have to admit, we weren't in a hurry to ratify it, but we're not even the last of the EU members. Italy hasn't ratified it yet. A total of 41 countries joined this Convention. Of which, 27 EU members. Since we are seeking to join the other members and the EU, and since we are pursuing those quality of life measures that are in force in developed countries, it is good that we have finally received ratification of this Convention on the agenda. We are all aware of how important it is for the development of children to develop and protect family relationships, relations between children and parents, guardians, foster parents. We are aware, especially of those who are dealing with the law, how much trouble there is when problems arise in the family, when a divorce of parents comes to the trust of children, to decide who will take care of them, who will support them, and it is even more complicated if there is a foreign element, if one of the parents is a foreign citizen. As a lawyer, I've actually had cases like this, and I know we've been powerless very often, so I really support the ratification of this convention. The Convention regulates the issue of parental responsibility, which involves not only parental powers and responsibilities but also custody, foster care and other similar institutions, as well as representation of children in cross-border situations. The convention regulates the matter of parental responsibility and other measures to protect children, combining two methods, the method of uniformity and methods of co-operation, which I also think is very good. The main objectives of the convention have been set and I will not list them. They are both in the convention itself and in an explanation quite detailedly given. I'm just going to mention what is to be mentioned as the new terms that we need to adopt and we're going to apply expires, these are the criteria of the usual child's residence, now taken as a criterion for determining the authority of the decision-making authority. Then, the criteria for organ work – the best interest of the child, which is most important, but it is important to apply it in practice and application. The Convention obliges Contracting States to designate central authorities to cooperate with each other in order to protect children effectively. I think it's important to know who he is and from which country he is competent to cooperate with each other in resolving these issues. Serbia has so far ratified the Hague Convention on the Civil aspects of international child abduction, the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the field of international adoption and the Hague Protocol on the Determination of the Methodical Law on Maintenance Obligations, but I think this Convention is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36336	Mrs. Koraq, your task force has no more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36337	Okay, but let me just finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36338	Here you go. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36339	So, I think this convention is of great importance and our parliamentary group will support it unconditionally.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36340	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic, and let the MP Zoran Zivkovic be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Damnjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36341	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Ministers with Associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we have very good bill proposals and I will focus in my presentation on the proposal for a law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection, which I consider to be a very important law for all. It affects the essence of both employers and employees. The aim of this law is to speed up employment abroad and enable employers to employ people abroad in a simplified procedure, but also to protect these employees fully and get what they are promised, i.e. no one cheats on them, to have health security at work, social and pension insurance and to receive profits. We are witnessing that workers have been referred to work abroad by suspected agencies, without any papers, and have not received any fees for their work, and have been returned to the country by checking the inspection services abroad because they did not have work permits. Under this law, any employer who directs temporary workers abroad will be obliged to inform the Ministry of Labour about how many employees work abroad, where they work and what rights they have given them. This law will allow those employers who direct their employees to work abroad to do so in accordance with the law, or pay high penalties otherwise. In this law, we also fight against black work in Serbia. The objectives achieved by the adoption of this law are: the unification of legal matter, internal and external harmonisation of legislation, the modern legislative solutions adapted to modern, market, economic, financial, legal, constitutional and socio-political order and system, the establishment of a new legal concept in the process of notifying state authorities, supervision and co-operation for pre-warning and correcting irregularities in the process, the posting of employees to temporary work abroad, and, based on experience from practice, legal recognition and regulation of certain specific forms of posting of employees to temporary work abroad, as well as the introduction of special protection of individual categories of employees. It is important that this law solves the most comprehensive and reliable problems that could not be regulated by the old federal Act on the Protection of Citizens of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in work abroad, or by the Labour Act. In light of the above, in the voting day, I will support this bill, as well as the two other proposals that are now on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36342	I thank you, Mrs. Tomašević Damnjanović. The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic has the word, and let the MP Marijan Rističević be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36343	It's very good when some part of life in one country is codified through law and that's, of course, one of the characteristics of a civilized state, but law-making is just the beginning of a process. A much more important part of the process is the application of that same law. We have a joint discussion here on three laws, and one concerning a convention that is undeniable and that should have been verified before, and there is no doubt about it. These two laws are a good try, but only a good attempt to edit these two areas. I am very sorry that we have 2015, in the year when all the representatives of the authorities are talking about how good it is for us to be simply ashamed, that employment is shining, that the standard is rising, that we are a state without any features of recession, that we cannot defend ourselves against foreign investors and domestics, that we are now passing labour law, the posting of employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. Especially at a time when it's obvious that very little of our companies are doing anything abroad. On the contrary, they can't even get a job in their own state of Serbia. So it's a good try, but it's a little out of line with the time we're in. When it comes to protecting people who are sent to work abroad, it's not abroad, it's Russia, especially Russia, especially us far away, but friendly countries whose friendship we can't interpret for decades or centuries. It doesn't happen in civilized countries. The basic law, i.e. the first law in this set, is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Safety and Health at Work. That's where we heard an interesting piece of information, that 40% of the victims, whether they didn't give God mortally, or with injuries, were in those who worked on black. Well, that's not an argument. The argument is that 60% of those who suffer are those who work on white or formal. That's terrible. Of course, this other fact about working on black is scary, but don’t justify that there is work on black and that’s why there are many injured and those who have died in their work. It's your ministry's job, that there are no black people, not fair ones. There's a large number of injured people working on black. The question is, who was responsible for the death of two workers seven or eight days ago, or 15 days ago, I don't know exactly, who died working on the track? The track can hardly be private, it can hardly be tycoon, it can hardly be the former regime, it can hardly be anything, but the track is absolutely public good. How is it possible that people who work in black are working on the railroad? Which Director, Chief, Minister, Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, Mr God or Prime Minister has resigned because of what happened? Of course, no one. At the same time, I'd like the minister, or someone who knows, to explain how we think we're increasing the safety of people who work, if we're throwing money at some national stadium? It will probably be a Serbian stadium or a Serbian stadium. How do we explain to people who go to work every day without minimum protective equipment, without any means of protection? That's a very important question. Finally, health checks, systematic checks, regular, too bad it wasn't introduced into these amendments of the law and started to apply from the top, to start being applied from the Serbian government, and then going down the deep, because, of course, the most important thing in the world is to be protected by people who work...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36344	Mr. Zivkovic, I'm asking you to talk about the subject, not to insult someone who can't defend himself in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36345	Who am I insulting, I'm sorry? I'm talking about the fact that systematic checks should be a good custom in this country and, of course, apply to verticals, from top to bottom. That would help those up there, but a lot more... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36346	I thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Time's up. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's unreasonablely difficult to prove that he's unreasonable. If he could do that, he wouldn't even be unreasonable. As for my previous colleague, the farmer, I will support him for his work on black. I'll be very supportive of him. Right now, I'm asking the Ministry of Labour and other ministries to provide me with information on how the vineyard was planted on the Mount of France. What labor force planted that? Were they reported? Were the contributions paid? Did they get paid PIO? Did that happen during the planting? Did it happen during maintenance or did it happen for the harvest? I want the ministry to deliver it to me, and is this company that received 525,000 euros from the state to plant a vineyard in Fruszko Gora, to plant it in the spring of 2007 on land it purchased on 7 November 2007, so I ask the Ministry to prove to me that in the spring of 2007 the workers planted the vine on the land that was created in November 2007? I'm looking for accurate information on whether anyone was possibly injured at work, was he taken care of, in any way, whether or not he cut himself with vineyard scissors, etc.? As for the national stadium, I heard a statement from my farmer that Stalin had a national stadium. It's not true, he didn't have it, but it's what Romania and Poland have, but they don't have that kind of wine so far from 52 ha of the former prime minister. For this money they built modern national stadiums that have facilities, which are not only sporting but also other content that brings new jobs. By the way, Stalin didn't have a concentration camp at the national stadium, but I do know the former prime minister who arrested 12,000 people in 2003, of those 12,000 people was processed barely 1,000 and out of 1,000,9100 and something was released. So, with those 12,000 people could be filled up by an increased international stadium, so if he's already objecting to those national stadiums, if he's already objecting to some diagnosis, if he's not already allowed a TV duel at my place, so he's escaped, if he's not already allowed to do a polygraph with me, if he's already wanted to point out his military career and talk about diagnosis, I'm offering to cross military books. So let's see who was free to serve the state and who was free to serve the state. Last time he wanted to, someone remembered, said we were mice, that we were stuck during aggression, etc. While he was wearing a uniform, let's see if anyone who's already talking about diagnosis is the last one to talk is my fellow farmer. Thanks to this false diagnosis, he was released from military service. Since he objected to me, Mr. Chairman last time that I didn't have a chance to speak, you can record all the stamps on the military book about all the military deadlines that lasted 15 months and military exercises and military schedules, etc. I'm offering to cross the military book. I agree with their advocate for labour rights, I completely agree. I'll support him in that part, just to find, a dead worker here and there, fell a worker from the building, into the "Tiger" killed three workers, it's just headlines, some of the headlines in the press. I agree that workers' rights are maximum, but I don't see a tycoon friend of theirs killed anywhere. Maybe in the Maldives, on a yacht he tripped about a singer, fell on lobster pliers, I can't know, but it wasn't in the press. So, I agree when someone advocates labour rights, because I first advocated them, I was an IMT worker and then Belgrade had 230,000 workers in production. When I came to this Assembly in 2012, Belgrade had 20,000 workers in production, or 10 times less, even though it had 50% more population than it was in the 1980s. If someone advocates labour rights, they should also say that workers' rights have been taken away by someone who has become rich in wild, predatory privatisation. I agree with all labour rights, but it should be done by people who have not been involved in the establishment of a wild capitalism that has never been seen before. So if they were destroying jobs, they were destroying hundreds of thousands of jobs, they shouldn't be doing it. Speaking of vineyards, I ask the Minister of Labour to write this down, that the seasonal labour force is prescribed by some regulation, that employers, agricultural owners, buy stickers that will be at the cost of at least social and health workers taking care that in the event of any injury at work, they can be taken care of because they are the labor force that goes to the price, they are very exposed to the sun, wind, rain, sometimes cold, and it would be a good way to protect them from burdening farmers in this way because they are on very low levels of economic and social survival. The whole processing industry is gone. The agricultural combinations are gone. A huge number of jobs have disappeared, and now someone who is most responsible for the collapse of the working class, for the unemployed wandering in suburbs, because wages and pensions are no longer available, have no support in production to be larger. Now someone who lived off the task force and owed the state a debt to the remaining number of workers, someone who threw out 400,000 workers on the income side and transferred them to the expenditure side and brought them to the opportunity to get their wounds, mental wounds, because they were out of work in the 1950s, and they were deep and easily healed. Those should know that they brought the state to a state that was on Mars, there were conditions for life in Serbia but there was no life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36348	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36349	Thank you. We're actually listening to some of our predecessors, especially those of the former regime, and we could listen to a car projection. Who told the government it's beautiful here, everything's great. Who said we're very pleased with everything that's going on. Who said? Nobody. We're telling the truth, but the truth is that 25% of unemployment is much more than 17.9%. Is that good enough? No, but is it better than 25%? Yes, it is. Is it better when we have a smaller deficit or when we have a deficit left by the former regime three years ago when we took responsibility for this country? Well, it's better. Is it good enough? No, it's not. We'll be happy when we don't have to borrow any single dinars when we don't have to repay the loans from previous prime ministers they've taken with interest rates of 16%. Well, the drugs that you sell can't pay that kind of interest. You can't return such interest to sell weapons, and they took such interest to buy elections, to raise salaries and pensions that they couldn't serve. Well, who's here in this country, who's by this government, these majority say we're very happy and satisfied because now we're going to pay off military pensioners all of what the former regime has done as a debt. That's hundreds of millions, but we're gonna pay them back, we're not the irresponsible majority who pushed it under the carpet, who's been letting debt be made for years. We're not happy, but we're proud to have the money to pay it back, not to raise the credit to pay back the debts of those who were before us, so we can pass the debts on to our children. Here we listened to the auto projection all the time, the way it used to run Serbia, the arguments that used to be ruled. Should I remind all of us here in this House and all those who are watching us now who was saying that the crisis is our development chance? Who was saying that we would do great in the global economic crisis and that we would open up 200,000 new jobs with only one election. After 400,000 layoffs immediately after that election, but what matters is that we won and came to power, so let's take out a loan, let's get in charge of raising wages and pensions, to win in one piece of time and nothing more. We've been listening to the car projections here, and we haven't heard anything about the laws. It's just that there's nothing to look back on. I thought it was hatred of states, nations, that it was the past, that no one would ever speak and do it again. What's the matter with Russia? What's so terrible about Russia? What's so bad? I know there was a very anti-Russian attitude towards that Russia at the time of the government of the former regime, and now I'm listening again. Why? Why can't you accept the East and the West, and then when they came into the state of the opposition they started to hate the Arabs. You remember what was said in this House about the Arabs, about their capital, about that terrible people. You remember what was said they were coming to rob us, and today we had a chance to hear about the American Chamber of Commerce in that series of liars. I wonder who's next. Who will now be on that list, on that list, what we will hear about the speaker of this House, who will be offended by the space of the most important and honorable place in our country, the National Assembly. No one can rejoice when they hear something like this about Russia or when they hear something like this about the Arabs or when they hear something like this about America. No, we're not that country, we respect the East and the West. I'm sorry we're talking about all this, we were supposed to talk about the law, but you have no reason to talk about the law, when no one even mentioned the law. Eventually someone referred to the law, possibly someone referred to the Labour Act. When we talked about, here's how someone can work, it's absolutely something for me that we have to fight, that someone works in public work, through some kind of tender procedure, that's not reported properly. I would like to tell you that my ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have made a recommendation on the Ministry of Labour initiative, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted that recommendation and passed it on to all public enterprises, all local self-governments, that anyone who employs public money, state money, any company that does not respect the provisions of the Labour Act, a company that has not registered workers will be held responsible for what he did, as if directly responsible. Of course we'll fight it. You know, compared to some previous time, here I'll repeat, it's never bad to repeat especially when you're not listening, we'll repeat that last year's labour inspection had 16.5% more checks, that's 39,609 reviews. Compared to 2013 29%, it would be interesting, I didn't get ready, but I'll bring it up when we talk about the amendments for as many as 2000, 2001, 2003, to see how much progress we've made in the meantime, what we've done in the meantime. In the first nine months of 2015, we found the work inspection as an undeclared 10.901 person, 6,183 persons were immediately reported on the basis of a solution in the labour inspection, which is a significant increase even compared to 2014. In August and September, I mean by inspecting the work, we discovered 186 legal entities that were not actually legal entities, which had not been reported at all, who were working, who were hiring something, which of course denied VAT, tax and protection at work, and that certainly changed. The Labour Act is being criticised, but to repeat, 5,790 billing lists have been received, 4.495 is finished, 158 million dinars have been charged. That's progress. And I'm going to remind those who are now criticizing this measure, that when they passed the law they were saying all the worst and to this extent, but you can see that it has an effect, you see that it has purpose. Let me just tell you that based on the misdemeanor procedures initiated by the labour inspection, the budget has been charged to 200,103,000 dinars. Two hundred million dinars. It is not for anyone to be denied his right, but only for those who have not strictly obeyed the law, who have not taken care of what is his obligation. So these are the results, and these are the figures. I'm sorry again, because we don't talk about laws, they're good laws, they're high-quality laws, they're really fundamentally changed, and we show them what we said a year ago and more that we're going to change all the working legislation, that we're going to round the whole of labour legislation. Unfortunately, this is more about politics than about expertise, and these are the laws. As for systematic examinations, mandatory systematic examinations, unfortunately, seems to be the subject of a joke here, but systematic examinations are foreseen for all professions that are considered highly risky and they are mandatory and they are done by law, and I'm sorry that you don't know that either, so here they mock it and they'll make a joke or something like that. I am sorry that we have not talked more about the laws, I am sorry that we have heard here that certain countries and peoples are classified as ugly and hostile, and I am sorry that such professional laws become a reason to speak such hard words at the pay phone of our Parliament, but I am really glad that we are passing laws that are very difficult from our professional point of view to criticise them and from the professional point of view it is very difficult to dispute the quality and value of the laws that we are making, because as you can see, the laws that have been very contested and more than these, are now being shown as effective and in application they prove to be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36350	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. To whose presentation, Mr. Zivkovic, are you looking for a word? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: At the Minister's presentation. ) The minister addressed Mr. Risticevic and mentioned the former regime, and I did not, if you have recognized yourself, I cannot, based on the Minister's statement to give you a replica, because he did not mention you in any sentence, and if you have recognized yourself, I can't do anything. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: If not, fine. ) The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36351	I thank the esteemed chairman and respected ministers with associates, dear fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following our work today, and I will focus my exposure primarily on the proposal for a safety and health law at work, but I will certainly support the other two draft laws, which is the bill on the conditions for our employees to go abroad and to protect them, but today we are also talking about the Convention, which first applies to the matter of parental responsibility. I would like to point out here that a very important principle is respected, which is the principle of child's best interest. The amendments to the safety and health laws alone bring a lot of newspapers. The aim of these changes and the addition of a very important law is to improve this area, and on the other hand to reduce the number of labour injuries and occupational illnesses. The reasons for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Labour Safety and Health Act are that the existing November 2005 law has had certain shortcomings, which in any case lead to disturbances in operation in this area. I must say, with the very strategy for the safety and health of our employees, which is valid for the period from 2013 to 2017, we have one stated goal of reducing labour injuries by 5%. I'm sure that goal will come true. Otherwise, the draft of this law was done by the Working Group appointed by the Minister's solution, that we had a public debate, where all interested entities could show their suggestions, objections and probably better solutions. We have heard a lot of arguments in the debate so far, above all from the Minister, but also from fellow Members of Parliament, who speak in favour of the adoption of these amendments to the law. I would point only to some of the amendments and newspapers of these laws. First of all, what is going on is the alignment and precision of appropriate terminology. These are terms and terms such as – employer, and I will not repeat myself, enough is said in what change is, then a very important term, which is prevention. I must say, one language is introduced that is understood by everyone who is employed. Let's start with prevention, because I think it's the most important and economic aspect, but also from that human aspect, because it's economically justified to invest much more in prevention, so that there's no injury to work and professional illnesses, because from the funds invested to preventive measures, it's going to be good for both employers and employees, and I'd tell this whole society in general. The provisions of this law do not apply to any action, it is a military service in the Serbian Army, it is a police act, but these are very important jobs related to rescue and protection. Many times we have mentioned a newspaper that is equally important that in some actions that are less risky and where we have up to 20 employees, in such actions the employer himself can do these jobs and not have a professional exam. On the other hand, among those other high-risk activities, much greater competences are required and one constant, continuous improvement is sought, and not a sibling, but rather a suitable program for professional training, and what is very important is that there will be a plan for periodic checks on these skills in the field of safety and health at work. What as a woman, as a national MP today, I would especially like to point out, and what is very important to me, is Article 3. is a new position in Article 3. which refers to special measures of health in the work of our young women who are pregnant women and women who are breast-feeding children. In this same article, Article 3, we have a change of termology, instead of the term 'invalid', the term 'inadequate persons' is used, and I would especially like to commend this, and I think that there will be no more abuses, of course they cannot be 100% eradicated, but at least they will be brought to some extent. As a longtime educator, I am pleased that in these amendments of the law, the provision that will take place in the application of this law is an increase in public awareness. In order to change any consciousness, we must start from the earliest age, by education, and of course there is a great role and Ministry of Education, because these contents must be entered from the earliest age in primary and secondary school education and education, we must certainly not forget that. I think because of the exceptional importance of this area that it should be spoken of not only on these days when we pass laws, or on April 28th when it is the world's day of security and health, but every day precisely because we will all agree that health is the greatest resource we have, that health is the greatest wealth we have. I am sure that the amendments and additions of this law will improve the area of security and health, and will affect the reduction of labour injuries and occupational illnesses. Dear Ministers with Associates, I wish you success in your work. Finally, I would like to say that in the voting day, together with my fellow SNS MPs, I will vote in favour of all the three laws we are discussing today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36352	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36353	The part you just pointed out about breast-feeding, you see that's proof that it's organized and that it's done by thinking a little ahead. The labour law is the one that predicted breast-feeding protection, as a special category, which was not the case until then. Now under this roof law, in all laws that process matter that can apply to breastfeeding, it will be represented and protected. That's how the system works. I came forward for one more thing, because I owe Mr. Risticevic the answer, the Law on Law regulation and the obligations of seasonal workers has begun to prepare, and I expect that I will have the honor to be here in this Assembly at the beginning of next year and to defend to you this very important law, and something that has not been part of our legal system so far, and which will really be of great importance, not only for seasonal workers in agriculture, but for seasonal workers as such, to protect them, to pay them taxes, to pay them pension, social, to make them equal for that time while you work to be equal to any other worker, but that the farmer is not obliged to have an entire bureaucracy, that he does not have to have a maltene legal office behind him to do something, but that in a very simple way he can also be good to the state, and to be a good worker and to himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36354	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by MP Alexander Peranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36355	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are ahead of us with three important draft laws, which I will refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Safety and Health Act at Work. My colleagues in today's debate talked a lot about it, and I don't want to take up a lot of time, but I want to put it in a few words to point out something that I think is very important, very important. The essence of every law is that it is applied as it should and as it stands. I believe that this law that we are discussing today is based on that roof law, as the minister said, the Labour Act, and that is something that is very important for the whole country and shows that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we all want one improvement, one progress. The SNS authorised representative, Dr. Rakonjac, said that using protective means is something to be applied, but we in the Republic of Serbia need to change our consciousness, the law to respect everyone, wear and gloves, a nurse when drawing blood, and construction workers, and also without discussion, a surgeon in the O.R. has to extort surgical handwashing and wear surgical gloves. These are things that are very important. This law will succeed the moment everyone applies it. The inspection is something that's supposed to exist, but we don't have to feel alone about the inspection being there to control it, it's supposed to control it, but it's not supposed to be the basic part. So every employer here clearly says he has to report everything. The employer is the one who has to create conditions to apply this law, and the worker is the one to enforce it. If we say wearing a safety helmet is on a construction site, it has to. The minister said that in the last, I don't know how many years, 40% of the deaths of black workers. That's the problem. I'm convinced that in one order, by introducing the system into all the pores that we're going to have workers who are registered, where we're not going to have these black workers, where these things aren't going to happen, that's exactly the law. I don't want to talk about other things, but as a doctor, I mean that prevention is the best thing. As a consequence, we want the consequences to be positive by using and applying this law, not negative, we say those 40% fatal outcomes. It's my profession and my some Hippocratic oath, that preventive measures or prevention is something that's best. The great thing is, that's what colleagues said, that prevention, that is, of pregnant women and mothers who breast-feed, is that, in one word, I see that this law and all the previous and complete functioning we are entering into one system, that is, the order of the states that are arranged. It is up to all of us on workers and employers and on the Ministry to apply such quality, clear and real laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36356	I thank Dr. Peranovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36357	Dear Chairman, Mr Marinkovicu, honourable members of the government and the Ministry of Labour and Employment, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will talk about the proposal for a law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. The need to adopt a law on conditions for sending temporary staff to work abroad, while also caring for their protection, stemmed from the lack of regulation of the previous law dating back to 1998 and related to the arrangement of conditions for employment abroad of the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Insufficient legal accuracy in the records of workers sent to other countries creates the wrong picture of employee records and opens the possibility of many speculative actions and malfeasances directly affecting the reduced amount of cash deposits in the PIO fund as well as the difficult position of workers, both on their regular and accurate monthly payments, and on the right to uninterrupted health insurance, as well as on treatment due to injuries to work that are not so rare. We are witnessing very frequent, painful and unwanted situations that have been encountered by our workers abroad, especially construction professions that have, out of the inability of employment in their country, the difficult material situations and the need to provide themselves and their family with such existence, the very easy way to get across the border, mainly in the cities of Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, as well as Western Europe, without setting up any conditions to protect themselves, and all in the desire to achieve as much desired employment and sweet promises of high earnings as possible. The report and confession of the cheated, and the honest and very good masters of the construction profession were often the guest of the front pages of our media. Life in inhumane conditions, left without a travel document and no dinar paid for an honest contracted job, is a danger that has latently threatened them, and also happened, that we are not talking about those who fled the countries 1,000km away from Serbia only to save a naked life. Of course, companies who also respect legal regulations and their employees who refer to temporary work abroad also act in accordance with legal standards, taking into account the timely remuneration of employees, as well as their health care. One reason to pass such a law is to protect such businesses from those who even 15-year-old children who are sent to work in other countries under the auspices of tourist trips. Our country, the Republic of Serbia, is constantly taking steps towards progressive industrial development, so that in future times there will be more and more companies that will need to send workers to other countries based on completed joint investment projects contracts with foreign partners and bring significant foreign exchange inflows, thereby reducing still huge unemployment. The Republic of Serbia is known as the country of economic migrants, especially in Western European countries. Our experts in the field of medicine, hospitality, construction are highly appreciated and recognized worldwide and widely sought and happily seen as people of trust and who are very quickly and easily integrated into the social social structures of the country they are coming to. The law that is before us will introduce precise and accurate records of employees who are posted abroad, suppress the possibility of sending people who have not turned 18, precisely determine the conditions under which a person can be referred to work outside the country and receive adequate health care in the same way. It is assumed that at this point there are more than 20,000 employees abroad on black, engaged on various grounds and on account of phantom companies and companies without any legal basis, on which the state has absolutely no record. By making a transparent publication on the Ministry of Labour and Employment site of each person addressed by a legal entity, we will suppress a large number of such phenomena and enable workers to be legally and socially statused in the country they are going to. Of course, such phenomena will not be used 100%, because criminal policy will bring them down to a minimum, but this law is a very good basis for introducing order in the field of employment and respect for the rights and obligations of workers abroad, as well as their preparation, reception, stay and return to the country. On the basis of everything said, I call on fellow Members of the People to accept this very necessary law in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36358	Thank you, colleague Cvetanovic. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36359	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished guests from the ministry, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are discussing three draft laws, one of which is a convention. In particular, it is the Convention on Jurisdiction, Merit law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and co-operation in the matter of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children. This Convention primarily refers to that part of child protection where there is a very important factor, which is an international element. Since this area is in itself sensitive enough, and especially if we take into account how current it is today, just to see how many children, refugees there are, how many children who are internationally displaced, of course, because of events in their country, which are what they are, or in their countries, which are what they are, and what the number of these children who pass through our country every day and who should be kept for a few days, then I think it is more than clear why this Convention should be supported and why they are good. Otherwise, what is characteristic of this Convention is also that it will allow for the maximum good functioning of other conventions, which the state of Serbia has so far ratified, so that this is another reason why it should be supported and, thank God, it is another mandatory step that the state of Serbia should take on the path of Eurointegration. This would be about the convention. Now a little bit more on the two draft laws. The first is the draft law amending and supplementing the Safety and Health Act. The second is the draft law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. I will focus more on the first draft of the law in my presentation. However, there was enough to talk about both today and today. At least I'll try not to repeat myself in part. I don't know how much I'm gonna make it. But what has drawn particular attention to me in this bill, of course, beyond its basic objective, which was already enough to say, and that is, it is clear that there is a maximum reduction in the number of work injuries, to reduce the number of diseases at work, and above all by acting preventively, because prevention is something that needs to be brought to life in our country and what is the best way to protect human health and to improve human safety at all. When it comes to members, what has particularly attracted my attention is the addition of Article 34, which I consider to be an extremely significant change and any praise for the resolution ministry when this member is concerned, because if he notices that his safety, his health, is in the event of immediate danger, he has the right to stop working, he has the right to leave his post, and now we come to the most important part, that he is not responsible if this is done to the employer. I think this is a great addition. First of all, such a resolute ministry best proves and shows that it takes care of the employee and that his right of employment and his health, his safety in the first place. There was no existing law of this, so, of course, someone could find themselves in a very ungrateful situation, that by saving his life, his health, he came into an absurd situation that he had to bear responsibility for the damage that was done to his employer, so in this respect, it was really all the honor. What I would also point out when this bill is about, about changes and additions, is that there is now a clear distinction and there is a difference between those jobs where there really is a clear and direct danger, a high degree of risk and now there are maximumly tightened measures, which I think is great, when it comes to preserving safety and health, and yet, on the other hand, it separates those jobs where safety is, indeed, there is no high degree of risk, or at all there is, so, accordingly, this law is tailored to these needs, which I think is certainly for great praise. When it comes to tightening some legal measures for these jobs where there is a high degree of risk, I would just like to say that there is now that there are significantly tightened measures that are needed to pass a license exam, so that at all, it can carry out safety and health at work, that this bill now limits the duration of that licence to five years, which I still think is good. Also, what I would particularly like to mention as a commendation, here, my predecessor also talked about, the importance of lifelong learning. Simply, people who have taken this job to work can't say – I've passed the license and that's it now. I can do this job for the rest of my life. Why? Because this is one area that's always alive. There's always something new being explored, and there's always new ways that it can really be very effective to further protect the lives of employees, their health, so I think it's really for every commendation of the person who decides to do this job in a legal obligation, and I underline it, it's very important, that they constantly, constantly, work to perfect their knowledge, their skills, their skills, so that really every praise for it. I would only point out very briefly, since I'm a professor, that once there was in high schools defense and protection, an object, which I consider to be very good, at least in some of its segments, especially considering the floods that have occurred. Simply, not only must experts know what these measures are necessary to know apply in some situations, which can really happen to all of us, so it may be one advice for a good co-operation between this ministry and the Ministry of Education to consider in which area, in which regard it may need to be returned to school, perhaps not to the classical one, but that certainly our students should be instructed what it is that every citizen should know in the event of some elemental accident, in case of how to protect himself at work and so on. Then, what this bill specifically focuses on is, of course, prevention. This is what I would especially like to praise, is that it is working, that everything is done to cause injury, that there is an accident, that there is no accident, which is, of course, impossible to do fully, but I believe that this bill will have a significant impact on them being as little and less. When it comes to prevention, there are now more things that have been done, more steps, that have been made. Among other things, indeed many segments of this law, many legislative provisions refer to the obligations of employers, what they must do, how to give maximum good conditions, in particular, if high-risk jobs... We all know what kind of business these are. If it is a building, chemical industries, processing, especially if it is, of course, handled with various chemical dangerous substances and substances, so that this law is truly detailed, precise, to the point of determining what obligations it is for the employer to make. Otherwise, of course, there is a criminal policy, which is why there is a law to be implemented in practice. What I would especially like to praise is that now, when it comes to prevention, regular controls are required whether everything is carried out in accordance with regulations, mandatory controls of training. What's new and very good is that now these controls are done once a year in jobs, in jobs where there is a special risk and once every four years, in those jobs where it doesn't exist. What I would like to praise, which has been done by the Resort Ministry for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is also important for our economy, is that they have established and given the possibility to the employer that if there are fewer than 20 employees, and if it really is, this is clear and evident, about some benign interest, let's say some offices, whether it's a lawyer, real estate or something like that, or if it's small shops, that it's more than clear that there really is no real risk or at all possible, it's possible to reduce that cost to small and medium-sized enterprises, that they can work, that it helps them to do business, that I'm the employer checks on health at work, and that a professional person doesn't have to have to have a professional examination, which I think is really for any praise. In the end, another member I would like to point out is a member of 51. This member is extremely important because the employer here is now under the obligation that if the accident happens anyway, despite all these preventive measures that have been taken, if there is an accident anyway, if there is a professional illness or if there is an injury at work, that the employer is now under obligation, then there is now that magic word "must," which in the current bill does not exist, now that hole in the existing law is filled, the employer "must" to his employee to give an insight into the report of injury at work, about professional illness, how? So the employees can fulfill all their rights. So that he could use that report and that all legally guaranteed rights could provide for himself. There is another commendation for the ministry, because it shows that it takes care of the employee, or that the employee can exercise his rights, which is the goal of every law. I'd like to point out in the end, unfortunately we're witnessing accidents happening, as well as injuries to work, and these injuries are fatal. It's all what we face every day, so I really think, since the existing law was passed in 2005, if I'm not mistaken, it really was necessary, since a lot has changed over the last 10 years, more than necessary, to make these changes and additions. It's an honor in the act of prevention, but I didn't add that prevention, in addition to that, human health, human injuries can't have a price, but that it's also more rewarding. So there's no compensation, there's no cost of treatment, so it pays the most for employees, therefore for their employers, and of course for the country itself. I think the bill's proposals are really good, they're going to improve a very important part, so they're going to definitely get SNS support in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36360	The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36361	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the ministry, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I will continue my debate concerning, above all, the Convention on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement and co-operation in the field of parental responsibility, as well as the measures of protection taken towards children, primarily for the reasons why this Convention provides for some new terms of jurisdiction, which is the term of "the usual child's residence". I must also point out that in the area of jurisdiction the children of refugees, children are internationally displaced and children without their usual residence. I must stress that the complete government, led by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, but also by other ministries, and especially by the Ministry of Labour and Family Protection, has invested a great deal of effort and great responsibility in accepting refugees from Syria, who have been through the total amount of 170,000 across our territory since January of the month. Among them is a significant number of children. As far as refugee children are concerned, the countries through whose territories they pass the authorities take their regular responsibility. In this regard, the Ministry of Family and Legal Protection, or Minister in July of this year, sent letters to all custody authorities, i.e. social work centres, in which they are informed that, in relation to the children of refugees, who are located in our territory, they are taking steps in accordance with the law and a step-by-step withdrawal has been established and the responsibility of the custody authorities, which in this situation, thanks to the responsibility of the ministry, have great powers and great responsibility when it comes to children without parental escorts, or children without custody. As far as the issue of jurisdiction is concerned, I must stress another formulation of this Convention, and as regards the priority criteria of protection of the child's best interests, which is an agreement between the competent authorities of the two countries to grant jurisdiction to another body if it assesses that this other body in a better and more efficient way can protect the child's interest. These are the bodies, i.e. those in which children have their citizenship, and then those in front of whom the divorce process or child-trust procedure is conducted, then the authorities, or countries whose territory the property of the child is located. What I must also point out, and what this Convention, that is, the protection of children, because the focus of this Convention is in fact the protection of the best interests of children, is the procedure of direct recognition of enforcement. Thus, this process of direct recognition of execution does not require any additional procedure and how a child’s circumstances can be difficult for him who is threatened by any occasion, domestic violence, or otherwise threatened. Also, I need to point out the jurisdiction relating to the co-operation of the central authorities. I have already stated that this co-operation is based on the exchange of laws in force in the countries which are signatories of this Convention, but not only on the flow of information concerning legislation but also on the flow of information concerning the availability of social protection services, i.e. on available child protection services in the territory of the State, as well as on the procedure for assisting in the transfer of jurisdiction, as well as assistance in the mediation, assistance in the possession, assistance in the abduction or illegal detention of the child. Now I would like to point out just one more aspect of the importance of this convention that I have already stated that it has a roof character. And I will compare this aspect of the importance of this Convention with the Convention on Civil Law aspects of International Kidnapping. Namely, this Convention complements the Convention on the Civil Law aspects of child abduction, in so far as this Convention provides that the country of the preceding stay of the child reserves the exclusive right to decide on measures to protect the child and thus prevents the State of the child's refuge from deciding on it regularly and accordingly. So, from the point of view of child abduction and illegal detention, this convention is very important. In 2013, the assembly also ratified an international adoption convention. We know that adoption of a child is based on parenting. This Convention, in relation to this already adopted Convention, is of great importance because this Convention deals with parental childbearing, and adoption is the birthplace of this parenting relationship. As far as the Hague Protocol relating to child support is concerned, this Convention is of great importance again, because we know that in child support procedures, a minor child must have a legal representative, and this Convention is the one that allows it. I would like to say that this convention provides additional protection for the best interests of the child especially in cross-border situations. I would also like to point out just one more newspaper concerning the protection of workers who are referring to temporary work abroad, which is a member of 18, which is also significant, refers to a prior introduction of an employee to work abroad. Why is that significant? It is significant because before the signing of the Annex of the labour contract, which is otherwise delivered to the central social security register and to the competent ministry, the worker must be familiar with all the conditions and make a written statement that he has agreed to do so, of course, unless such possibility is provided for by the labour agreement. Of course, this law stipulates that the work abroad cannot be referred to particularly sensitive categories, which are women pregnant, women of up to three years of age, single parents or persons who have been staying abroad for 11 months and have not been three months since their return home. Also, what's new is that the Ministry of Labour will have all the information. This information will be transparent, available to other state authorities and published on the Ministry's portal. So, the data on the persons sent to work abroad. The Serbian Progressive Party in voting day will support all three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36362	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36363	Thank you. Dear chairman, respected representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy, fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens. I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is the Svrljig Municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the City of Nis, and that whole southeast part of Serbia is very beautiful. I'm going to talk today about the Health Safety Act at work. The Health Safety Act, which was adopted in 2005, was brought into line with EU directives on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in health safety at work, but in the following period, 19 sublaws were passed in order to further comply with EU rules, as well as 11 sublaws concerning the implementation of the law. The need for amending and supplementing the law has arisen because of perceived shortcomings and inaccuracies as there are still discrepancies with other regulations. All of this has been established during these 10 years of law enforcement in practice. Article 1 defines the area of application of this law, when it comes to the military, the police and the protection of rescue, thus aligning the provisions of this law with the EU Directive, the Law on Police and the Emergency Act. It is also important that this law specifies the term of the employer, so that the employer is also considered a natural person who, on any legal basis, engages in jobs, other than hiring for household jobs, as well as for the holders of agricultural land that businesses carry out with members of the household. These amendments also stipulate the employer's obligation to train staff for safe and healthy work under the training programme that it brings and which covers all the jobs for which it sees the degree of danger and harmfulness. This includes all legitimate types of employment of employees. Through practice, there was also a lack of provisions on the time limits of periodic training checks for safe and healthy work. These changes are also prescribed by that deadline, making sure that the employee performs jobs at the workplace, with an increased risk or at a job that is not at increased risk. The application of the law in practice also identified the need to ensure that, in certain activities such as construction, agriculture, forestry, mining, processing industry, electricity production, garages, steam and supply of these energy plants, waste disposal, better training and competence of persons performing a job of safety and health at work, as in these activities more frequently than others, injuries occur at work, and that in these activities there are more jobs which are at increased risk. These changes prescribe the employer's obligation to enable a person who performs safety and health at work to perfect knowledge from this area, as it is seen that there is a great need for these persons to follow new regulations, to follow the experience in this area to meet the complex requirements imposed in order to ensure health and safety of working conditions. In particular, I would stress the importance of a provision that obliges the employer in the area of construction work, that he is obliged to do an elaborate on the construction of the site, which was provided with a report to the competent labour inspector. This defines the works for which the employer is obliged to create the prescribed design design elaborate, and all in order to reduce labour injuries that happen most frequently in this activity according to statistics and according to the report of the Labour Inspectorate. According to these reports, about 83% of all injuries to work reported to the Labour Inspectorate occurred in the above-mentioned activities. The paper is also that the employer's obligation to provide instructions for the use of equipment for work, means and equipment for personal protection for work. The introduction of a provision which, for employers and entrepreneurs with less than 20 employees, does not provide for an obligation to hire a special security professional, but it can carry out a dream without even having passed an expert examination, creates more favourable conditions for the business of small enterprises and entrepreneurs, i.e. these provisions extends a circle of employers who will not have additional costs in business on this basis. The right to special protection is granted by an employed woman during pregnancy and childbirth. A working woman and a father taking care of a child. According to this law, employees under the age of 18 and employees and disabled are entitled to special protection. The labour law prohibits an employee from working overtime if, according to the competent health authority, such work could worsen his health status. Also, employees with health disorders identified by the competent health authority in accordance with the law cannot carry out tasks that would lead to a deterioration of his or her health or his life-threatening affairs. Since I am a representative of the United Peasant Party and selected from the SNS list, I will compare again, as my colleague Marijan Risticevic said earlier, with people who were employed or employed in agricultural combinations, cooperatives, where many of them work and exercise their right to live. With this, I would also call on the competent ministry to help some, and we will view it as an amendment or some subsequent bill, that women who are registered in the agricultural land, who pay pension insurance and social security through agriculture, to provide those people with the same conditions as we just said, are entitled to maternity leave, the right to rest and such things, because I think that people who live in agriculture and work on agriculture have very difficult working conditions. We have a lot of our people who already allocate their funds for agricultural pensions, for agricultural insurance, and I would like to see with you that the next period, if it can't be through amendments or some next draft of the law, we should try to get these people the same conditions as these people who have registered in a working relationship with the employer or elsewhere. I, as before, will always support the set of all these laws because I fully support Minister Vulin, who has the strength and will to do and in everything that someone has never done before, he has done, and normally I would support the government whose head is our Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, because I am sure that this will be a safe future for all of us and for those who live in the country and for those who live from the village.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36364	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Zoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36365	Thank you. Dear chairman, Ministry guests, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens, all three of the laws we are discussing today are of great importance to a significant number of our citizens, above all for the employees. In today's discussion in principle, much has been said. Most of it was positive, which these bill proposals deserve and I'm going to try as little as possible, although it's very difficult because it's really a lot of things being said. Since I'm a specialist in medical work, I'm particularly interested in safety and health at work. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Safety and Health at Work aims to correct the applicable law and better regulate the implementation and improvement of safety and health at work of all those involved in the work process, as well as persons in the working environment. The ultimate goal is to prevent tragic events, injuries to work, diseases from professional illnesses and diseases related to work. This is a law which implies certain costs for employers, but the funds are invested in preventing long-term benefits for both the employer and the employee, and also for the country in general, because the cost of costing the injury at work of the occupational illness or work-related illness is certainly much higher than the invested one. The tragic outcome should not, of course, be talked about, and the most important thing is to correct the current law of the state shows that it takes serious care of workers. The working population is the bearer of economic development of each country, and therefore care for it is of paramount importance. A 38-year-old working age for women and 40-year-olds for men is very long. Many factors in the working environment are physical, chemical, biological, ergonomic, psychosocial that can lead to injury and disease. When it comes to injuries, psychosocial factors are particularly important. Work should be organized to allow for health, prevent injury and loss of life, because life and health have no price. The proposed changes and additions define more precisely the concept of the employer responsible for applying the safety and health measures at work. Much better than the applicable law has been defined as preventing and reducing the risk of work, as it is implemented, who is implementing it, what is regulated by sublaws. We've heard a lot about it in the discussion so far. The paper is also that the employer is obliged by law to give the employee equipment for work and means and equipment for personal protection at work only if they are in compliance with the prescribed technical requirements. This means that the means to work and certain personal protection means must be strictly with an atom, not bought in some Chinese shops or produced in some basements, which often happens that the means to work, especially the means to operate the machine and equipment also do not meet certain standards for the appropriate means. Also, the employer is obliged to provide staff with instructions for safe operation under safety and health regulations at work for the use of equipment for work and means and equipment for personal protection at work. It is important that there is an obligation on the employer to keep instructions in a language that the employee understands. The employer shall have the obligation to train an employee for safe and healthy work under a regulated programme which, when necessary, needs to be renewed and changed. There is an obligation to carry out periodic training checks for safe and healthy work, once a year for work in places with increased risk, and no later than four years for other jobs, which is extremely important because it is known that knowledge that is not renewed over time fades. If an employee is not reminded of some of the rules of conduct and procedures, he neglects them and leads to a mistake that may have serious consequences. An important addition to the law is that when a person is threatened by immediate life or health, he has the opportunity to stop working and to quit his job, the work process and the working environment, and is not responsible for the damage caused by the employer. It is good that the law prohibits employees from disabling, changing or removing security devices on their means of working. In practice, there was a situation that employees of various reasons voluntarily removed the intended protection and suffered as a result. A useful change in the bill is that it is also provided in which safety and health care activities can be carried out by the employer alone, and in which he must have a specific person with appropriate education. It is also important that the law regulates the continued education of persons involved in safety and health at work. Including employees in the care of safety and health at work is also of great importance. The draft amending and supplementing the law better defines who and in what way, under which conditions can be granted a licence to perform health care tasks and when a licence is lost and who can carry out inspection tasks. Penalties are very precisely defined and despite all the situations envisaged, it is good that he will be punished by an employer who does not give employed equipment for work and personal protection in accordance with the prescribed technical requirements or does not provide guidance for use and maintenance. Safety and health at work must be regulated by law. Good law and its consistent application are extremely important. Prevention of loss of life, labour injuries, occupational illnesses and work-related diseases are extremely important both from a human and an economic aspect. Losses resulting from absence from work, treatment, as a result of potentially permanently reduced working ability as a consequence of work injury or occupational illness are enormous and difficult to calculate. The role of medicine in the safety and health of employees is enormous. Unfortunately, previous authorities have minimized the role. I hope there's gonna be hearing and there's gonna be a way to give her back the meaning she once had. The proposed changes and additions, which I have listed only some of, the existing Safety and Health Act at work is significantly improving. The employer aims to make as much profit as possible, and the organization of safe work costs. Without the law, it is certain that the employer would not invest to a sufficient extent in safety at work. As a specialist in medical work, I've had many contacts with employees who work with employers who don't care about the safety and health of workers. Of course, there are positive examples. Also, there are employees who don't care about safety and health at work. Disobeying the rules of conduct at work, not using personal protective means, removing security equipment for work, is not such a rare phenomenon. It is clear that safety and health at work are common concerns for the employer, employee and state. All have a certain and equally important role to play in this care. The government headed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic has shown that it is taking care of employees in this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Safety and Health at Work. It's up to employers and employees to respect the law and the state to organise law enforcement. Everything must be done to raise awareness of the importance of safe work to a higher level among all actors. Of course, it is equally important to propose a law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. The bill is comprehensive, and the government's proposal for such a law also speaks of concern for a number of government employees. The third law is equally significant. All these proposed laws are considered to be an extremely good and Serbian Progressive Party and I will vote in favour with it in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36366	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36367	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable gentlemen of the Ministry, fellow Members of Parliament, we who remain until the end of this working day, are today talking about these laws, proposals for a safety law on work and health. A lot has already been said, most colleagues have brought out everything, which has changed and what the purpose of the changes is. I would now go as a doctor on the other side, and that's about the next information. There are 120 million accidents at work in the world annually, and of which is 210,000 with deadly consequences. Statistics say that in the world every day 500 workers end up dead due to accidents at work. When we see this information, it is clear how important the legislation that we are going from, then, the harmonisation of the law with modern EU laws, as well as the integration of all these laws. When I say the connection of all the laws, I mean this safety and health law at work with the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, because all these accidents at work lead to certain workers being permanent, someone temporarily and temporarily incompetent, not for their work, but for their existence they need to find another job. We can look at the Safety and Health Act at work and from an economic point of view. When I say from an economic point of view, I mean huge costs and enormous damage suffered by society, ours and everyone, due to injuries at work. The employer mostly suffers the cost of ensuring the protection of workers at work. But, guys, let's take an example of our society, social and pension, so it has other costs. So safe work also means better economic security of the worker himself and stability in a single country. It may be interesting to comment, we have, have already spoken colleagues, but I have to touch it, therefore, places with an increased risk of work and jobs that do not require it. All of this also requires occasional checks, and they are mostly regulated by a risk assessment act and then we go down that road and certain checks are being carried out, whether for a year, whether at four years. Often and laws are in collegiate, now I speak one thing from practice, from profession, because we have overtime allowed 32 hours for nonmedical workers, and 40 hours for medical workers. I'm making an example out of practice. However, we know for ourselves what is currently the Employment Regulation in force. The lack of personnel, so often, knowingly breaking the law, to organise the work process, these workers who actually need to rest, and therefore are limited by this number of overtime hours, must work longer than they should. I'm saying, that's something we all need to think about. What may be important, our country has a strategy for safety and health at work from 2013 to 2017, which is a strategy, normally, based on the law. One of the measures in this strategy is the so-called The green economy. What's that supposed to mean? This is where new technologies are thought that are less harmful technologies. Some estimates suggest that this will bring in some perspective the large resources of countries that manage to place this technology and with significantly less risk of work injuries. What do you do in all these situations when we talk about accidents, accidents at work? Surely prevention is something that needs to be taken care of most. It is the employer who has to invest certain funds to ensure working conditions. However, we must touch the worker himself. How many workers are trained for the job they're coming to? In addition to the medical assurances they receive, it is also important to check the skills of workers when they come to work and to conduct occasional education, to educate these workers in order to make these accidents less. It has already been said, not to mention whether or not the means of protection at work are respected, etc. So I just want to make a point, we've already made it up in time, that it takes all these elements to join together. First one good legislative regulation, which we already have, in accordance with other, towards new work processes, modern and new technologies, which I was just talking about, and is a very important human factor, because the worker has to be stable in order to meet all the working conditions. In all these days of hard work, unemployment, difficult working conditions, maybe even wages are not enough, people are not adequately rewarded and this leads to one phenomenon that we cannot ignore, which is stress in working conditions. It's something that's present. Stress can be from different circumstances, but it's something that leads to possible work injuries. Prevention in modern countries, economically wealthy countries, which can educate workers, give them up for education, certainly goes ahead, but in our circumstances these new amendments to the law, I think we're going in the right direction. As far as this second law on the conditions for the departure of workers abroad, I could only praise that the Ministry has gone to meet the problem that we are not going to do what is happening, they have already told my colleagues not to repeat the situations that our workers are going to be in abroad. So, let's still arrange as much as one serious, organised state and one ministry you run is certainly sensitive in these difficult times, difficult economic times if someone goes beyond that, outside of the law, that's at the extreme and his risk. Now, I'd like it so much and it's clear that we're going to support these laws and I think they're good, and the Ministry of Work has a heavy burden in these difficult economic times.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36368	I thank Dr. Pajovic. The word has a folk MP, Gorjana Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36369	Dear Chairman, guests from the Ministry, fellow MPs, my address today refers to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Safety and Health Act at Work. I think the proposed law is essentially one of the most important, because it regulates the basic needs and problems of workers in Serbia in the most direct way. Before I highlight all the positive aspects that this law adopts, let me also mention that the Ministry of Labour in the past period in the field of health at work has adopted an Action Plan for the implementation of the Safety and Health Strategy for the period until 2017. An expert working group has also been trained to identify specific insurance from work injuries and occupational illnesses in order to establish options for the introduction of this special insurance and to compensate for damages. Many other measures have been taken to promote safety and health at work, and all in order to get one more applicable, clearly defined form of legislation that will improve the overall system of safety and health at work. The new Bill on Safety and Health at Work is fully adapted to modern social relations and all three of its aspects are met. A humanitarian-social, economic, sociological aspect. Compared to the existing law, the new bill provides much clearer provisions and regulations, the text terminology is harmonised, the language which the employee understands is introduced, the level of compensation of the person for safety and health at work is raised. The rights and obligations of employers and employees are clearly defined. Also, special attention is given to prevention. The proposed law allows for serious and continuous preventive activities, above all, competent inspections for work, but also employers and employees. The safety and health of workers is the responsibility of the entire society and, as Minister Vulin once pointed out, we must understand and understand that investment for safety in work is not a cost. On the contrary. Investment for safety in the work is a feature of a mature society. The proposal for a safety and health law at work clearly confirms the state's interest in achieving the highest level of safety of workers and that adverse consequences such as labour injuries and occupational diseases are reduced to the lowest possible minimum. The Socialist Movement and Socialist Movement MPs absolutely support all the proposed laws, because by adopting them, we contribute to the protection of every worker, we improve the level of work culture, we contribute to the country's ability to continue implementing social and economic reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36370	Thank you, colleague Marinkovic. The word has a national MP, Branka Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36371	Thank you. Dear President, guests from the government, fellow MPs, respected citizens, I will talk about the proposal for a law confirming the Convention on Jurisdiction of Methodary Law, Recognition, Implementation of Decisions and Co-operation in Parent Responsibility Matter and Measures for Child Protection. The convention, as the minister said today, was adopted in 1996 under the auspices of the UN Convention on International Private Law, and entered into force in 2002. The Convention regulates the issue of parental responsibility, which implies not only the powers and duties of parents but also custody, foster care and other similar institutions as well as representation of children in cross-border situations. In other words, measures for the protection of children under the Convention may concern their personalities and property. Thus, the Convention provides for a very wide protection of children from birth until the age of 18. It is important to stress that the Convention has so far brought together 41 states, including EU countries except Italy. This Convention, or accession to this Convention, is an important step in the process of Eurointegration of our country. The Convention regulates the matter of parental responsibility and other measures for the protection of children, and is conceptd in several continents. First, determining the international competence to decide on parental responsibility and measures to protect children. Secondly, the determination of the relevant right to these questions. Third, mutual recognition of the enforcement of parental responsibility decisions and measures for the protection of children made in the Contracting States. Fourthly, the co-operation of Contracting States through a system of central authorities. In this way, the Convention allows for equal treatment of children living in the same state, predicting organ identification in the best way to assess the child's interest. It allows competent authorities to apply their rights and facilitate the circulation of protection measures through a simplified system of recognition and so on. The convention, as we have seen, has seven heads, a field of application, jurisdiction, a measure of law, recognition and enforcement, co-operation, general provisions and final provisions. International jurisdiction under the Convention shall be determined on the basis of the criteria of the usual residence of the child. The competent authority in the country of the usual residence of the child is authorised to take all kinds of measures for the protection of children, if children fall into a particularly endangered category, and these are refugee children, children without the usual residence and internationally displaced persons. The Convention establishes the regular jurisdiction of the authorities of the State on whose territory children are located. So, the Convention protects the principle of child's best interest and that abstracto, therefore, equal treatment of children in the same country regardless of their nationality. In atypical situations, this principle of jurisdiction is corrected so that it corresponds to the best interests of a specific child. This shall be achieved by means of a transfer institution, i.e. by jurisdiction. In addition to cases of transfer of jurisdiction, the Convention also allows the court which decides on divorce or annulment of marriage to decide under certain conditions on parental responsibility and other measures for the protection of children who do not have the usual residence in the State of the court. Finally, the Convention provides for jurisdiction to decide on emergency and temporary measures for the protection of children on the basis of the criteria of child accessibility in the territory of a specific Contracting State. The Convention provides for a simplified system of recognition of measures to protect children by allowing recognition of "ipso jure". This means that the measure for the protection of children is recognised without the need to carry out a special procedure if it is dealt with voluntarily, means, without opposition. If it is necessary to demonstrate the existence of a decision on a specific measure, it is sufficient to attach the decision itself or a confirmation thereof, even in urgent cases, a telephone call from the central authority which will then submit a written document to confirm the existence of the measure as soon as possible. This system is fully in the interest of child protection, because a child does not have to wait for recognition to be protected in the State Contracting Parties, given that sometimes this classical approach of recognition can last. The Convention also allows for the recognition in advance of any person concerned to apply for recognition or refusal to recognise the measure for the protection and finally the principle of best interest of the child shall also be taken into account in the procedure of the direct enforcement of the measure for the protection of the child. The Convention obliges Contracting States to designate central authorities to cooperate with each other in order to protect children effectively. The central authorities are obliged to provide assistance in implementing measures to protect the measures taken under this Convention, and since Serbia has ratified the Hague Convention on Civil Law aspects of international child abduction, then the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the field of international adoption and the Hague Protocol on the Determination of the Methodical Law for Maintenance Obligations, which each regulates for itself certain areas of child rights, it is also necessary to confirm this Convention which is on our agenda today, because it is only in this way that we get one goal in protecting children's rights, given that this Convention regulates the most important relationship from the corner of a child, which is the relationship between parents and children and children's rights to family life. At the same time, it protects the child and foster care, foster care, and so on. It should be noted that any provision of this Convention also contains provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It should also be noted that, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, as the central authority of the Republic of Serbia, a certain ministry is responsible for family protection, i.e. the Ministry, which is also the proponent of this law on the confirmation of the Convention, headed by Minister Vulin Alexander. Just because of the citizens we, the MPs, represent here, I would only mention that this is exactly what the ministry in 2014 founded 194 adoptions, of which 173 domestics, and 21 abroad. Which is significantly higher compared to all previous years, i.e. previous periods. I will also mention that this ministry is actively participating in Brussels at a meeting of the Subcommittee on Justice, Freedom and Security, and within the framework of the point – the last policy and measures taken in the area of women's rights and rights of the child. Which means, by the way, that is, the contents of Chapter XIV. Also, the ministry's representative regularly participates in the work of the Lanzarote Committee, the Council of Europe, which deals with child protection against all forms of sexual abuse. So, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Fight and Social Affairs, I stress, has carried out an analysis and the addition of the current text of the 2008 Child Rights Protector draft, which was followed by the Council for the Rights of the Child, and the Council has given it as an initiative for the adoption of laws, i.e. to the Government in May of this year. As Mr. Vulin has just said, and within the framework of Children's Week, which was between 7th and 11th October this year, these are all our international obligations, and we ourselves feel it is necessary to raise to a higher level of protection, child rights, by introducing a special protector of child rights. Children's Week is usually dedicated to respecting children's rights and improving their awareness that children have their rights. It is usually a traditional meeting with children, their families, friends of children, and with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who otherwise support responsible parenting and support the right of children to live in a family environment. This year, Children's Week had a motto – Family Support, best support for children. So, children are a strategic thing for this country, the family has always been, and even now, the greatest responsibility to form a human personality. The director of the UNICEF office in Serbia, Michel Seoul, has just said that the tradition of the Children's Week is proof of how much Serbia's society is committed to children and that they meet at that time to discuss what has changed since the last time, what progress has been made and what challenges are still ahead. For the last time, he welcomed the efforts of our country, our government, to improve the opportunities for children to grow up in health and to develop their full potential. Many things have been done to offer families support for raising children. This specifically refers to poor families and children facing social problems. So I am sure that this ministry has had a number of other activities, and I have listed only some that have seemed interesting and connected to this agenda today, and I am quite certain that the correct solution is that this ministry is the central authority of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with this Convention. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention, of course on Voting Day, I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36372	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and unique search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36373	Dear Chairman, guests from the Ministry, given that my predecessors from the government and the opposition have said a lot of what I planned to say, I will make sure in the final part that I give one aspect that I believe my colleagues did not include, which is that when we talk about these amendments and additions, but also about the laws in general that regulate this area of work, we must first consider and at what level the implementation of these applicable laws is, so that we can assess how effective these new amendments and additions of the laws that we are making here can be. It's kind of hard for me to join the euphoria of this bill and accept all the enthusiasms that my colleagues and colleagues have given, when I know that workers in public enterprises, in Novi Pazar, and even in the city administration, for months, even years don't pay salaries, or contributions to pension and health insurance. I have been trying without success for some time to get an answer to who from the government and, on the basis of which it allows the coalition in Novi Pazar to charge the city by an amount of three years of budgets and who allows workers in public enterprises, as I said, and in the city administration, several years ago, not to pay contributions to pension and health insurance. How this government is going to make some foreign employer respect the provisions of this law in another country, while at the same time breaking the fundamental rights of workers in state authorities and institutions. That's my question, I hope someone from the Ministry, since the minister isn't here, will be able to answer. This is not the first time I've pointed out these things in the National Assembly, which to your ministry, which to the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government and for years has accumulated a bunch of materials that prove all of my claims. We don't have any of those good laws, if those good laws stay just a dead letter on paper. So, first of all, attention should be paid to the existence of criminal provisions for those who break the law, either this, or any other law, and that is the proposer in this law, to a good degree and predicted. It's one good thing this bill has. Then it is necessary to pay particular attention to the implementation of the law and to preventing the abuse of these laws, and when I talk about abuses, there are many examples of abuse of a new law, let's say the work, where employers set abnormally high standards without consulting them and without any real basis and thus keep them in constant mental pressure and under threat of dismissal, abuse of this famous member of 171 and other neighbouring members of the work. So these are not normal conditions in which our workers should carry out their work assignments. What is my additional suggestion, as regards these concrete proposals, is that statistics should also be consulted when making new amendments and the bill. We believe that every amendment and addition of the law should also be consulted by the Republic Bureau of Statistics and that these laws, especially those that have such general application, need to also consult these statistics on certain specific interests. I'll take advantage of one example, someone may have missed it, but in our country in the last few years it's dramatically increased the number of attacks, robberies, and even murders, whose target was taxi drivers. Only in Novi Pazar in the last few years have several cases of robbery and even cases where military members have harassed and beaten a taxi driver. Unfortunately, there was one murder when 20-year-old Mirza Radonjica was killed, which has not yet been illuminated, and only a few days ago, two bandits beat up a taxi driver downtown and, as far as I heard, they were immediately released. Such examples are still much more, unfortunately, throughout our country, and this is something that must be considered when new amendments to the law are written and when occupations that have certain specificities are defined. Someone's already mentioned an example of health care professionals, and I'm not going to repeat it. I just want to finally look at an interesting aspect given by a colleague from the ruling coalition who says, thanking this law, which says it is good because it will help a large number of Sandzak workers, from Novi Pazar, who are currently working abroad, citing it as some good data. I'm now saying that these people aren't working abroad because they wanted to, but because they couldn't find a job in their town, so some young people with college diplomas agreed to do the least paid jobs and physical jobs in the West with college diplomas just so they could feed their families. It's not something that someone who's been in power in Novi Pazar for eight years whose prime minister has been in government for 15 years should be praised. It is the defeat of one policy, and I do not think it should be used as a good example, which is why these laws should be supported. We have submitted several amendments to these draft laws and I hope that the Proposer will take seriously into consideration because we believe that they are well improving this bill and in accordance with this, we will be in the voting day and determine whether we will support this law or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-13-0.u36374	I thank my colleague Imamovic. According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint principled Single Search on the draft laws referred to in points 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda. I'd like to inform you that we will continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thanks and I'll see you tomorrow.
