ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 135 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 131 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vesna Martinović, Branko Ružić, Vesna Besarović and Branko Djurovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and extremely for Monday, therefore, past the date set out in Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly this year, which was convened at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 48(3) Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also submitted a request for the maintenance of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a specific agenda. The following Dn e v n i r e d 1 is specified. Proposal for a law on special conditions of sale of certain immovableities in the possession of the Republic of Serbia; 2. Proposal for a law on the provision of payment of legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons who do not carry out their duties; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on settlement periods for financial liabilities in commercial transactions; 6. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the Project Clinical Centres/A; 7. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the Project Clinical Centre/B; 8. Proposal for a law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees; 9. Proposal for a law on the register of employees, elected, appointed, appointed and employed persons with public funds users; 10. Proposal for a law on the transport of freight in road transport; 11. Proposal for a Law on the transport of passengers in road transport; 12. Proposal for a Law on textbooks; 13. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Higher Education; 14. Proposal for a law on the basis of an education and education system. National MP Igor Bečić, pursuant to Article 92(2), Article 157(2) and 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a law on special conditions of sale of certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a law on the payment of legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons, which do not carry out the activity; Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Public Procurement; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt Act; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the time limits for the settlement of financial obligations in commercial transactions; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the Project of the Clinical Centre/A Project; Proposal for a Law on the Proposing of Public Persons in the Officials; Joint principled search on: Proposal for a freight transport law in road transport; Proposal for a transport law for road passengers. I, joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law on textbooks; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Higher Education; Proposal for a Law on the founding of an education and education system. Does MP Igor Becic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 10, of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session: Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Dr Kori Udovici, Finance Minister Dr Dusan Vujovic, with his associates. Common principle and uniform search, meaning points 1 to 9 of the agenda. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a law on special conditions of sale of certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a law on the payment of legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons, which do not carry out their duties; Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on public procurement; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt Law; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the time limits for the settlement of financial obligations in commercial transactions; Proposal for a Law on the approval of the Treaty amending and supplementing the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the Project Clinical Centre/A; Proposal for a Law on the approval of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for a project Clinical Centre/B; Proposal for a Law on the Method of the Way of the Legalisation of the Public Persons and of Persons in the Public Accountation of Persons, a Member. Do the representatives of promoter Dr Dusan Vujovic, finance minister and Dr Kori Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr Dusan Vujović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33285	Let me just have a few introductory notes on a number of laws, and then I would ask colleague Kori Udovicki to give you a few introductory notes on the laws for which she was directly in charge. So here we have a set of laws that largely continue and complete the institutional and economic reforms that we defined last year and implement almost continuously. You'll probably say that this is a heterogeneous group of laws, some of them are just because we have deadlines to ensure the smooth functioning of individual loans and individual transactions, and some laws are an integral part of the essence of our economic reforms. Let me start with a law that may not sound like an important law but is practically at the heart of our reforms, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the terms of settlement of monetary obligations in commercial transactions. It's something we're popularly calling "rino" with us, which is a law that has been functioning for many years and de facto effectively regulates payment relations between the public and private sectors, on the one hand, within the private sector and now spread within the public sector. What are the amendments to the law foreseeing? It is predicted that after the adoption of this law, we will raise the level of financial discipline in the system to the degree that will allow for the smooth implementation of all financial transactions. As you know by applying the old law, it was an obligation, first of all, for the beneficiaries of the budget, i.e. the public sector to settle its obligations towards the private sector so that it could enjoy some of the privileges that the public sector has and, among other things, that it could pay salaries and all other obligations in normal performance. Within the private sector, it worked as a payment system that was in practice implemented with a higher or lower degree of financial discipline, and between the beneficiaries of the budget, or within the public sector, we had a lack of clear rules. This amendment of the law de facto defines those rules and says that with the effectiveness of this law we introduce a system of testing, public sector payments up to 60 days. These are the famous payments of local levels of self-government, communal actions towards suppliers, gas, natural gas, electricity and everything else, on the one hand, and on the other hand, this is the practical expansion of the same degree of financial discipline to the entire system in the country. To remind you between the public and private sectors, the deadlines were 45 days in the private sector, the practice of up to 90 days has been established, although in practice this is often extended and many entities use their economic power to expand to small entities beyond what is prescribed by law. The aim of this law is to generalise financial discipline on all elements of the system, to strengthen law enforcement, to empower the appropriate authorities, to implement the law and thus to allow all equal operating conditions. It's one thing when someone has an obligation, and the other thing is whether or not they pay for it. The most painful will be the application of this law at the local level, where obligations will have to be paid to suppliers of all gas, electricity, etc. The second level will be raising general financial discipline in the system. This law is directly in line with the commitments we make with EU accession. This law is a direct part of the programme supported by the Fund, this law is directly what the flow of all regulated financial systems in the world is. I know it won't be easy to apply this law, but without the application of this law, it's practically delegating the functioning of the market. The way this point of change is applied and the amendments to the laws that we will discuss today and Wednesday in detail will apply on the day of entry into force of this law, but the sanctions will only apply from 1 January, given the 60-day period de facto, in early March. So we leave a long enough period of time to move on to recording all invoices, to look at the state and obligations that will arise under this law, and then find a way to effectively apply this law in practice. Other related law relating to the financial sphere is the Law on the Making of Payments of Legal Persons, Entrepreneurs and Physical Persons who do not perform any activity. It's about a law that's not easy to understand, if we don't know the context, and the context is next, you know that in this House we've passed the Payment Services Act, which replaced the old Payments Act. By passing this bill on payment services, de facto some fields that concern the basic institutes that are necessary for the normal operation of the country's payment turnover have remained uncovered. It is about opening commitments, opening current accounts, reporting on current accounts, submitting all financial reports. The National Bank, which proposed the Law on Payment Services, adhered to the EU standard, where these details are not foreseen. Therefore, on 1 October when the law came into force, the vacuum would remain in the definition of the basic assumptions of functioning, i.e. the regulated payment traffic, and therefore we are adopting this law, in order to fill it out, in order to ensure the continuity of those parts of the payment law that should otherwise continue to apply, and this is one technical loss, the field of definition of certain payment instruments has been opened, and we are closing and providing continuity for these changes, so that all legal entities must open an account in the bank when registering their activities, and secondly, they must submit reports in accordance with the standards on traffic in those accounts, thus raising the level of tax and overall financial disciplines in the system. If necessary, we'll discuss the technical details later. The third law that is most common here and I would like to mention, it is the law, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. With this law, we, in accordance with the Action Plan, have committed ourselves to carrying out the ongoing alignment in the fourth quarter of this year with the new EU directives and the agreements reached under Chapter V, de facto, and to bring this law into line with new directives, leave some weaknesses in its functioning and allow our public procurement system to meet those objectives that belong to it under the law. To be more specific, today we have opened a public procurement procedure in 2014, the average period from the beginning to the end of the procedure was about 124 days, when the days for complaints and the rest related, I mean the procedure, arrived until 199. So, for 200 days, the public procurement process was on average. According to our estimates, this is quite slow, and it does not match what is expected in line with EU directives, which is actually what many countries in the world are doing. The other problem we had is that the minimum values, i.e., maximum, are the minimum values for full purchases, i.e. the maximum values for so-called. Small purchases were on a pretty low level. So they were at the level of three million dinars, and we suggest that those for standard purchases are raised from three million to five million, i.e. in energy, water, transport and postal services, raised from three to 10 million, in other words, to provide simplified procedures for what can be considered essentially small purchases, to provide simplified procedures, for what can be considered essentially small purchases, not to burden these procedures with long and complicated processes. Except for shorter deadlines, which we can discuss in more detail, when it comes to amendments, we move on to modernising the communication system. Instead of the old system that anyone in a legal job, in some procurement business, is waiting to receive some information by mail about how the previous phase ended, avoiding signing and thus extending all deadlines and going to a modern system of publishing all results on the government website where they will be available to everyone, we also satisfy the principle of transparency and the principle of availability of information to everyone and the principle of effective use of state resources, we speed up the process. Therefore, instead of receiving as evidence that it is rising to a stage in the process of ending, publishing on the government site and on the relevant websites of interested ministries that are part of the process, the process will be considered complete and will move on. Secondly, according to European and I don't know why it didn't happen in the previous version of the law, we expanded the domain of application so-called. simplified procedures, lit procedures, which are now extended to certain services which are part of, services and public procurement of small value, independent of estimated value and to a whole range of services in social, health, hotel, restaurant, education, vocational training, etc. The third area on which we want to improve the application of this law is very important, and to achieve the essential objectives of increasing efficiency, competitiveness and achieving the best price for all participants in the procurement process is to define so-called. the active legitimacy of those who have the right to make objections about this procurement process and thus add time to administrative additional decision-making in the process. It was not clearly defined before, because some participants, in order to protect their own interests, could on several occasions, directly or indirectly, with over-linked persons to make objections and thereby extend the process. If we say that the average time of the complaint is 74 days, then you can understand that several interested participants can lift the duration of the procurement process to more than one year, thus practically devising the meaning of the main objective of the public procurement system, i.e. to extend the existing contracts which, for valid reasons, were to be renewed, improved, improved, raised levels of competitiveness, transparency etc. Another important innovation in this law is that the objections do not have an automatic suspension fact. So, in other words, the objection does not delay actions, except executives, finals, means the conclusion of an objection, etc. Therefore, complaints cannot be stopped by processes that can be carried out. These are essential provisions, there are a whole series of smaller technical provisions. It is very important for you to look closely at this Law. Our goal is neither to open the peaches in this system nor to allow uncompetitive solutions. Our goal is to strengthen competitive solutions, to cut deadlines, to speed up the process, to achieve the best prices for realising the use of public resources in all areas defined by this Law. The following law, which we have put on the agenda, related to this Public Debt Act, which is adapted to the provisions of the Public Debt Act as part of our agreement with the IMF, i.e. the agreement supported by the IMF. You remember when we discussed the 2015 budget that we explicitly placed that there would be no liquidity financing, no issuing, no direct funding, no other hidden way. What's the point? The point is that a debt is a means to finance investment and long-term needs, not short-term liquidity. The short-term liquidity is financed by the issue of debt instruments, but short-term debt instruments, public debt should be those funds that provide the state with long-term funding sources, primarily in infrastructure areas and in those areas where we cannot cover these obligations by our current savings, i.e. by accumulation. In addition to these explicit commitments that we put into the budget, we agreed that in the Public Debt Act we would also introduce appropriate provisions, thus preventing an uncontrolled increase in public debt and thus creating a space for ourselves to optimise public debt, a minimum reduction, i.e. to a minimum, reduce public debt costs by all instruments, all handles and all currencies, and thus achieve the existing public debt cost of around a billion and 100 million euros in the budget to 200-300 million in the coming year, year and a half. So this creates preconditions for more efficient public debt management, for optimal hand structure, for optimal currency structure and for the lowest debt price. Two concrete laws apply, i.e. two laws which are a de facto component of what we call ratification, to amendments to the Law on the Confirmation of the Finance of the Clinical Centre A and the Clinical Centre B. They were signed on 8 and 12 December 2006 and we ask that due to slower use of funds, deadlines for withdrawal until 31 December 2018, i.e. to spend the appropriations until 31 December 2019. Of course, in order for it to be better in time to prepare all the projects and withdraw funds in the original terms, but first I have to realize that the original deadlines are quite short and second, so this extension of the withdrawal deadlines by the end of 2018 and spending 2019 will not significantly increase the costs due to interkalar interest, but it will give us the opportunity to respect, among other things, the obligations arising from the Public Procurement Act and in the best way we realize these clinical centres that will provide, hopefully, quality, cheap and justified medical services to the population. Finally, perhaps for you the most interesting, most controversial, draft law on the register of employees, elected, appointed. This will be discussed by Kori Udovicki, and for me, I have a few words to say about the Law on special conditions of selling certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, we have since last year been applying, or we have defined and implemented a comprehensive fiscal consolidation programme. One of the key elements of this programme – reducing and controlling spending, reducing deficits, etc., is realised with very good results. Friday we have a minimum surplus in July. The total deficit since the beginning of the year is between 25 billion and 30 billion, with the addition of the state perhaps a little more than it was in May, two or three billion more, but four, five times below the target values set in a rather conservative plan supported by the IMF. Except for the management of the current budget, we aim to manage more effectively the total asset, which is a duty, i.e. the mission of the finance ministry in front of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, we don't have a detailed list of assets yet, we don't have clear criteria on how to manage total social property. We want to move a few steps closer to defining what would be the balance sheet of the Republic of Serbia, to know exactly what we have in that balance sheet, how we have this balance sheet and how best to address the issue of the property structure of these resources, and to prepare ourselves for all other obligations that are ahead of us, both in better fiscal consolidation and in response to the obligations we have under the Law on Restitution and all other obligations, and among other things, international courts that judge that the Republic of Serbia must pay certain costs. Our goal is to translate that part of the property of the Republic of Serbia, which is not functionally related to the operational functioning of the state, into optimal long-term property, i.e. to ensure the privatisation of those objects that are not necessary for the functioning of the Serbian state. What does that mean exactly? In the first step, the Law that is proposed to you today is about selling certain immovableities of business space and housing that are already under the usage contracts, i.e. are not available to the Republic of Serbia, but the maintenance of these facilities is, the collection of rent is also a question of restoring these contracts, which is also a question of what is the responsibility of the Serbian state. We have a special administration dealing with property management issues and she's just about to unload that asset fund. This does not refer to the current fund of diplomatic and consular representations that are actively used, but refers to those parts of the fund, apartments, business premises and other objects that were inherited from the period of federal, socialist and other names of the Republic of Yugoslavia, which were intended for certain functions that existed in the time of the federal state, and today no longer exist. It's about a whole number of apartments, buildings and related property elements that we want to record and sell in due course. Today you have before you a law that defines de facto what is legally called in the people – the right to prevent the purchase of existing users of business space and living space. There have been several attempts in the past to do a similar thing. Some have resulted in a significant degree of privatisation, and some have not. The point was that in previous attempts, an attempt was made to privatise through a fixed definition of values in the law, i.e. in state regulations. That's not the case here. Here we are betting on the general intensities of the reform that we are doing at market value where market value will be determined on the basis of an assessment. In our case, we suggest that the appraiser be the tax administration and that the law be limited, the length of the law and the subject matter of the law. This can only be business space or residential space, which was contracted on 31 December 2014, or on 1 January 2015. So this law prevents someone from making later contracts to benefit from this law. Apart from being realistic and applicable, unlike some laws that were not and were not subject to any transaction, this law proposes that the transaction valorise the investor's investments up to 20%, 25% of the apartment's market value to base competent assessment of the skills. In our case, it will be the Belgrade City Institute. The old laws envisioned different forms of meeting obligations in this so-called so-called. In exchange for fulfillment, fulfillment. In a given situation, this is a particular form which is in fact what would be said in English "det-ased freedom" that would be a replacement of the claim for an activity. This was also foreseen in some previous laws as a substitute for old foreign exchange savings for the exercise of rights in property. That is not foreseen in this law. Here it is expected to pay exclusively in cash or by some financial instrument that some bank supports. So, the goal, to get back to the beginning, is to get the necessary resources to be able to meet the remaining strong obligations that we have in the structural part of the budget. Second, defining clear property relations. Third, defining the first step in the process of optimization of size, type, structure and functions of state ownership in the housing fund, in business space, in infrastructure. For me, the last and most important – the affirmation of the principle of the market value of the financial discipline of transparency and the payment of its obligations in general. Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague, Cora Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33286	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33287	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before you the Law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees, which represents one instrument, one instrument to which the Government, but also the wider state, means that other branches of government will work to reduce the cost of working in the state into sustainable frameworks, while also promoting the organisation and efficiency of the work of the state administration. This law covers all users of public funds that are not public enterprises, i.e. which do not operate under the usual rules of business with the exception of local public enterprises, which I will talk about a little later. Therefore, it also covers independent bodies and other branches of government, following the same logic of control and decision-making that is applied to their budgetary means, i.e. the way of approval, the systems of staff. This broad coverage stems from the fact that we all have to share responsibility and accept the principles and way of working with which the state of Serbia will become sustainable not only in short, but also in the Wednesday and long term. I must say that such a law would not be necessary in a country that has already completed the transition in the sense that there is indeed a budgetary discipline in which it is firmly established that no one can spend more than it has. Therefore, the number of employees and the optimal number and optimal structure of employees are determined on the basis of how many budgets there are. We don't have that in Serbia yet. We have a long tradition of avoiding the change of organisation, whether in the public sector or even in the private sector. So we can't adapt the organisational structure to existing means. Hopefully, we'll find some means somewhere, put off what needs to be done, and we'll fit in as much as we have and move on and do the best we can with what we have. So this law, unlike the previous rationalisations that were linear, and that went in a line of less resistance and that actually left behind always a weakened public administration this law sets up frameworks, gives the instrument and the possibility of this time being different. By limiting it to duration as a Lex specialis only until 2018, we also say that we expect to change the way we behave at the time of application of this law, to change the system so that at the end of this period it will no longer be necessary, but the budgetary limit will be enough to dictate the frameworks within which we can effectively, healthy, well-organised to operate. No matter what he's system, we've been joking while we've been working, this is a bad system, but it's the best possible solution to this situation that exists right now. One of the great things that it gives as a solution, which is very important, is that this law overcomes the already unsustainable effects and the unsustainable way of deciding which currently exists with a ban on public sector employment. This law allows for, from the beginning of 2016, as long as the beneficiary of public funds is kept within the maximum number of employees defined by this law so that special employment permits are no longer required, i.e. the replacement of those employees who need to be replaced. Of course, since these ceilings will be restrictive for many, it still means that managers and responsible users of public funds will have to find a way to create space for those personnel who need them most. It is also very important to stress that this law imposes nothing on nothing and does not require the number of employees to be reduced everywhere in all organisations and bodies, state bodies and in the public sector, except for large public enterprises. What does that mean? This law allows the responsible and responsible way, with the corresponding clearly laid down criteria in the law, to determine who it is, where it may actually be necessary for more new employees. We've run the analyses we've conducted in the past months, and we've established that there is one. There are serious needs for hiring new profiles, for introducing new jobs, for replacing some of those employees who retired in the previous years, in the previous year and a half, and to improve and modernise the business of the state. We must in the coming period, especially on the road to EU accession and to enable ourselves to achieve all the financial benefits that the EU offers on the road to joining it, in order to achieve this, we will have to and employ new persons, some authorities will have to increase. We often talk about the Agrarian Payments Administration, which must be filled in to be able to withdraw funds to develop the rural sector in Serbia, and we have been waiting for this for a long time. It is very important for us to understand that this is not a law on linear reduction of employees everywhere and in every part of the public administration. On the contrary, this is a law that requires sound reflection and that everyone in that hierarchy, the pyramids of decision-making, be held accountable for the army's portfolio. In this case, the ministries are the ones who decide, who propose, analyse where their surpluses are, or where there is room for reduction, to increase efficiency, to connect, which functions are doubled, etc., and propose to the General Secretariat of the Government, i.e. propose and give their reasoned views to the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, and the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Finance give their opinion to the General Secretariat of the Government, who proposes to the Government and the Government itself to decide on this overall allocation, so to say, the resources of the total number of staff in the jurisdiction of the ministries, and then propose a schedule within the users of public funds that are in their portfolios. Then, the responsible and managers in the users of public funds must adhere to the rules of this law, the criteria of this law when determining specifically the jobs, i.e. the people who will be employed or who need to be employed or who have to be rationalised. This law also provides for stimulating severances, as well as in previous rationalisations, by very narrowing down the space for misuse of public funds, by simply giving stimulating severances where you will hire someone the next day after leaving with stimulating severance, so that the poll on the social programme cannot be covered by employees whose work is needed or who work on jobs that are necessary to provide an adequate number of perpetrators in the period of implementation of rationalisation. Then, if someone goes away in agreement, he cannot be employed in the public sector during the duration of this law, and the record of someone being contractually separated from work is kept in the employee register, which will be spoken of in a matter of minutes, it is the second law. Otherwise, severances under the Rationalisation Act are provided for and all pensioners are required to retire and leave unless the responsible person in the organisation has identified their jobs and jobs as necessary. Because the moment they retire again, they won't be able to work in that same face if it wasn't so specific. It lasts, of course, during the course of this law. Furthermore, when it comes to units of local self-government, this law gives a very broad framework, to say the maximum public sector employment, in the public sector system of local self-government, which we also hope and believe must be overcome during the duration of this law, but the best way to overcome the problems that have arisen in previous years is by having a firm maximum for employees of local self-government and local self-government institutions, and there was no mechanism to limit employment in public utility companies, i.e. in public companies established by local self-government or in legal entities established by these public enterprises. What happened is that, since these companies do not actually operate as they should, according to business principles and principles of profit, and since many of these public enterprises are not at all public enterprises at all, but perform the functions of institutions, there are very large rationalities in these organisations, which are ultimately transferred to the burden of the budget of local self-government itself, and in the long run to the whole state. As a result, a method of maximising the number of employees in all institutions, i.e. in all organisations in the local self-government public sector, which is treated in practice. So for several types of size and other characteristics of local self-government it has been recognised that there is one kind of regularity about the number of employees for that size and criteria are set so that all local self-government is required to be harmonised during the rationalisation period, which in this case can last longer than 2018, i.e. bring to the standard those 20% of the best local self-government in that category. So the criteria are this -- if I can do the worst of 20% of the best that you can do, then I guess you can. That's the logic by which that general framework is determined. From year to year, the government will make a decision that sets out the correct criteria for that year, which part of this rationalisation all local self-government should implement and will not be linear. So where the local self-government has more employees, there will have to be more rationalization in each of these years than local self-governments that are closer to total rationality. For those local self-governments that are below the maximum criteria, again as with other users of public funds, while it lasts in 2015, they will have to ask for employment permits, and from 2016 onwards their number of employees will not have to, or will be able to work within that maximum that is not restrictive. I would just like to say that the implementation of this law will use the possibility that those who do not streamline budgets, transfers temporarily, cannot be permanent, but also to consider that if they have not been rationalised within one year then budgets do not have to cover that unreal part of the income that has remained, unless local self-governments have complied with the regulations. So the supervision of the implementation of this law is doing different inspections depending on the sector, because this is very wide. Let me also mention that in 2015, for the severances at the level of units of local self-government, which are needed in terms of the one already envisaged and had to be separated by budget means, it will be possible to use funds from the republican budget. So that's when it comes to the Law on determining the maximum number of public sector employees. When it comes to the Law on the Register of Employees, the elected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons of the users of public funds, this is about one, so to speak, more technical act. The reasons for its adoption are primarily to enable the monitoring of the implementation of public administration reform, and in particular the Law on how to determine the maximum number of employees. It also allows for the monitoring of the country's remuneration and analysis of the country's profit system. It is very important that this law regulates the collection and processing of personal data of employees in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. This register has so far been led by the Ministry of Finance and regulated by the regulation, and yet its importance and above all the fact that personal data requires it to be regulated by a legal instrument. The law also recognises in its organisation work on the register the fact that there is a division of competences between the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and the Ministry of Finance, so that the Ministry of State Administration deals with labour relations and profit relations, while the finance ministry deals with the financial effects of public sector employment. The scope of this law is broader than the scope of the Law on how to determine the maximum number of employees, because it covers all the users of public funds. I'm not going to list it here, because it's clear in the law itself. In this register, the only thing that is fundamentally different from the register that we should be, what we aim to create in the next two years, and which most of the regulated states have, means the register of all public sector employees, the difference is in the process. This register is based on the self-reporting of employees by public funds users, while this large, permanent and real, so to speak, the register of employees in the country, when established, will be linked to the employment process and to the payout of earnings, in such a way as to prevent any errors or possibility of not reporting employees. That's it. I think the other topics of this law are very technical. If there's any need for clarification, we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33288	The first registered MP is Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33289	Dear Deputy Prime Minister Udovici, Mr Vujović, Mr Minister Tasovac, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak in front of the SVM parliamentary group on the draft law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees and on the draft law on the register of employees, elected and appointed, appointed and engaged persons by public service users, and my colleague Zoltan Pek will talk about the set of the draft law in the area of finance. We've never been decorated by demagogy and populism in SVM, and I'm not going to talk about it, like neither you nor Mrs. Udovici, about that there are other options and other solutions. Unfortunately, there isn't. We've come, this country, thanks to previous decades and years, has come to the wall and the adoption of one of these laws is necessary. It would be irresponsible if I were to talk about that there are other solutions and there are other options. Public sector reform is certainly a prerequisite for a more efficient public administration and for the consolidation of public finances in the Republic of Serbia, and therefore I said that without this law we simply cannot think about achieving these objectives. Certainly, the goal we must support is to reduce costs and increase the quality of public services. It's very good that the government didn't choose a method of linear rationalization, a method of linear dismissal, so-called. The system of lawn mowers, Colloquial, as people and citizens call it. It is good that we will be in a position to abolish the Law that provided for a ban on employment, and this Law has led to absurdity in many cases. This is certainly the positive side of this law, i.e. this bill. I could agree with you and that there will be no layoff with every public resource user in every organization, in every state body, in every public service, and I would argue on the grounds that for certain jobs this country will also have to hire new employees for certain tasks, for certain responsibilities. These countries and public service authorities do not have a sufficient number of perpetrators, I am thinking first of all about the EU accession process and the whole set of these issues. That's why we can't talk about this law as a law of layoffs, although, as I said at first, we should say unequivocally, as you said, that it will come to rationalization. I suppose that this rationalisation by the end of 2018 will not only come to a lesser extent that these rationalisations cannot be, unfortunately, purely cosmetical, but this is due to previous years and even the previous decades. It is certainly to welcome and hope to meet the objective mentioned in the reasoning of this bill, which is to spend on employee earnings from the current 11.8% of GDP to 8% per year. If that happens, then all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will feel it because these funds will go into infrastructure development, in building new schools or rebuilding schools, kindergartens, etc., and there will be a dissolving economy. That's why I said it and now for the second or third time I repeat that this law is, unfortunately, necessary. It is not the first law to regulate or regulate this area, which was passed by this high house, by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In 2009, two laws were passed. Those laws are still in force. One is the Law on determining the maximum number of employees in the local administration, and another is the Law on determining the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration. I would like to support my claim with one example that this is not about linear rationalisation or the lawn mower system, as people call it, what people call it, and it refers to future rationalization related to local administration. Under the November 2009 law, it was envisaged that, regardless of the various objective parameters, local self-government could employ four employees per 1,000 inhabitants, meaning four employees of 1,000 residents of certain local self-government, meaning municipalities or cities. Under the bill, depending on carefully selected objective criteria, the number ranges from 9.5 to 18.5 employees per thousand people. So this is about an increase on the one hand, and on the other hand it is about taking into account certain very clearly set criteria for determining the number of employees per 1,000 residents in local self-government. Speaking of which, I'd like to highlight one solution provided for by the bill. This applies to the number of unspecified staff in the local self-government unit and increases the number by 0.3 employed per 1,000 inhabitants for each language of the national minority that is officially used in the local self-government unit. I would also like to say to the public in this high house that, according to the 2009 Law, it is still valid, which regulates the same area, that it is intended to provide 0.1 employees to 1,000 inhabitants for each language that is officially used in the territory of the municipality or city. So instead of 0.1, now we're going to have a number of 0.3. When we wrote the amendments, I'll talk about it a little later, and we have amendments because everything can always get even more improved, and we've been thinking about whether to increase this number by 0.3, but we decided not to do it because it would be incorrect on the one hand, on the other hand, and on the other hand, that would be irresponsible. Why am I saying that? I claim that in 2009, this one of me mentioned the Law on determining the maximum number of employees in the local administration, this bill did not provide for any exception, given how many languages there are in official use in the territory of the municipality or the city and it was our amendment to predict it. We were able to agree with the government at the time to be 0.1. That amendment was then adopted in 2009, so that it became part of the law. The bill now provides for instead of 0,1 – 0.3. If that's how the government regulated it, and if we're considering a very difficult economic situation, then I think it would be incorrect and irresponsible on our part to suggest instead of 0.3 - 0.4 or 0.5 or who knows how much. On the other hand, I would like to underline that it is extremely important that this is foreseen by the bill, because it does not matter whether in one, any local self-government, in the official use of only Serbian and Cyrillic letters, or in the official use of the language is another national minority or more national minorities, such as in Novi Sad, Subotica and, thank God, in countless local self-government in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, and not only in the area of the AP Vojvodina. Such local self-governments exist in both eastern Serbia and southern Serbia and almost everywhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I said earlier that we have certain amendments, and I don't think you'll be surprised when you see those amendments, because it's a subject that we've talked about in the past months, and even in the previous year, the last 14 months, we've talked about. We simply don't want to miss the opportunity to install these solutions into this bill, because that would be irresponsible on our part, that would be a huge failure, as it would be irresponsible if we proposed 0.4 instead of 0.3, which I spoke about earlier. We have a very easy situation for us in the parliamentary group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, because you, Mrs. Udovici, are also in charge of minority issues in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we don't need to talk about it to another member of the government because it belongs to your portfolio. You are well aware of the situation and you know that the Constitution provides for the national composition of the population and the proper representation of members of the national minorities in the employment of state bodies, public services, the authorities of the Autonomous Province, the units of local self-government. You also know that the current situation, as far as this issue is concerned, is far from this constitutional guarantee, from this solution that the Constitution has provided since 2006. Of course, it can't be this government's fault, it's not even the previous one, it's not the one before that government, it's the result of the circumstances that we've had for the past 25 years, and maybe more. Thanks to these circumstances, members of national minorities, I am, of course, not only talking about the Hungarian minority but I am talking about both Bosniak and Albanian and Roma, Bulgarian, Romanian and every other national minority, members of these national minorities are not even close to being represented in state bodies, organisations, public services, the province or local self-government, so that they should be and are far below the proportions of the population and the Republic and certain individual local self-governments. Since I have begun to see undisputed dismissal, we find it very important that, when determining the maximum number of employees in certain bodies, organisations, public services, rural and local administrations, this constitutional obligation is taken into account, Article 77(2). The Constitution also makes sure that the small number of employees in local, regional or national administrations or public services are not fired, because then we will come into an even greater disproportion and then we will need even more time to involve members of national minorities in the work of national authorities and not to list all other organisations, local, rural, public services etc. In this bill, the government defined in Article 7 the maximum number of employees. It's a very detailed member, a very detailed, comprehensive solution. There are more criteria here and we have proposed our amendment to add another criterion, and the essence of this criterion is that the authorities are competent to submit a proposal on the maximum number of employees, to set up their proposals in particular, and then to go, among other things, to take into account the national composition of the population, the proper representation of members of national minorities and the knowledge of languages spoken in the field of the state authority, public service, autonomous province or unit of local self-government. What's that supposed to mean in practice? Of course, it does not mean positive discrimination for members of national minorities in the sense that now someone must not be fired because he is Hungarian, Albanian, Bosniak, etc. But it is, according to our proposal, that if we have two employees who have the same results in the work, and can only be left with one, now I simplify the maximum, then because citizens living in the area of certain local self-government and so that they can consume their rights related to the official use of language, then the one who can communicate in their native language remains. We don't even get into who says it, but it's important that citizens can consume and exercise their rights. This solution should not seem like a new solution to you, we practically agreed this solution in November, when we discussed the draft law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. This is about the same solution. Why is it important that this solution, this amendment of ours, be adopted and be part of the bill of law or adopted law? Because if we didn't do this, then we'd be in a situation where in early 2019, I'm convinced, then we'd have even worse indicators about the national structure of employees than we have now. This solution will help to improve this condition. Of course, not overnight. We're aware that it's an extremely long period, but it has to go. It is not a new solution, nor is it because the essence of this solution is foreseen by our coalition agreement, which the SNS concluded with the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, and on the other hand, this solution is also foreseen by the Action Plan for Chapter 23. This is a public document, which was on the Internet presentation of certain state bodies. There is now a newer version of the Action Plan, perhaps it has already been completed and sent, but this solution has been incorporated into this action plan and therefore we believe that the amendment should not be controversial. In a very short way, on the second draft of the law, on the register of employees, elected, appointed, appointed and engaged, persons with users of public funds, there are two amendments, and we are essentially talking about one solution. The amendment refers to the fact that this register, which will contain about 40 different data relating to each employee, appointed, appointed, appointed, engaged, also contains information on nationality, with respect, of course, to the constitutional provision on volunteering, under which no one is obliged to declare his or her nationality and, as a correction to it or thus, to the fact that this is an objective information, in which language is acquired basic and secondary education for the given employee, appointed, appointed, engaged, engaged. We think this is a necessary prerequisite, we just need to know how many employees we have to be able to increase the share of members of the national minorities. I hope that our arguments will be respected and the amendments adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33290	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Dr. Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33291	I thank the president. Dear Ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SDPS parliamentary group will support the draft law in the area of finance, as well as the proposal proposed by Deputy Prime Minister Kori Udovicki, which is more than within the domain of the state administration, but also that they have implications for finance, because we believe they will contribute to the increase of financial discipline, especially those laws relating to finance, but also to the achievement of the declared objective of lasting and full fiscal consolidation, which I think contributes to that goal by one and another group of laws. We have today a fairly large set of laws – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Deadening of Monetary Obligations in Commercial transactions, Proposal for a Law on Legal Payment, Entrepreneurs and Physical Persons, Proposal for a Law on Specific Conditions of Sale of Certain Immobilities in the Property of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement. We have two amendments and a supplement to the financial contracts relating to the European Investment Bank's loan, as I said two draft laws regarding the state administration, i.e. the maximum number of employees and the register of employees that it has proposed, i.e. as a proposal from the Government, Deputy Prime Minister Kori Udovicki. I'll focus more on these financial laws as much as time allows. Unfortunately, we have limited time, only 20 minutes, so I'm going to try to say something about all the laws. In the second part of the debate, my colleague, I believe, will continue where I stand. First, I would like to say a few words about the Law on the settlement deadlines in commercial transactions that Minister Vujovic spoke of to a large extent as an important law. I share that same opinion as the minister, that this is an extremely important law, the law that we passed in the previous meeting at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in December 2012, with the beginning of validity since 2013. precisely with the idea of resolving the problem of payment, i.e. bringing payment in order, to address the problem of growing indifference in the economy and, in the end, to harmonize our legislation with the legal assets of the EU, i.e. with a directive adopted in 2011, Directive 2011/7, which was adopted on 16 February 2011, and in relation to which all EU Member States had an obligation to harmonize by 16 March 2013. So, we have quite harmonised our legislation with this directive at that time, and it is obvious that the very fact that the EU had the need to adopt one of these directives shows that Serbia was not the only one who at that time faced the problem of late payments, or that it was one, if nothing else, continental phenomenon, if not a global phenomenon. It is common, and the EU, that they had a problem with late payments, what we do not have in common, or what it did to Serbia at that time, is that it was a late payment leader. At the time of the adoption of this law in 2012, the average time of payment in EU countries was 40 days, and at the same time in Serbia the average time of payment was 134 days, three times more than in EU countries, and if you will, twice as much as the average of the former Yugoslavia countries, i.e. the countries of the region where it was 69 days. This law at first gave quite a good result, i.e. there have been some improvements and I must say that apart from being the leaders of the number of days of late payments, we were, some of the results were more defeated because in some sectors of payments we were late even for over 200 days. So it's clear as a day that at that time the passing of one of these laws was simply imperative. The law prescribed payment deadlines, according to the minister, between businesses, between private sector entities, but between private sector entities and public sector entities, and thus should create assumptions that the economy would restore lost liquidity, which should have contributed to stronger economic growth. However, in practice it proved that things didn't work as well as we expected at the first moment, because I say, he started to give good results, but then after that these results, they kind of went back to some starting position, and to that, the competent ministry pointed out the entire interested public, so on. "Staj holdersi", I suppose, is one of the very important reasons, and there are other reasons why it has decided to make changes and supplement this important law. What is first as one of the problems, which I would point out, is, I must admit that I, and I believe many others, are unclear why, at the very beginning, when certain deadlines are prescribed by law, therefore, payment deadlines, why the coverage was not complete, or why the public sector entities are not covered at the same time. In that sense, the SDPS Group welcomes this coverage of the public sector by this law and considers it a solution and a purpose, and if you want to be quality and absolutely correct. If the legislator were really right, which extends the scope when it comes to this law, I believe that there are quite a number of examples and I would single out only two who have fallen for my eye. One concerns the payment deadlines of the public sector, and the data from the Ministry of Finance's website, I cannot say responsibly, whether this refers, since this is not explicitly stated on the site, to the late payment of the public sector to the private sector or to the public sector or to everyone together, but I am sure that the results are not dramatically different about anyone. So this official data suggests that the public sector is on average late for over 200 days, and there are some public sector representatives who are late for over 600 days and that the value of these payments is over nine billion dinars in delays. Another example of which I would point out and what I think is very important, and respected colleagues, MPs, but also citizens who watch this transmission, because I believe that many remember, is an example of the state-owned company "Budacian" from Požega, which was in front of a total collapse 10, 15 days ago. In fact, this company has some electricity debt in 2010, where some new payment dynamic was created in the meantime, but at one point the company was unable to respect that payment dynamic. The power was shut down and at that point, this company had 1400 tons of its entire frozen range, which threatened to fail. This company, for citizens' information, is in the privatisation process with very good chances of coming out of the process with a new owner, i.e. to continue to function and respect, hopefully positively, in the future, and at one point it threatened total destruction, i.e. workers find themselves on the street and their families become social cases. So if there hadn't been a reaction from the state in time, which I welcome in that sense, that company would have failed. What I want to point out, as a point, is that it's not the state's job to find ad hoc solutions to these problems, although of course when it comes to them, it has to react. The job of the state is to make assumptions that such problems never occur. And in that sense, I think this is what I was talking about is very important. The second problem, which I noticed, which was also referred to by the minister, related to the still current legal solution, concerns the practical control of the implementation of this law, and that is why it seems to me, at some point, to cease to produce the right results. Therefore, it is obvious that one serious analysis concludes that it is not well-defined who will oversee the implementation of this law and certain changes have been made which I think are completely correct, because they are going towards monitoring, or monitoring of the implementation of this law, by those who have the best capacities, which are most experienced, which are ultimately technically technologically capable of doing so in the most qualitative way possible. And in this respect, it is a completely correct solution that the Ministry which had previously been responsible for overseeing business entities, when it comes to this law, shall transfer jurisdiction to the tax administration which clearly has far better capacities for such a thing, and, on the other hand, for the public sector, whose supervision is now centralised, shall transfer jurisdiction to a budgetary inspection which is otherwise involved in the supervision of the public sector, while the vaults from now on will practically simply collect information and forward it to the competent authority or to the budgetary inspection. In that way, we're discharging vaults that won't have to deal with something that, I say, under the circumstances, they're not part of the job and they didn't have enough human capacity at all, if anything. With these two law interventions, which I would like to single out as the most important, we believe that another step will be taken in fulfilling the promises made by the government, which is the fight against the gray economy, indifference and financial indiscipline, which should contribute to the permanent sustainability of public finances. Finally, I think it is important to say that the adoption of these amendments and the addition of laws at the same time and our international obligation, in the first place, is an international obligation to comply with EU directives, because these amendments, as said by the Minister or perhaps one of his colleagues on the Committee, after consulting the European Commission, have concluded that we are fully harmonised with the relevant directive. In addition, some of the other laws we are talking about today, especially the Public Procurement Act, are being passed precisely because of the importance of harmonising with EU directives, but we also change some of the other laws we are talking about today, let's say the Public Debt Act. A few words on the draft law on the payment of legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons who do not carry out their duties. As you said, this law regulates issues that are not covered by the Payment Services Act. The Payment Services Act, if I am not mistaken, was adopted last December, it began to apply from 1 October 2015, or 1 October of this year, and for the reason that certain issues are not covered by it, we were practically obliged to make one such legal solution, because otherwise it would have happened that there was a certain legal vacuum. This legal vacuum would arise in that section concerning the termination of the Law on Payments and there are some discrepancies seen, i.e. there are certain things that are abolished by the expiry of this Act, which are not provided for by the Law on Payment Services. This law, therefore, in the fruit of the Payments Act creates conditions for strengthening competition in the market for payment services, i.e. in the market for payment services, by creating assumptions for the emergence of new payment service providers, i.e. as opposed to the so far-called solutions which, under the circumstances, had a monopoly or a duopol, however you will, banks and mail, now new solutions arise, i.e. the possibility of creating new legal payment service entities which so far had no right to do so. As the ministers have also said, the legal obligation to open a current account for legal persons and entrepreneurs, to pay through these current accounts, to pay cash market payments to that account, so to complete business through those accounts, which is to function as a result of the planned fiscal consolidation, i.e., the increase in fiscal discipline, and on the other hand, we give the possibility to natural persons who do not act to open current accounts to carry out certain transactions and, which is very important, to carry out electronic money transactions through them. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt, as I said, when I spoke about the Law on the settlement of monetary obligations in commercial transactions, and this law came about as a result of certain commitments we made during the negotiations with the IMF, but I think that in any case and how important it is and is in a certain way something that adds up to the 2015 budget that we adopted at the end of last year. I will quote your words, Minister, you said, I remember, in the debate then – everything that was below the line is now above the line. I'd say you'll correct me if I'm wrong, that's actually the key to what we're talking about today. So, these changes, we practically stop with one very bad practice that we've had for years, which is that we have non-transparent responsibilities for which guarantees were given by the state, which were most often shown below the line and which were in one unproductive way defined. What's the point of this law? The point is to change the way in which the state can appear as a guarantee. The state will no longer be able to appear as a guarantee to local self-government, public enterprises for their current business or improve current liquidity, but will only be able to appear as a guarantee for those things that make a long-term contribution to economic growth, which are capital investments. The end result should be, that is, the ultimate consequences, first of all, the relaxation of the expenditure side of the budget, and then we need to stabilise through all these changes to a short to medium term, and then start to reduce the percentage participation of public debt in GDP. When it comes to the Law on Special Conditions of Sale of Certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia, speaking of immovableities, in the extreme case, the property of the Republic of Serbia and their management which proved to be bad, to remind fellow MPs as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the president of our party Rasim Ljajic, but the entire SDPS for years pointed to the lack of a list of state property, the existence of a major problem where we may not be fully aware of the situation. In the 2014 campaign, we talked about some ideas on how to put this property into operation, i.e. to stop doing business, or manage in a non-domestic way. We have suggested that assets that are not in any function, i.e. which is excessive, that under extremely favourable conditions for entrepreneurs, small farmers or socially endangered families, because we simply think that we have to stand in the way of one paradoxical situation in which today, not rarely, we have a case that there is a certain state-owned property that is not in any function, or that in some way represents a cost for the state, if nothing else, then because it loses value, and that there are state bodies, especially agencies, which rent space, regardless of the excess immovableity that the state has, which pay at extremely high prices. So this is a very serious area that needs to be resolved in one permanent way by adopting certain reform laws, which we have already worked on, but also by establishing a serious database that will deal with this problem, that is, to address this problem. I must commend, in that sense, the Directorate for E Administration, but also the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia who are working on the implementation of this software, i.e. the establishment of this database, which, as far as I am aware, should be completed by the end of July of this year and afterwards, should begin to enter data into the database and thus investors have the right information about what the state of Serbia has of property, but that citizens can at the same time in a transparent manner check how to manage the property of the Republic of Serbia. I expect that it will eventually come to this, that we will have one serious, one serious database with all the property data owned by the Republic of Serbia. In the meantime, of course, we have to take some steps because this process is going to last, to put into operation what we know at this point exists, and we know that it is not managed in the best way possible. The State auditor said that this property that we know therefore exists and is leased, is very often leased at non-market prices or leased so that the tenant practically does not pay that property. Well, I'd say that in that case, it's a far better solution to put that property into use in a more functional way, i.e. sell it, and I think it's a first step towards achieving the goal of better governance of state property. After all, Mr. Mijailovic said on the board that someone who buys this property will have to start paying certain taxes, contributions, so it will start in a certain way that at this time, which is not being done domestically, will start to give some positive financial effects on our overall financial system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33292	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33293	Let me just say it one more time. So the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will support all these laws. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33294	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33295	I thank the chairman. Ministers, distinguished members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support all these laws in the area of finance in the day of voting, from the field of state administration. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the Law on the Maximum Number of Public Sector Employees. The aim of this law is to reduce costs and increase the quality and efficiency of the state administration. It is quite clear, Mrs. Widowsky, that we have reached the red line, that this law was absolutely necessary. I expect that it has clear criteria on the basis of which local self-government will carry out the rationalisation of the state administration by 2018 and that it will be implemented under this law absolutely within the time limit and as it commands in all segments of the state administration. What is necessary in addition to rationalization, I would not use that term to reduce the number of employees, because I believe that, in addition to reducing employment, we, what you have said and the bill in general, are about to paint, but with this law and the rationalization of the state administration, need modernization. I expect, in the next period, that practically these two segments will be parallel, so as a state parallel to rationalization and modernize our state administration, because that's the only way we're going to get to that efficiency that we need. As far as financial laws are concerned, they are absolutely focused on the consolidation of the financial system. I will briefly say about the Law on the Making of Payments of Legal Persons, that the Proposer stated in his explanation that this Payment Services Act ceases to apply practically until 1 October, that this law requires overcoming that legal gap and having a new legal basis. In my opinion, it is good that this law includes solutions and the Law on payment services that have proved effective in the practice so far. I believe that in this law, the two provisions are the most important in Articles 2 and 3. It is very important that current account owners, paying service providers, or that all payment transactions are made through the current account and that practically cash has as little as possible. That's our goal, and I think we're going with this law to that end. I think it's a good solution, too, that banks, without a fee of 600,000 dinars, pay money without compensation, and nothing less important is a ban on the reconciliation of mutual monetary obligations and the claim of asignation, i.e. compensation, or in some other way that knows the Law of Bond Relations. I think it's a way of preventing trustees from playing, and above all, the state as a trustee based on tax debts. As for the changes proposed in the Law on Restraint, I think it should finally put an end to debt indefinitely, to this vicious circle, that it should come out of this vicious circle in which we are as a society and as a state. Of course, there should be members and members of the public sector who have been excluded in some way so far. Three years ago, we passed this law, but we didn't simply put an extension into it into the public sector. I think the agreement with the IMF reached that this law also regulates deadlines for the settlement of monetary obligations in commercial transactions between legal entities belonging to the public sector, which has not been the case so far. There's a difference in time. It is 60, not 45 days, which is the general deadline in the law, and it is good that the control of the implementation of this law will be carried out by the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Office of the Ministry of Finance, which will have the authority to file misappropriations in the event of breach of the provisions of this law, and the Office of the Treasury will, somewhere, represent the service of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Department of Budgetary Inspection with the information it will provide, or will provide information on the outstanding obligations of public undertakings. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I would say in a newspaper, that Serbia's parliament will soon, too, that the members of the GOPAK with the Finance Committee have initiated the introduction of a portal based on which MPs and employees of parliament will also monitor budget control, i.e. the cost and income side, and I think that this is also a major shift in the control function of the National Assembly of the RS. As regards the proposed Law on specific conditions of sale of certain immovableities, the idea is that this rationalisation should also be carried out and that the state should in some way be free from the property that is being used irrationally, that it should be sold and that the State register should be increased thanks to that income. What's the problem is that as a state, we don't have a reliable, fully developed inventory of our own assets. I think that's a big problem. We have different data. The problems we are facing in this area are also being warned by the DRI, which for years back shows that the state does not have all the immovableities listed yet, and therefore we do not have any information on how much it really is worth to the assets that we have. The directorate estimated that the state owned about six billion euros in the area of immovableity, while the DRI found that the value of that property in the 2012 final account was as much as 20 billion euros, and the restitution networks show that with the facts they have, the property is sold before completing the property records. These are really problems that we need to solve in the next period. Although the Property Directorate on its portals has indicated public publications transparently that it is asking the user for information on the list of assets, some final figures and final data have not yet occurred. When it comes to achieving an optimal financial effect for the state, it may also be necessary to consider the idea of not going to a closed sale process and thus favouring current tenants, rather than simply offering real estate on the open market via auctioned sales. When I mention the tax administration as the authority responsible for establishing the market value of immovableity, I would like to inform you that the New Serbia parliamentary group intervened with several amendments, and in this case with the amendment in Article 6(1). The bill, with a desire to make the text of the law more precise and simple for interpretation and application. The amendment proposed that the tax authority of the local self-government unit, whose territory is the subject of sale, be solely responsible for establishing market value, using an analogue solution in the recently adopted Law on Construction Land Conversion. The proposed law is seen as a chance to fix the situation to a large extent when it comes to immovable property records, because the current tenants, in accordance with the provision in Article 7, will have a fairly short deadline, from 30 days from the date of entry into force of the law, to address the directorate with a request to buy the immovable property they are currently using and to declare with valid papers, which prove their property to the tenant. Of course, it is also good that in this case the tenants must previously have all their financial obligations settled. I just want to point out one thing, that in 2012, looking for a directorate based on unpaid rents for locals, offices, garages and purchases of apartments amounted to $180 million. When I mention the provision in Article 7. Bill of laws, I have to ask if the state has a plan B in this case? What happens if you don't register enough tenants within the scheduled time limit? In that case, will the status quo remain in force, or will the found state change in some other way? I repeat again, I think it was a better solution to go to an open sales process, because there is a real danger that the entire process of alienated immobilized immovable property would be largely unthinked unless we had an adequate response from the tenants. Another detail fell into my eye. Article 8(3) states that the Directorate, after obtaining feedback from the Agency for Restitution and the Tax Administration, will inform the tenant whether it fulfils the conditions laid down in the law, as well as the date on which the real estate contract is concluded. I see indifference here, and it is in that if the tenant of a certain immovableity addresses the Directorate with a request for its purchase, it would normally be within a reasonable period of time to be informed of its price, which was of course determined by the competent authority. Because how can you access the conclusion of a purchase contract without the customer himself being familiar with its most important elements, which is the price? Since we're talking about real estate as the subject of the purchase, it's certainly a serious number that, for such a short time, from a month, two or three, can be very few potential buyers who can practically prepare. Finally, I would like to ask another question, and it concerns the property of the Serbian Army. The bill states that the subject matter of sale, in accordance with its provisions, cannot be military objects. However, I have found in the advertisements of the Directorate that more than 20 military complexes that are not necessary for the functioning of the Serbian Army have been advertised for alienation in the past month, so it is clear that a fundamental difference has been made between the assets of the Army that can be sold and the one that cannot possibly be. In any case, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support these draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33296	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The Word has the head of DS MPs, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33297	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers, we have here a set of several laws that are being passed again quickly, in the middle of the summer, without any more serious public debate, with the obvious desire of the authorities to bury these things under the thick layers of memory as soon as possible, and that no one knows in September what you have done here today. What you are planning to do, I will only talk about two things, one is the dismissal of 9,000 citizens of Serbia from the public sector, and the other is this law that allows tenants to buy property from the Serbian state. The first law I'm going to talk about is this law, let me simply call it a law firing 9,000 citizens of Serbia from the public sector, without public enterprises. Public enterprises are not being treated here, i.e. This law does not apply to employees of public enterprises. It's true that certain quotas are at the bar. It is true that you now know the percentage of who should have employees in local administrations. It's true we've had a similar thing up until now, so she didn't respect herself. It is true that it is good that we have a ban on public sector employment, but it is also true that your authority does not adhere to it. It is also true that, respected Serbian citizens are preparing to fire 9,000 employees and 9,000 families to throw on the street, while Sinisa Mali is receiving 1,000 communals. It is true that you receive 125 people in the “Electroshumadia” within a day’s work relationship. It is true that in every local public utility, for example in Novi Sad, Nis or Kragujevac, there are no more people sitting, sitting on each other's heads. It is also true that previous authorities have done so, but I repeat, you are chosen to be better. I keep asking you to be better than yourself, and you can't do that, you're in no condition to do that. How are you going to explain this inconsistency? What about Belgrade's 1,000 new commies, while firing 9,000 people from the public sector, from education and health care? That power, respected colleagues and respected minister, who rests on the release of maids and maids in hospitals, that power has no perspective, no perspective whatsoever. Do you know what they're doing, distinguished colleagues? They're gonna fire the maids and maids from our hospitals, and they're gonna put people in, that's what they're gonna do. Women who are going to clean up there for the 7,000 welfare benefits they're getting from Vulin. That's what you came up with. This is the future you believe in – you will work for social assistance. Nine thousand people are going to the street, nine thousand families will receive severance and compensation, it is true, which they will spend to pay back old debts, because Serbia, I repeat, is eating on the line, ladies and gentlemen. When they eat that, my question is, what's going to happen to these people? He's going to go to the private sector? Well, don't make us laugh here. This is the end, gentlemen. There's no way out of this. Whoever does this thing, and this is just the beginning of the layoffs you've prepared, there's nothing left to hope for. Not to talk about companies in bankruptcy, so when they join up with these 9,000, let's say the people of the Vršački Vineyards Union. They got people severances because they pointed to irregularities in their company. “Winner vineyards” if you fail, then you have no idea how to do anything other than open elevators. Nine thousand people. On what criteria will 9,000 people be determined? He doesn't write anywhere, he writes percentages, he writes allocation. It doesn't say by what criteria. Come on, let me suggest a criterion. Some of those nine thousand are a fraction, a small part, an advance of 50,000 you've received since you've been in power. Here, not from the Democrats, start from yours. Let me suggest one more thing. Why don't you go through all the temporary and occasional contracts where the army of people is working for you today, the army of your people. Can any of you dare go to Belgrade Airport? So go see what's going on out there. How many people did they take? Where are they going to fly? They'll fly in history when you fall from power, that's where they'll fly. I have to tell you that it was done without the criteria, that it was done in a hurry, that the hot potatoes were given to the Udovici Minister to explain again in the Assembly something that cannot be explained other than sentences - we have to because of the market, we have to because the state is a bad employer. That's not true. That's not true. Like the state can't be a bad titler of ownership. That's not true. He could be a bad manager. What you're doing is, I say, one quiet, shy way to follow that doctrine of yours and follow the doctrine of neoliberalism and privatization and everything else and layoffs and savings and everything else you do. That's what you're geniuses at, because it's not what you're applying to, it's what you do to citizens. And now that we have a law like this and someone dares to ask why, by what criteria, 9,000 employees in the public sector of the Republic of Serbia are less and less employed than in EU countries and EU candidate countries. Less. You were talking about seven hundred and a few thousand in the public administration, and now it's 500,000. So you were saying that, I don't know, the previous governments fired 600,000 employees, and it fell below 400,000, even though one too many. There's one too many. I agree with that. You know I don't ablimate anyone. It's just that you can't be better, and I'm already scared, and I have a anger that you can't be better. That's the problem. How much would the citizens of Serbia look forward to if instead of these 9,000 there would be 9,000 employees for the competition, without a membership card of any party. In Serbia where party employment is a criminal act, as they suggest, it would cheer Serbian citizens to see justice, to see an equal chance, to see equality in a country where below 2% of working children go to university, to see some equality, where over a million Serbian citizens have nothing to eat. Today in Serbia, not because you cut wages and pensions, but we have 9,000 human fates that none of you will want to explain, but that you will only talk about having too many employees. And where are the people? Where are they going to work? That's our common question, there's no party colors. What's gonna happen to them? What's this market that's going to hire a waitress from the clinic center? Where's that woman gonna work? I'll tell you - nowhere. Nowhere. They're gonna be chasing social aid, which Vulin collects through work hours, and the kids have to get confirmation that they go to school every day, so there's not one dinar missing. You have introduced for the first time in European history that the social category is a market category. Well done. I haven't seen this before, really. A law that will allow 1,800 people in Nis to lose their jobs and thus bring them closer, for example, to the city of Nis, 40% of the unemployed. Someone wants to shut it down, get everyone to Belgrade or abroad. For example, if I don't talk about smaller municipalities, while we're here discussing nine thousand, distinguished colleagues, I know that you support me here, I know that you also condemn it, some people at the bar today are receiving people through a party in a working relationship, day-to-day, at jobs that I can't do in any way, by any standard to justify, the Honorable Minister, I can't. How do you explain that the assistant mayor of Novi Sad has over 10 assistants, so every assistant has a deputy assistant, so these are all party people, that's all the money of Serbian citizens. No matter what parties they're from, everyone pays for it. Why didn't you stop it? Why didn't you set clear criteria? Why wasn't party employment the main target of your blade? What you hit first is the people you brought in. There's your strength and consistency. I'd be the first to applaud that. Believe me, I don't care what party you're from. That would prove the political strength of your distinguished party. Like this, let's put Mrs. Widowsky on, let her do it somehow. Nine thousand is just the beginning. You'll fire Serbia. For you, the accounting item is a citizen of Serbia who is on the budget. That's the philosophy. It's a toxic neoliberal capitalist doctrine. It's a clean cost. Then we come to the next law - property. What do we need state property for? Let's fill the budget a little bit, the IMF said to fill the budget, you guys watch that criterion. Who chose the IMF? Who voted for them? Did you vote? Have your people voted for the IMF in Krupnje? No, I don't. They voted for the Wolf, and the Wolf should listen to his constituents. He's the Prime Minister of my Republic. He should not listen to Mary Dragi and the people of the European Commission about our budget, which we voted for. A law that allows the tenant of state property, which you didn't list, for which you don't know what it is, for which you don't know how much it's worth, which is 30 times the same property written down. You don't know what we have, like a state. We don't know what we have, as a state. No government has ever done that. Well, for three years you've been in power, I guess you could have appointed Director of the Republic Property Directorate and brought, as I know, Veroljub Arsic, he would have done well. Here, I say it really positively as an example. Jovicic could do that, too. I say the same thing positively. So, I don't think it's offensive. So you take it, write down what the Republic has, and then let's see what we do with the property. And like this, without a tender, beware, by direct contract, of the tenant's initiative, without public bidding, you sell apartments, bars, garages, property of the Republic of Serbia to the tenant, with 25% reduction for investments that determine through the procedure, therefore, is determined through skill, up to 25%, based on investment. All right. But what does that mean? What state alienates its property? Greece? Well, we're Greece, gentlemen. So look what you're doing. I'm just curious about one thing. I'm saying this really in a positive way. I'm just curious about one thing. Dear fellow you smile, tell me - why is there no website in the bill, no clear list of who are the tenants who are going to buy these properties? I'd like to see their names, say. I know you, too, dear colleague, would like to see their names. This is positive, you'll agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33298	Please, Mr. Stefanovic, don't talk to your colleagues. You know very well that, according to the Rules of Procedure, you can only address me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33299	Okay, I'll focus on you. I'll look forward to you. So why no public competition? Why isn't there a website? Why can't we see at every moment, every day who bought those properties, what's that person's name and last name? Who are these people? I want to see it. It's like the Law of Origin and Property, an urban legend, every 15 days it's announced, and it's -- oh, well, we're not going to have all the connected faces. Well, not in the last ten years, just now. No, actually, pro futuro, just for the future. What do you think, nobody sees what you're doing? Well, of course every citizen of Serbia would suspect this law, to set someone up to buy state property, like it was for tycoons, conversion. It's a dangerous thing for Serbia's future. I'm asking you to consider, it's not too late for this thing to back down. Who are the people, who are the tenants, who are going to buy bars and apartments? What's their name? Where do these people work? What companies? How did they get the property? Who authorized them? When they took the lease, under what authority, under what minister? And that we know. Let's see who gave it to them, and then let's see, even more interesting thing, who's letting them buy it now. Look at that, no one's letting them buy it, now they're gonna let them buy it. That's what I'd like to see. Thank you for your patience and for your time, if you can answer certain questions. I think we really have these laws in front of the congregation. Without enough debate, too quickly, in a speedy procedure, by emergency procedure, it's unclear why. It's unclear what we're gonna get from this. It is unclear what a burden it is to know that someone with a primary and secondary school in a public enterprise, let's say the EPS has a higher salary than surgeons in this country. When we know that the people who are going to be damaged are already overrun, when the middle class in a country where unemployment is the biggest problem of this country. Absolutely the biggest problem is unemployment. It is normal that when the government comes here to give us a very broad display of both social measures and incentives and anything else when it comes to nine thousand fates. Instead, we heard professional, comprehensive, but don't be angry, phrase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33300	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33301	I know, Mr. Chairman, that someone would like to be in Belgrade too, Athens and Thessaloniki, and I know that someone would like to make Greece and Siriza of himself. Neither is the most popular, nor is Siriza, nor in front of the ATMs in Belgrade are pensioners in line to raise a few dozen euros a day, which is not enough for them for normal life, for drugs, or for anything. We will not allow such a kind of instability, there is no restlessness, there is no burning, there is no conflict on the streets of Belgrade, and if someone in this hall, who is so skillfully left-wing, has seen it even in a pre-election campaign, and has predicted only Greek scenarios, but also Ukrainian scenarios, but also much more drastic and worse things, just to come to power. Someone here was worried about 9,000 people. It's not 9,000 people because these 9,000 people, three thousand people, retire and leave the public sector with a natural outflow. Because 4. 939 will leave with severances, and what about 400,000 people cashiers, ordinary people, without the severances you fired and you let down the water and you didn't care, for four years, 400 thousand people. There was no Siriz in Greece at the time, there was no leftist in Serbia, who will say what we will do with these people, who could then ask Tadic and Cvetkovic what you are doing with these people. No, he didn't, he did more important jobs, he wasn't left-handed. Is that life in Serbia? Yes, it is. Four hundred thousand people you left without a job, no future, no existence, 400 thousand families. Do these people have children? Who were they sending to work, who were they sending to school? What money did they send to school with? Then you didn't worry, and now you're taking care of, over six thousand people out of four. 939 get severance. On the other hand, no one should ask themselves, and who pays those people in the public sector? Are they in public enterprises, or local self-government, or in an autonomous province? Who pays? Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, by taxes, by economy, they pay. Why don't you ask if they have to pay for a government like this? It's easy to say, so go from the advances, so of course, because you can't say go from the Democrats, because they don't exist anymore. Come on, tell me who supports the DS with this kind of policy that they've been leading and with the policy they've been running for the last 15 years. Show me those people who will say, I'm a Democrats and I support the DS. Well, they're gone. Of course, we'll go from the others. Of course, we'll be on our way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33302	Time, thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33303	He's telling you, which is why he's not...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33304	Three minutes, time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33305	All right, just one sentence, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33306	Okay, I'll give him...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33307	You said, why didn't you list? Well, we haven't listed in three years, and you haven't spent 15 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33308	I'll give the line longer and Stefanovic, because I talked to Zivkovic, it's my failure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33309	Thank you, Madam President. I don't know what I've earned from this replica, since I didn't mention or appear to be a party, if I did apologize, I mentioned some other colleagues. Well, you know how, you're weak or what you'd say is a thin attempt to bind violence to what I'm propagating and what I'm looking for. First because our pensioners would probably push themselves in front of an ATM if they had anything to raise, but they don't have any thanks to your authority. You know, and 70 euros a day, 60 euros a day is a mental directory for them, Mr. Babic, if you didn't know, most thanks to your macro and micro-economic measures and pension cuts. That's the first thing. Two, don't insult the people who voted for the DS, you don't have that period. You know, you can't measure what you're talking about right now. It's called your subjective feeling, like when you know you're warm and hot or cold. So how can you know that? It's simply something you think it is, but you insult a significant part of Serbia's citizens, regardless of what you think, and that's mildly incorrect. You know, I don't insult people who vote for you they have the right to. They're making less sense and they find meaning in voting for you, but that's something else, because the meaning lies in fulfilled promises and a better life, now it's gone. Now it's gone, it's a fact. And that archaeological policy of yours, that's what we're talking about, what it was without any looking forward to has led us into this situation, because you're looking back and forth, and we're hitting our heads against the lamppost. That's Serbia today. Okay, sorry it's not 9,000, 6,000. The same question is, what are we going to do with these people? Where are they going to work? How are you going to secure them? By what criteria are you going to fire them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33310	Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33311	You know, when someone's been talking about the '90s for 15 years, and then he's calling, or he's criticizing why someone's been calling for the last seven, eight years of the perditional power of the former regime, then I really don't get it. We've heard for 15 years that they were wronged in the '90s, and for all possible choices, the excuses were in the '90s. So don't talk about that legacy, because you've been hooking up with it very often, so you're catching up with each other right now. As to how support is measured, 6.09% is your result in the previous elections, and 5.86% in Vojvodina. In that larva democracy, 5.86%. That's not what I said, that's not what my colleague Martinovic said, that's what the citizens and the citizens who live in Serbia said. It bothers you, you have a problem with this relationship, so the best people in Serbia know who they want, who they don't want and whose authority they live better or worse. On the other hand, if you want to and show that democracy and how to go from yourself, why don't you go from yourself. Why don't you show and write down a list of employees in the AP Vojvodina and how many people have been employed in the past 15 years. Well, is there someone who's got a job and his neighbor's a promotion? Well, you didn't give it either, let alone be a member of another political party. And, that was a little bit, so even the AP Vojvodina funds, you were emptying your budget by just giving members of the DS. Well, only the Democrats were involved in humanitarian work in Vojvodina. No one else could get the money, and the condition was a member of the DS. Come on, let's write down some of those people. Come on, let's see how much you've burdened the Duke's Water, the Duke's Forest. How much you've burdened public enterprises and how many employees have grown.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33312	Thank you. Let's move on. Which one of the authorities wants a word? I ask the authorities to answer and not ask after every speaker if anyone wants to speak. Because we can't plan a session if no one wants to. Then let's go to the speaker list. The first one is Zoltan Peck. I ask nicely, please, and the MPs to participate in the debate, do not wave your hands, nor shout, but on my call I ask the authorized to apply. I'll give you my word, but I'm really asking you to untacticate it to the unconscious, but to answer it. The word is Veroljub Arsic. [[Dejan Radenkovic, from the scene, throws something, but you can't hear it.]] Do not log out when the order does not fit. I'm not telling you, please don't yell at the messenger, I'll have to give you a warning, too, if you yell at the chairman. Here you go, Mr. Arsic. [[Dejan Radenkovic, from the scene, throws something, but you can't hear it.]] I'd ask you not to insult me, since I'm the same with you, so I can't fight back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33313	I didn't log out of some tactics, but I understood that a fellow who belongs to a smaller parliamentary group has a primary, but now that's another problem. I listened very carefully to my colleagues when they talked about this set of laws and yet, when it comes to some discussions, I can't help but wonder. So we have a story and we're asking ourselves what we're going to do with public sector employees. I agree. No fate, and one man loses his job is hard, let alone when it's with 4000, 5,000 or 9,000 people, but let's take a look at something else. What does it take to keep the state from firing those workers? He's got to have a business, somebody's got to work, somebody's got to make money, somebody's got to make a new value. They don't mind citizens, colleagues from the DS, they just don't want the party to run Serbia anymore, because they were left without their factories that supported the state administration employees. At a session of the Finance Committee, my deputy, whom I highly appreciate, he attacked, also from the DS, a way of calculating the value of the property that could be sold under this law. When a man thinks so, I'm just asking another question – what was the difference between the DS between social property and the state property that I'm now defending. That social, that wasn't ours, that's what we sold 50 times cheaper than it really cost on the market. Then we'll replace the thesis, how and what to do under some of these circumstances. We can talk, and it's always a popular topic, reducing pensions, cutting salaries in the public sector. I ask one more question, and what fills that budget, let him say – citizens pay taxes, no, it's full of business. The economy is full of budgets, but it's not there. If someone expects one government to be able to solve it in a year, two or three, gentlemen, your years should have been destroyed, and it's much easier to destroy than to create. Now he had such laws and we're not happy about them, they're very extorted, they're trying to solve something the right way. We're talking about tycoons, which some of the apartments are going to buy, the tenant of the apartment lives, and we forgot how the flats of the '90s sold out, and no one was angry about it then. Who were those apartments going to? Most of the time, those people who lived in them. There's no big difference between social and state property, at least there wasn't, just because of some constitutional restrictions and how we managed, so we had some social property. It was a state, so I'm surprised at these discussions. Come on, give us an alternative. Tell me what this government can do to keep these people from being fired. Let's look at, with public debt, what is, 66%, 68%, a public debt that is not the government's fault. I think 135 billion is just interest, not to be in debt. So 135 billion is interest, that's about 3% of GDP, interest rate 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, and somebody's funny, and I don't. Public procurement law. I expected at least someone to say something about this law, but it's not a political current law right now, and what if we don't look at what it says in that law?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33314	Ambassador, just talk to me. To me as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33315	I'm talking to MPs, to no one in particular. All right. Why has none of the colleagues read more carefully the Commission's report on the protection of rights in public procurement procedures, and this commission, through our public, has literally been credentialed through public information funds. So they solve 2400 items, 100 items a day. One Member of the Commission 15 cases, which have 20, 30, 40 and 100 pages of reasons. Has this Commission achieved the purpose of existence? Yes, it is. Is the Public Procurement Act abused? It was the only problem of the Public Procurement Act that was brought into this assembly for over a year and a half. There is only one problem, only one flaw, is being implemented in Serbia. You have professional applicants complaining about the procurement procedure, and even go to negotiate with the bidders, to withdraw their appeal for some funds. That's why we had to change the law a little bit. Therefore, the process will be even faster, even more efficient, and no one will be able to blackmail a public worker or performer at any single moment. I can only tell you that even though these are amendments and amendments to the law, we are fully aware that nothing is more, that nothing is perfect, that we should continue to regulate legislation in the areas of public procurement, because we are never satisfied with the quality of the law, because we at SNS want to have the best laws in the world that are implemented in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33316	Thank you. MP Stefanovic, there are really no conditions, there was nothing extravagant, nor was it mentioned in my question, he said that he addressed the generals to the MPs, has the right to explain – respected fellow Members, etc. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: The party is mentioned. ) Dr Dusan Vujovic has the advantage of proposing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33317	I want to come back again, as if we were in the previous session of July, June of the month, May of the month, March of the month, December of the month. It repeats the same level of misunderstanding of what we do, social costs, total economic costs and the purpose of the programme. Let me, by whom I know which time, repeat the essence. The key of fiscal consolidation is to remove structural imbalances so that we can get out of this period with a sustainable cost level, and at cost, we think primarily of the long-term commitment that we have, and by structural income what we can count on for the long term independent of short-term oscillations in domestic conuktur and international conukture. There's only a witness to this process, and there's someone who confirms the validity, and we're building a program ourselves. The program's not easy, the program's a tough one. We jumped under the quote, and we agreed last fall. In the programme, the first step was the most painful, and it was the sacrifice that Serbian citizens and citizens always end up carrying the sacrifice, there is no one else in this country but them, and that is to help us take the first step. After that first step, it seems to me, since November of the month, but surely seven months this year, we have achieved two, three times better results than we have committed ourselves and received support from both funds and international creditors and the international community. In all that, I have to say, there's no contradiction here, and it's all expected and foreseen. Whether or not someone likes it, whether it fits the ideological vision of the world, that's another question. So, here's the deal. For what we have invested and achieved so far, there is verified empirical evidence. I won't repeat the results. Results in economic growth, revision from minus 0.5 to zero, to plus 0.5, most likely very nearly results on the fiscal plan. I don't need to say it again, but I'll tell you, with today, on Friday this year, we have a surplus in July, something over one billion. Since the beginning of the year, the deficit has been between 25 billion and 30 billion. If you take from the beginning of the year that about 330 billion per month is at a linear estimate of four thousand billion per year, you have a situation that after seven months is about 2.5 thousand billion billion, 25 billion is 1%. That's three times smaller than Mastricht. This is better than 95% of the countries in Europe, whether we are EU members or not. From the point of view of employment and all the other things are moving better, but it will take a lot more effort and a lot of water to get past Sava and Danube to go back to where we'd like to be, but the results in the processing industry are positive, but the results in returning production to Smederev are positive, but the results on the return of production in the chemical complex are positive and expectations much better than they were last July when I was in this Parliament, that is, on 4 August, confirmed as Minister of Finance. How is this a contradiction with social expectations and employment developments, in the area of determining the necessary and sustainable scope of the public sector? Cory Widowsky will tell you the details, I'm telling you philosophy. We have already installed in the budget the frameworks that need to be allocated to the salaries, how long it takes to retire and we remain in those frameworks. In realisation in seven months and by the end of the year. The people of this country are expecting us to do it, and we're committed to it, and we're going to do it all the way. We can lementate at nine thousand or five thousand, but what matters to me is 7.5 million people, and what do they expect? They expect this country to finally come out five or six times as a winner of the restructuring process, attract third-generation investments, start to create new jobs and show that it is possible in a fair way to solve all the problems we inherited from the past. Therefore, there is no contradiction, nor in bidding numbers, 700 000 is a total public sector, because it includes public enterprises of more than 200 thousand people, and this public sector that we are talking about here is defined in law. It's a total public sector, minus public enterprises. So what we've defined, we should respect. Do not manipulate information that is very clear and very precisely defined in all laws. This isn't the end. This is a start and this is a good start. Serbia is on a good path and has a very good start. Who this ends for, I don't know. For Serbia, this is not the end, and this seems to be a good start for an even better path to the future. Who loses their jobs in the world? Look, we're not the only countries. I don't know, this new left-wing absolutely doesn't understand, especially after the obvious defeat of that left-wing, because the result of that left-wing is an unsustainable level of deficit and debt, and everyone tells you that. There's no need to throw dust in our eyes. We don't need to fool people with completely incorrect empirically unfounded claims. We're not firing anyone. You have to pass on, to delegate responsibility to everyone in the public sector, the private sector is already doing it, what conditions are needed, what jobs are the jobs of the future, which businesses are losing their place on the market. It's something we don't determine, it's the whole world. Therefore, Serbia is trying to combine what we are doing with a combination of changes in the education system, to adapt its labour supply to what future investors expect, to what is being sought in the world, rather than what is lament above the past. There are no more foamers, there are no shrubs. There is a need for people to be able to respond to the labour demand offered by investors who can sell their products in the world and achieve the level of income that people expect. That's true. There is no social utopia in which people can try in the past to verify their knowledge or not knowledge, their work or not work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33318	So no one's answering for a word again? I say it for the public, and you say it any way you want. Can I move on to the list of MPs? (Dejan Radenkovic throws out of place. You haven't heard from me, MP. Except for the noise, there's no concrete work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33319	Obviously, the time has come for me to get some notice, too, but I don't know if I can go with the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament now, because I can't speak to the MPs, or just say the honourable presidents and speak to you, not to the ministers, not to anyone?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33320	Just take the Rules of Procedure. I have no regrets.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33321	As far as I can remember, we Rules of Procedure haven't changed. I've been an MP for seven years, and I know things. I apologize if I'm wrong...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33322	You're wasting your time on something that's not according to the Rules of Procedure, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33323	No, I think it's the order from the smallest to the biggest, but now we're a little bit distracted. Never mind. That's not what the Rules of Procedure says. I will begin, however, with ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, although I may not and may not be allowed to address the Rules of Procedure, I must say that today's package of these nine draft laws represents a somewhat diversified set of legislative improvements that should allow the objectives of reform economic policy to be achieved and that the systemic and long-term problems that exist in those most important segments of our society are solved. The solutions set out in this law are on track for best practice and provide answers to some of the challenges that have arisen in implementing existing laws and are a relief for the economy, but also for the Serbian budget, as it will reduce space for some bad practices. I will pay the utmost attention in this package to amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, but I will start the presentation with two draft laws that define the maximum number of public sector employees and require the creation of an appropriate register of employees, appointed and elected persons with public funds users. I think it's best to start from what's most important right now and what's most attractive, which is to create conditions for the most efficient public sector. As everyone knows, the SPS has never over-employed in the public sector. The public sector, when the SPS dominantly shaped economic and other policies, was significantly smaller in Serbia than today, especially when it was seen as far as privatisation came at the time. Also, it all happened at a time when it began to introduce information technologies. In today's evolutions of the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia, fewer and fewer talk about the staff employed by the SPS in the public sector, and especially about mass employment that was then reportedly carried out. I would like to explain once again, which I have already said in some debates, that we simply must not remain fascinated by saving and not see that we have other outcomes that only require a little more credibility, which we will gain if we show as a society through the necessary seriousness and continuity of development economic policies. We have to look at things dynamically, and the analysis unit has to be our firm and individual. We can't play with big numbers. Only if we understand how public sector employment affects these basic units of analysis, and in particular how it affects healthy companies and the social role of the vulnerable group, can we talk about the synergy of different aspects of economic policymaking. If we ignore solving problems in the area of economy and hope that someone else will solve these problems for ourselves, all budget tightening will, unfortunately, be in vain. The public sector is kind of paradoxical. We have extra employees in some areas, and that is a surplus that is in the eyes of the absence of contributions to our economy and our citizens, and in other places we have an obvious lack of quality employees. I must take this opportunity to commend this brochure, which was delivered to us today just before the session of the Ministry of Minister Kori Udovicki. I think that's what shows clearly where we are and what we need to do. I don't think we have another way. I think that systemic access is the key, and not only to fire several thousand people who are dealing with jobs that can be shut down, but to contribute to the quality of public sector services, but to create a standard of impact and to know exactly what the public sector is and how and in what way it costs to deliver something. Otherwise, we'll get to the paradox where the austerity measures eat the very substance and the meaning of the public sector itself. As far as the SPS is concerned, I don't think there's a solution that's fast, and as in this brochure, you don't have to make anything over your knee. I can tell you that there are no solutions that will be socially unacceptable. There will be no consolidation of the public sector that will have elements of social injustice and the threat of groups living on the edge of existence. We believe and know that the only future of this society in consensus, on sound grounds and in a healthy environment, which we all try to create together. We believe that in partnership, we see the future of this country and that it will only be recognized as that, because it is the only way we can move forward. We also believe in reasonable solutions that result in agreements between both sides. We also believe that we must have agreements and maintain sound competition, and we hope to be a people who are respected in the world because we have something to offer the same. We are aware that we are part of one team and we believe that it is not the best move to fire, but to find mechanisms and assess the effects and thus lead to a proper policy, because the consequences will have an increase in efficiency. We hope that with this law, we will have better solutions and we will think carefully about what the state has to do and how to do these jobs properly. The same goes for other areas. We support what will finally create the conditions to answer many questions since it has long been avoided, and that is, what kind of state do we need and what does it have to do with? We do not need a state that is abstract and falsely potent category that is attributed to its non-existent properties, but rather the state as a set of competent productive policy-makers. We think that the setting that tells us exactly how many people we need and which predicts that these data are not one of the biggest mysteries in Serbia, but the public database creates fertile soils. This is the case in this register, which is the subject of the proposal for this law, and those who work for mediocre wages will be seen clearly and the difference will be seen from those who work for large salaries. And we don't have much choice here, but choice must be extremely logical and moral. It would also be very important to provide for greater sanctions and we have submitted this amendment for those who will want to see for the register as optional or as a register that registers only what someone wants to see and what should not be in the same. So we just have to finally have that register that's real, real and reviewed. However, I would like to go back to the star of today's debate, as I would say, at least as far as I'm concerned, because it's my favorite law and we've had a debate and when we've been bringing it up a few years ago, and even a few months ago when we've been discussing an amendment when we've changed and when I've also said that it's not good to change a member of the law, but to wait for us this year to change and correct those shortcomings that have proved inapplicable when the law was applied. What I have to do, and I am taking the opportunity to point out that what we said back then in the debate and what we pointed out as potential problems and at the beginning of this year, I am pleased and I must commend that this is all that has been implemented in these amendments and amendments to the law and I think that they have been well done and that they will give the right effects after the vote in this House. We all know that we need to have zero tolerance when it comes to corruption, and corruption, whether we want to admit it or not, to look into our eyes, is just lying somewhere in these public procurements. What I couldn't help but say, and the MPs who were there will remember, we've been having an argument for an hour and a half about one amendment to the SPS to publish all public procurement plans on the portal. That's when it was rejected. It was acceptable, but we came to that point today to be the subject of amending and supplementing this law and I am glad and especially that this item was expelled when it comes to "the Official Messenger", and then we claimed it was unnecessary and that these are unnecessary procedures because we have a public procurement portal available to everyone. I have to say that this public procurement plan on the portal is one completely logical step, once again, in the development of a better public procurement system. It is a tool for better planning and for better efficiency and transparency, and I am saying this precisely because we have recently received a DRI report where 73 entities have been audited, and then you can imagine that there have been closed contracts without public procurement procedures of 2.8 billion dinars, which is out of 37% of total irregularity, that we are not talking about public procurement that are not foreseen in the annual procurement plan, or that there are no funds in the financial plan of 16% of 1.23 billion and so billions per billion, and that's what comes together, and I think we're going to bring these new system changes to this as little as possible. The Socialist Party of Serbia, I say once again, and I am particularly glad that we will have a plan on the portal because it is one final technical solution that public procurement will do as the name itself says - extremely public. We know that our partners have great merits for improving the public procurement system, but we will also point out this time that our amendment proposals, as I said, have further improved the law and that when we did the draft, 90% of our suggestions were accepted and I think it says that we are thinking in a similar way and that this is about continuous team work on the same principles. No amendments should be taken tragically, of course, except for those being written – deleted, deleted. I think the amendment of lawmaking is extremely important and at least it's clear to everyone. Secondly, when you want to make the system deprived of the corruption door, sometimes you open a space for strange behaviors and strange lines of business. The public procurement system so far has procedures that are very clearly directed towards preventing negative surprises and irrational spending of funds. As such, there are many built-in mechanisms that protect public funds and citizens' assets, and are an integral part of them mechanisms that allow bidders to defend their interests and citizens if irregularities are observed. Unfortunately, what we couldn't predict is that not everyone thinks in the way of the current majority, that protection mechanisms can turn into blackmail mechanisms. The public procurement market has developed several companies, which in their job description, which is also said by the authorised representative of SNS, and I can say that it is their code in their job description – professional public procurement triggers. It is a business model that comes down to the use of procedures to protect the interests of citizens and businesses, as a way to bring tenders down or postpone. Any downing or delaying the tender costs. It's costing and corruption, especially when efficiency is falsely expressed. But it costs top dollar when the tender goes down for no real reason, when it's obvious that the tender is collapsing so that he can use those procedures written from the point of view of honesty, that I have to say, and not from the point of view of indiscretion, so it's kind of an opportunity to send a message in a sophisticated way – how much it pays you not to do it. Changes that will reduce, but I can't say that it will completely eliminate the possibility of the tendering industry being on call are good changes. These companies aren't alarms. It is a model that reduces its existence to the threat that this will be, as people would say, vo slaughtered because of a kilo of meat. Our weakness is that we didn't predict, but our strength is that we admit mistakes today. Now we've done everything we can to prevent the institution from turning public interest into a mockery. For those of you who think this pathology was easy to predict, I think it's pure demagogy. I'll name one anecdote. In Austria, somewhere in the early '90s, it wasn't a crime to catch fish with high-voltage cables. It's just that people couldn't predict that pathology behind this kind of behavior. It is important to us that this proposal all makes it possible to strengthen the capacity of state institutions to ensure that public procurement is increasingly similar to those in the regulated countries. Only the development of control and controlled bodies can create ground for the realization of the basic wisdom of the states we look up to. It's not a pretentious way to beat bad behavior, it's a certainty that when you see harmful behavior, the system reacts in an infallible and effective way to sanction and punish. So a credible threat is the basis, not the repression, and certainty is the basis of credibility. We would like to move on, because we have stopped developing regulatory bodies when it comes to documents and sectoral and multi-sector teams, i.e. the guy. In other words, I must say, and that we have submitted the amendment, we will have a debate and in particular, when the time comes. I think that we should have a model of an internal plan to prevent corruption in public procurement and to keep it as it was in the previous law and that it must not be generally envisaged by some national strategy, but simply, the government must adopt a plan to combat corruption in public procurement. But I'll talk more about it in detail. We have to have regulatory bodies that sometimes piss us off a little bit because they don't see a bigger picture, but I have to say, so maybe it hit someone, and we don't need people in those bodies who accept functions and then resign. It's the only way we can go forward, in the rule of institutions, not in the rule of people. Ladies and gentlemen, the time we're witnessing is complicated and challenging. It is our desire for reforms to be a matter of consensus, as I have already said. And on the question that something daily is politicized, although the space for diversity is so few that it's only reduced to one narcissism of small differences, we have to learn from our own mistakes, because we didn't know that we were learning from other people's. The worst thing that can happen to us is that we trip again on the same rock, as the old Chinese proverb would say. The system is what distinguishes successful countries and successful governments from those who are not. And there's a system approach here, and only for those who realize it is that the spirit of the law becomes practical. Once again, I must say that our parliamentary group, the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group, gives clear support to laws that bring Serbia closer to standards that make it a well-organised society, which clearly defines the rights and obligations of all, and where common sense and efficiency are the basics and principles on which the economy and the public sector are founded. This set of laws also helps us to plan public finances, as we will have a better framework for budgetary projections and more responsibility in the public sector. We as socialists have always come from the desire to have a responsible society of consensus, whether in opposition or now in position. And we didn't run away from solutions that made us de facto public affairs more complex, and without the benefits that many, without any evidence, attribute to our party and to the people who were appointed, in unembarkable or difficult situations. I thank you for your attention, and we will have opportunities, since I see that a considerable number of amendments have been submitted, I hope that among these over 300 amendments there are really those who want to fix these laws. I think we're going to have a constructive and very professional discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33324	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33325	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I have long sought a word to describe this set of laws and may not like you, but I have chosen the word sunflower. So, the solar system of the Republic of Serbia. You proposed laws that entered the procedure on Saturday. Six laws came here on Saturday. Some of them are also vital to life, to say systemicly. The address minister says to look at the laws, to find the best solution. Mr. Minister, that's all we can do, to look at them, but reading them is very difficult. We, as the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, have given more than 60 amendments together for Serbia, Green Serbia, and it is not "expunged", but constructive amendments with adequate proposals and better legal solutions, but also now we see certain gaps and we think we could give so many more amendments, that we only had one more day. So it's simply unacceptable to propose such serious laws on Saturday without having them on the agenda on Monday. Let's go in order - Law on special conditions of sale of certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia. I renamed him the property robbery law owned by the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the syntagm used here in several places - investment investments, which I assume is your contribution to the new advanced Serbian dictionary, you also said that Serbia has no public property management strategy, that there is a need to disburse the Fund of Assets and that income is achieved in order to meet other strong obligations. But the last line you said in today's address I really can't understand. So, you said – to me last and most important, affirmation of the principles of market value, financial discipline and transparency. Well, where's the public procedure for selling property, if that's the last and most important thing for you? So, all he sells is leases and that's by taxing the administration to assess the value of the facility. Here's an experience from ten days ago. An apartment in the Lord of Jovanovic, owned by the City of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade has decided to sell real estate. The tax administration estimated 9,000 euros. Do you know how much it was sold for? For 39. How can we achieve adequate income and, as you say, fulfil other strong obligations if we don't allow an open-end real estate market game, if you've already decided to sell them? Should we sell them, especially, but since the law is here and will surely be adopted, we're talking about how we do it. So there were two laws. I don't know, Mr. Minister, if you remember those laws. So one was in 1999, the Law on Special Conditions of Sale of Certain immovableities in State Property, which was called "Seselj's Law" and which is more or less similar to this, therefore, intention is similar. The revenues were used to rebuild the country after the bombing. The second is from 2000 -- the Law on the Sale of Certain Immobilities in State Property, in order to settle the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of foreign exchange savings for citizens and loans for economic development in the Republic of Serbia. First, these laws still apply. We've provided for one amendment, since we think you're going to pass this new law, so we can put these two out of force. But it existed in both the first and second laws, even though it was passed in 1999 and 2000, the purpose of the sale of property. For example, this can be done. be the development of agrarians or the provision of credit support for agricultural holdings. We have a situation that finally, I hope, our Agency for Agricultural Payments, our Ministry of Finance and our state system will be accredited for the use of IPARD funds. We have a big problem with how our farmers, i.e. agricultural holdings, to prefinance investments so that they can make return from IPARD funds, and then we predicted that these assets were used for credit support, not for consumption, but for credit support, and that these funds were not spent but were granted various loans which would, of course, be recovered when our farmers, for example. get sick from the IPARD fund. So there's no law or purpose. All it says is that incomes flow into the budget. So we're selling property for public consumption and that's it. But still, what I want to insist on is a sales procedure. At first, we gave the amendment that the law is not called as you have suggested, but that it is called – the law on special terms of sale and the procedure of sale, therefore, to arrange and process the sale of public property, i.e. assets owned by the Republic of Serbia. So everything, we literally changed all the members of the law, in this way to introduce a public competition. I'm asking again -- how do you expect to make as much revenue as possible for the budget, if you don't allow other people to participate in the purchase of the property and thus the property to be sold for a higher price? We agree that the tenant has certain privileges, in terms of the right to prevent the purchase, or if he exemplifies in the end that immovableity, that he is recognised by previous investments, rather than investment investments. This is all, from the amendment to the amendment, envisaged in such a way as to respect what you said, therefore, that it is indeed the most important affirmation of the principles of market value and transparency for you. I have already cited to you the case of an apartment from Master Jovanovic, owned by the City of Belgrade, which was estimated at 9,000 euros and sold for 39 euros. So I ask you a question - why should a value assessment be made by the tax administration? They exist, they're publicly available and I think they're more professional in this job than the people who work in the IRS. Also, when there are previous investments, you stated in the law that the artificial or evaluation of the investment would be carried out by the Belgrade City Art Institute. I don't think, for one, we haven't opened a competition game, so that's what does one who's most favourable, with all due respect to colleagues from the City Hall, so, without wanting to challenge their expertise, but again we're talking about competition and competition, and an even bigger problem -- why force someone from Vranja to do this job that needs to be done by the Belgrade City Arts Institute? How complicated and lengthen the procedure? This is how you challenge all the experts on the list of permanent judicial skills, you also challenge the Ministry of Justice that appoints them. It's just, my question is -- why don't you let the court experts do their job? Finally, the impression is that the law, for all these reasons, is written for someone specific. Just as the law on the abolition of conversion was voted here at the end of 2012, when Minister Velimir Ilic told us that two billion euros were about to enter Serbia, everyone is waiting to be abolished. Of course, there was nothing since the investment, and certain companies were able to make a free conversion of the land they had, and then, for what it was, two and a half years, the conversion was restored because those who had to finish the job had done it. So we're writing the law again for someone specific. The law on public procurement for me is the recognition of the failure of the public procurement system established by this authority. On the pretext of harmonising with the EU's legal assets, which is somewhat done, we, before the deadline required of us, are doing this harmonisation, which is certainly not bad, but we use to fix or better say – use to fix what we said was bad, which we voted against two and a half years ago. The only thing I can hope for right now is that you will finally establish a system of public procurement, that the average duration of public procurement in Serbia will not be 199 days, which is probably the least in the environment and possibly in the whole world. What I'm interested in is what are the criteria for raising value to 500,000 dinars, which the new law will not apply to. Also, what's the criterion for the value below five million dinars to be for small-value purchases? Have you carried out an analysis of how much funds will be spent under the Public Procurement Act, as well as how much funds will the low-value procurement system be applied to? But what I'm more interested in is the question of what is the percentage of failed public procurement. Therefore, how many public procurements have not been made, even though the client had a desire and intention to purchase certain goods and services. And I'm even more interested in where those 600m euros that our colleagues here said they'd be saved here every year because of the new Public Procurement Act, some of them even talked 800 million. We have proposed to build a budget fund where this savings will flow and that it is accurate and clear to show that certain savings have been made and executed. Of course, it was rejected because it was all a mask. Serbia's public debt is growing. Health institutions have neither equipment nor work material, and savings obviously do not exist. And, not to be against all proposals, one change and we support. So, apart from science, education, culture and public procurement systems, we talked about it three years ago, we gave amendments, we explained how devastating it was, but it obviously took this furniture three years to realize that it had to be excluded from the public procurement system. We've given the amendment where we say it doesn't limit to 12 million. There's no limit. So simply for these areas there is no need for the application of the Public Procurement Act. As for the draft law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees, the first question is why does it not apply to public enterprises whose founder is the Republic? So that party employment can continue to continue, my answer, the only one who is more responsive to me, because logic is next. Local self-government has a surplus in the budget, and right now, the generators of the budget deficit are some public enterprises that are excluded by this law and the logic of their exemption just don't make it clear to me. Also, in my opinion, we can talk about it and I'd like to, the larger municipality has more workers. By what logic? So there must be a construction inspector, a traffic inspector. And that's one, you can't take 0.37 of the building inspector. Taking into account the quotas for the cities of Kragujevac, Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, it is clear that these are political quotas and that you have mostly taken care of where the SNS has its mayors. They have not been taken into account the institutions of national importance of which they are the founders of the municipality and, if this law applies, these institutions will have to be closed. Here's a specific question, what do you do with the Resava Cave in Despotovac or the Natural Centre in Svilinc? They're entering this quota. The way you defined it. They also did not include citizens who are on temporary work abroad. You know that a certain percentage of our citizens, especially from eastern Serbia, are on temporary work abroad, and if we take a statistical number, we are in a position to, for example. The municipality of Svilajnac has 23,000 inhabitants, because 8,000 are temporarily abroad, that there are 26,000 voters, and these people, who are temporarily living abroad, are definitely demanding and performing from the birth certificate, and for example, equipment for local infrastructures, etc. It was also not taken into account the level of services that local self-government provides to its citizens. How to make a difference and how to predict discharge in a municipality that has its own public enterprise, for example. for the collection and export of junk, from a municipality that entrusted the business to a private company or to a company that is not a public enterprise. So the law is in that sense inapplicable and imprecise. And here's another reason, so a lot of laws on the agenda. I thought I was talking about three more laws, but unfortunately, 20 minutes have already expired, at least please answer the question I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33326	It's the vice president of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33327	I thank the MP for the opportunity to clarify some of the dilemmas that I am sure this law opens or misunderstandings. It is one of the most difficult explanations we have, and that is not why they are not in the law of the Republic public enterprises, that is understood. The Republic, i.e. public undertakings operate on the principle of business, commercial and the number of employees should be determined under their business plans submitted to the Government for approval. At this point, a good part of large public enterprises is in the process of restructuring and optimising their number of employees through these mechanisms that are suited to companies. The better question is why local public enterprises are involved in a law that should only apply to so-called public enterprises. Public administration, state in terms of functions of non-commercial states. This is a little bit of an apostrophe in my opening statement, I will repeat, it is that we do not have budgetary discipline sufficiently established in Serbia and that at this point, we do not have a better mechanism for controlling the uncontrolled number of employment and in local public enterprises. That's what it's got to be about. We hope that this will happen before this law brings all units of local self-government to the fact that they are already very rational, so that we start to risk, to make mistakes, to look somewhere for extras where there is no excess. At this point, we are convinced that this risk is not threatening us. Why? Because in this law, in the preparation of this law, we have done quite a lot of analysis, we have observed how the number of employees in local self-governments moves, both in administrations and in public enterprises. The MP was right when he said that for the issue, for example, birth certificates, less the same number of employees are needed in both smaller and larger administrations, more specifically in the local self-government unit. The number of administration employees falls slightly by the number of residents with the growth of local self-government. However, the number of institutions, especially the number of employees in public enterprises per capita, has increased to a thousand inhabitants with the size of the place. When we explored this better, we found something that may not always be intuitive, which is that the larger and more urban settlement, the greater the function of the communal, collective that must be done for all inhabitants. In that sense, there is not one perfect criterion, but we have observed all the units of local self-government that are similar to each other, and then, I repeat, from the beginning of my presentation, we said – let's see a fifth of the most efficient, i.e. a fifth of those who employ the smallest number per capita in each of the groups of units of local self-government. There are those who simply provide fewer services, but in that fifth there are the worst few of those 20%, under quotes of the worst, so those who employ the most. And when you look at it, they're a good criterion for something that's reasonable, a rational number of employees for local self-government units, that is, they're a pretty comfortable criterion. They could be more rational, but most importantly, we now have for each group of local self-government units a criterion that all other 80% should weigh. We have time to find a suitable surplus in each of them. Somewhere it will be in one function, elsewhere it will be in other functions but in three years we do not believe that we will come to the risk of any local self-government in the capacity to provide functions. At the end of the line, it is not a bad idea to encourage a number of local self-governments to consider whether they can still function and those who respect the minimum number, to privatise if that is the only reason why some local self-government has a larger number of employees. So we are not putting anyone at risk of cutting off the necessary personnel and functions, and on the other hand we are encouraging change and restructuring and for the first time in the rationalisations that are done in Serbia we are not punishing those who have actually acted rationally. We take them as a role model. It's not the perfect law. This should not regulate the number of employees in public enterprises. This country did not inherit the instruments, did not inherit fiscal discipline, budgetary discipline, the possibility that it did not transform enough services provided locally so that today it could only be based on some standards or only on this discipline to ensure that local self-governments are responsible for their budgets and do not spend on employment instead of on investment and on the development of their local self-government. Since this has not yet been developed enough, since this government is obliged to work on it and expects these mechanisms to develop within three years. The mechanism offered by this law is the best possible and rational replacement for the perfect system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33328	Thank you. Let's just extend our hours. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need to pass the laws of today's session as soon as possible. The word is Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33329	I also thank you for the opportunity to discuss certain details of the two laws you mentioned. So, here's the deal. Terminological difference, I accept the difference. You probably have your divisions, this is that common syntagma of the people. Investments are permanent investments, so they can be permanent investments or investments. I couldn't agree more. We can iron that out, I'm sorry, it's more of a lapus than a deliberate mistake. Thus, it will be easy for us to find common ground. So we have current maintenance, investment maintenance investments. No problem, it's, I'm sorry, it was more a lapus than the intention of introducing a new term. As a matter of fact, you mentioned the 1999 Law, 2000, were regulations before that, there were all kinds of things. As far as these laws are concerned and putting out of force, I don't think we're looking at it, and I don't think there's any need, since the first law had 30 days to apply, and that's why it closed itself. After 30 days of the law's entry into force, the deadline has expired and the law is therefore out of force. There was also a term as long as the legal basis for the purchase could be established and it also puts the law out of force, and we could put it out of force, because the lawyers told us it was legally unnecessary. The second law, the one from 2000, had six months as a deadline and that deadline had long expired and I also don't think there's any need for the law to be put out of force, since it has also legally exhausted itself. As for the essence of these laws and everything else, I can agree with you that we should go back and watch why we were privatizing apartments in social property, all tenancy rights, state, social property, etc. It's a prehistory that's much more complex and I don't think it's politically colored, it's more colored socially. Therefore, it has a long history, perhaps a special debate would be in place, because everyone was buying apartments in vain, for a few thousand marks the apartments were bought, the rent rights were converted into property. We can explain that part, but I think it's an integral part of some tradition. As far as fair compensation is concerned, I fully agree with you, use the amendments and there's a simple solution written there. People told me, persuasion, that the tax administration overestimates, given that it slowly changes the value of real estate, that it overestimates. This case you state is a special case, and it turned out to be 5,000 euros per square metre, which is not a good example. I don't know if it's legally possible, if there's an auction, then after that the right to prevent buying, suggest it and let the lawyers say if it's possible. In this situation I think a better method to determine the price that will be a real market price, this should not have elements of the subsidy, at all. That's not the intention. The intention is to stop worrying about apartments, especially business spaces, which should not be owned by the state, to find a way to transfer it to private property for fair compensation. The same applies to the special status that was given to the city, for art, so add the amendment, you have my support, 100%. So, this or any other relevant competent institution, and here it came from that atrocity of these spaces will be on the territory of the city of Belgrade, and because of that, simplicity, has been placed, and otherwise legally and essentially, I have absolutely nothing against the amendment, to add this, so leave it or some competent organization, qualified organisation in the territory where there is a business facility or residential facility. These are amendments that are completely acceptable, as part of logic. Why are we doing this? It's the first step that's the simplest. The second step will be to sell all the real estates that are easy to record, which will be hundreds of apartments in Belgrade that are in a completely unusable state. They were sometimes used for the needs of people travelling from former republics and provinces to Belgrade to work in government, the Assembly and these are apartments where people say they cannot issue them under normal market conditions, as they are in an unusable state. It is necessary to invest huge resources to bring home the interior of the apartment that ended in the '60s and '70s to today's level, and only then do you see what it means after 20 years that the toilets, the kitchen and the rest are completely unusable. Thus, water leaks, sewers, heating, etc. The state wants it, it will be sold at auction, where there are no valid usage contracts, the DKP is exempted, this will be sold at auction, and I think the aim is to reach relatively decent prices, and to residential areas in Belgrade, and I think it should be social, and for the country, it's a positive thing. As far as the legislation is concerned, colleague Udovici has already told you about public enterprises, and I would like to add that for the largest public enterprises, they are not here by exempting them from the law, not by reducing the requirement for their restructuring, but by strengthening, EPS, "Serbian Gas", "The Railway", and the rest will be subject to three-year, four-year structural loans which will enter into legal, management, corporate, manufacturing and organisational restructuring of these companies with criteria of increasing efficiency, performance and everything else. Therefore, there will be much, much sharper criteria and number of employees and performances. In particular, for example, in the EPS, the EPS restructuring programme provides for both a reduction in technical losses and an increase in collection and a reduction in the number of people and an increase in the performance of the system that will be ready to attract foreign investment, etc. It means we don't go into details, but it's not the subject of these laws. We deliberately ruled it out. My colleague Udovici explained why we left public enterprises at the local level because it was impossible to rule them out logically and thus not create an unmanageable situation in tracking and defining target sizes and performances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33330	The word is made by the People's MP Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33331	Dear President, dear Minister Udovic and Minister Vujovic, I would only like to say on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group that we will support this set of laws today before us in the voting day. I don't have any literature here right now. We actually got this material on Saturday, but within all the changes that are necessary in this country, we have a lot of understanding about the urgency of the procedure and the adoption of these laws at this speed. What I have reported most is that on behalf of the PUPS and the Post Office of Serbia, where I come from, I simply commend Minister Vujovic and his associates precisely for some changes in the Public Procurement Act that will mean a great deal to us. This specifically refers to this Article 124a, which will allow this increased amount of small public procurement from three million to ten to just facilitate the efficiency of these large enterprises, and so far it's really been such a big brake for us, so that's one of the reasons I've reported. Secondly, I think it is a good thing that the state has not entered into the reorganisation, i.e. to determine the maximum number of employees in public enterprises. For example, Serbia's Post Office, headed by our President Milan Krkobibic, one of the most successful public enterprises, has set out on its own to streamline and reorganise and where there are surpluses to transfer them to a technology where there are always shortages. We're opening new jobs, or we're designing new jobs, and we have a theory that there are no extra workers, but there's no job. So what we want, as a parliamentary group, is to support this set of laws, with a lot of understanding of the urgency that was necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33332	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33333	President-in-Office, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to put forward the views of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians on the subject of the financial laws that are before us here. There are seven laws, and I will try to make our views clear. First of all, the Law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions, we know that in 2013, the so-called famous Rino system, but unfortunately in this system we left out, when we passed this law, commercial transactions between the public sector, means public sector entities, between two public sector entities, but only here are the public sector and the private sector. At that time local self-governments used this hole in the law and then unfortunately they pay less and less for these services, so-called municipal services or heating services, so they don't pay, maybe pay after 90 days or 120 days, so they delay the time of payment. I think it's important in this law that we also put these obligations on commercial transactions between public sector entities. So, the application of this law will begin from 1 January 2016 and, as Mr. Minister said, I think that for this time until this law is applied, there will be plenty of time for local self-government to pay their bills and reach those 60 days, which is the deadline in this law. As we know in the law, which is in effect 45 days, the second paper is that we moved this deadline 15 days up, so 60 days is at stake. I mean, who hasn't paid up to 45 days of his commitment will hardly pay them in 60 days, but these 15 days mean a lot, especially in the financial sector. The third newspaper is on surveillance, as we saw the surveillance was transferred from the Treasury Administration to the Ministry of Finance – Department of Budgetary Control. Henceforth, from now on, the vaults will collect data on settled liabilities and deliver data to the Department of Budgetary Inspection through the IT system. As I said, the application of this law is from 1 January 2016 and I think it will bring some order in paying obligations to public sector entities, at least I think that order will respect these deadlines or these deadlines by local self-government. The second law is the Public Debt Act. In my view, a key sentence in this law is, and it is in Article 10, the Republic can only provide guarantees if the assets of the loan for which the guarantee is granted are financed by the capital investments of the debtor. The Republic cannot provide guarantees if the assets of the loan for which the guarantee is granted are financed by the current operations of the debtor, i.e. for the liquidity of the debtor. These guarantees amounted to dozens of billions of dinars in previous budgets, and they were more funds than the funds we gave to the AP Vojvodina at the time. I mean the transfer funds to local self-government. As we know, in the 2015 Budget Law, we have transparently put about 30 billion dinars for these guarantees, which will be activated by those public enterprises where the state has provided guarantees. I hope, as Mr. Minister has said, that this law will be respected, if we are to solve a very big problem, as far as our gaps or expenditures in the budget are concerned. The next law is the Law on special conditions for selling certain immovable property in the property of the Republic of Serbia. This law proposes selling state-owned immovable property in order to generate additional revenue from the budget, and we must point out here, without increasing the tax burden on citizens and on the economy. The subject matter of sales, as we heard, are apartments, housing, business space, etc. It is important to note that the subject matter of sales is not the property on which users, i.e. holders of the right to use AP, local self-government, etc. It's important to point out. As we have seen in the law, the right to purchase these immovableities has those natural persons or legal persons who have a based lease agreement. I think it would be more specific here to determine that those who have this lease have the right to purchase. In my opinion, this would be more correct, but this is how we can accept this law. It is important that it is pointed out that they must settle, those who have a lease of their obligation to rent, according to the payment of this obligation. Why does it matter? In our society, unfortunately, this isn't common...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33334	Time, MP, it's only over.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33335	... that everyone pays these fees. And here it's important that this is the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33336	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33337	Thank you very much. Five minutes, nine laws, hundreds of pages overnight came in and we immediately suspect that a fraud stands ahead and are partially correct. Of these nine laws, the New Party MPs will support without comment and amendment five, two of us will try to fix with several amendments, and for two we think you should withdraw them, and if you won't do that our amendments are being deleted, those popular amendments in this assembly. What's special, three of the most important? So I'm going to talk about two that we think are really bad, that there are no repairs for one that can be fixed. I hope our amendments will be adopted. Let's start with sales. Question why only tenants have the right to buy real estate in their own country? These leases were usually more favourable than on the market, and now we come to the fact that someone who had the privilege of a year, two, five, ten, 50 years to be a tenant at half the price of a state-owned market space that now can and can buy it from the only one of the seven million people that lives in this country. If the aim is to sell unnecessary properties, then they are placed on the bidding who gives more, and current tenants can have the advantage of being on equal terms, they can buy it. This means if you get the same price with someone else they'll already buy the property. Why are you doing this? Who's this for? There's no other explanation. How many squares is it to be part of that sale? How many squares are there going to be in Serbia, and where does that money go? To the budget for the day-to-day spending? So these properties are the national treasures of this country that are once sold to patch up the holes in the budget that have been made by various bad governments, especially in the last 10 years, and that is inadmissible, and it is very questionable, this modern word, is it according to the Constitution, and we are going to investigate and respond to that. Why does the Law on Public Procurement change when you have a whole first paragraph in your reasoning of change, which is the praise of the existing law - which is excellent, who has moved everything forward, everything is phenomenal, so why are you changing it? You're saying there are professional public procurement triggers. Oh, that's not true. Public procurement can only be brought down if it isn't done properly, if it isn't ordered properly, and there is no other way. The chairman of the Finance Committee, here, told the board that the previous law is excellent, but that there is only a problem because it is being implemented in Serbia. So, if it's great that you're changing it? Secondly, what right does the chairman of the Finance Committee have to insult Serbia? I'm sure good law can be implemented in Serbia at all times, even if it was this authority, but this is bad law and the question of who is it being made for? What are these public procurements that are now to be hidden under this new bill? The third thing is the Law on determining the maximum number of public sector employees. My question, and where are the public enterprises founded by the Republic of Serbia? How is it that public enterprises in the province and local self-government can be put in order, driven into these numbers, and only these big state governments can't? Because there's the highest level of overemployment, because there's the biggest corruption and because there's gone the largest number of personnel, brought in—the category that's been brought in over the last 10 years because in the state administration, people around you have to do it. Public enterprises don't have to do anything. Half the workers in any public enterprise have done nothing and have all been brought in in the last 10 years. Check it out. Our proposal is of course that this law applies to public enterprises and it is necessary for trade unions to participate in this, in assessing who is excess and who is not. Unfortunately, it's five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33338	Replica, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33339	I'm avoiding it when in some matter I don't understand what I'm talking about, so I'd recommend it to others. Professional tender triggers, as counterpart Radenkovic called it at the board's session, does not mean he will knock down the tender. It's enough to write a complaint on any part of the procedure and to stop all the actions until the end of the commission. The Commission, which currently works around 100 cases a day, solves about 70 to 75 days. Some legal deadline was 30 days, and that was the biggest problem in public procurement, not bad law, but the possibility of abuse of the law in order to achieve some financial goal. Do you think there should be no Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures? Shouldn't someone who believes that a right has been violated by the Law on Injured Procedure or do you want us to abolish the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and transfer it to courts? Do you know when we'll finish public procurement? Never. Never. How long have you had court proceedings? A year at a time. The problem was simply that there was one desire to abuse a good law, manipulate it, and create a narrow throat. Now we've increased the number of board members to eight. We'll make some more legal decisions...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33340	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33341	I'm done. And you'll see that the law will be very different.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33342	Minister Vujovic has a word. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) Minister Vujovic needs to respond. The Rules of Procedure shall take precedence whenever the Proposer reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33343	I just want to say it again, maybe you weren't in the O.R. I absolutely agree that the problem in public enterprises is equal to or greater. It is here, and we are talking about a decision to cut budgets, and with budget users, it also defines everything with a desire, first of all, a section relating to salaries. We don't have the authority to do this in public enterprises. Therefore, through their annual business plans, we approve of what they are doing and using funds, for example, structural loans, specifically and other instruments, we will use a set of these instruments of legal credit, financing and other, restructuring programmes, to achieve what we think we should achieve. Will they do it, will there be resistance? It's a special issue and I fully agree with your concern, but we don't put this in this law because it's not the subject of this law, but it's the subject of other instruments, restructuring programmes, funding and everything else. We cannot legally say EPS – reduce the number of employees, but we can say – we will support this system of financing and restructuring of the EPS to which they participate, for example. The World Bank and the European Bank, as will be the EPS case, provided you do a programme that is acceptable, as will be shown by the restructuring programme, the financial restructuring programme and the development programme for the next five years. So instruments are different. The goal is similar, the funds are different.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33344	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica! You asked for a replica of Mr. Arsic's exposure? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Yes. ) (Dusan Vujovic, from the scene: Just one more thing to say. We have received an opinion on the constitutionality that it is in accordance with the Constitution. Here the Constitutional Court needs some procedure to initiate, Gordana.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33345	So, if you've got a constitutional assessment, who told you it's under the Constitution, then that one should go to jail, since only the Constitutional Court can define what's under the Constitution...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33346	Ambassador, you're replicating Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33347	Otherwise, I'm also mentioned by the minister, so I can use it in two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33348	Okay, in two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33349	As for Mr. Arsic, if he had listened to his wisdom from the beginning of his speech in the replica, he wouldn't have said anything further, so I don't want to talk about it anymore. It is very strange here that the Serbian government is in charge of resolving the number of workers in the "water" in Nis, or at a cemetery in Novi Sad, or in a kindergarten in Novi Pazar, and is not competent, for example, in the corridors and on the roads of Serbia. Is that one firm or two? I can't catch it anymore, because the minister says it's one, and as far as I know, it's two. Of course you have the authority. Of course, the Serbian government is setting up members of the board of directors. Most boards of directors have a government in all public enterprises. Of course you could have put it into the law and it could have been done with the amendment that we gave through the amendment, that the boards of directors at the beginning of the year, which are directly under your control, but that it is written in this law, and not that in five laws we solve the same problem, clearly define how busy the worker can be. To see this hero who's going to say that there are 30% extra employees in the EPS, that there are 15-20% surplus in Telecom without speaking in other businesses. We have companies that don't do anything, and they exist and they're public or they're institutions and nobody touches it, because it's a good place, a warm place, a safe house for party personnel, especially for those unemployed. It has to be changed and there's a chance you'll do it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33350	Two minutes. The word is made by Minister Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33351	I wanted to take this opportunity to further elaborate on that question, because I know that most of the surplus in public enterprises, local and republican, is not controversial, and that it intrigues the citizens - why did this law leave the republican public enterprises outside? Minister Vujovic has already explained that programs are being worked on these companies, and I want to reverse that argument and say, "Let's put them there, let's put these boards on." In order for us to guess how right it is, which is the goal, what time, what is possible to do for each of these public enterprises, we would have to go back to the process and a very complex job that is already being done to restructure these companies, with all that information. Why don't we have to do that when it comes to "water" in Leskovac or in some other local self-government? Because this law does not deal with individual public enterprises. We've just analyzed and we've been thinking how, I've already said it at the beginning, to make a minor injustice than a linear reduction, based on information we can have without making a big mistake. Just because we're looking at all the employees of local self-government and all the public enterprises in the bar at the same time, we know that for the excess percentages, which will be determined by the local self-government itself will always be able to identify those public enterprises where there is a surplus, and they don't have to touch... Let's just say, we wouldn't be able to prescribe now and then how many employees should be in every local self-government, say in the plumbing, because there are very large differences in the conditions of business. That's why it has to be a job that's been done for the next three years. It means that standards are being developed for individual areas, for local self-government, or for utility companies at the bar, but if you take everything together, you won't be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33352	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33353	Thank you, Madam President. I am advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108(1). Just now, Mr. Zivkovic was talking about this warm nest for party personnel, called the board of directors. I ask you to remind Mr. Zivkovic that for two years there has been no longer a two-home management of public enterprises, that there is no board of directors, unlike the time when Serbia was run by him and his buddies sitting in the benches outside, when there were both boards of directors and supervisors, when there was only a rule that there was an odd number...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33354	Member of the Parliament, you have spoken offensively as far as the MPs are concerned, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33355	-Pytosi? Well, they're comrades, associates. This term is used in our literature. I didn't insult anyone, I didn't call anybody cattle, garbage, scum.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33356	No, please don't. It's just a replica, that's all. Injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33357	Replication is next. In contrast, when there was two-home management, when there were both boards of directors and supervisors, when they only knew that in the boards of directors and supervisors they had to put an odd number of people, how many seven, nine, eleven, thirteen, were not concerned at all, unlike the Law on Public Enterprises adopted by the assembly majority in which the SNS, which had abolished the board of directors, left only supervisory committees that were three members for local public undertakings, and for the republican five members of these supervisory boards and introduced the right to manage and rule of public undertakings.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33358	Thank you. Article 108, I think you've replicated more, but is it your right to vote or not? No, I don't. Thank you. Dejan Radenkovic answered the question. (Dejan Radenkovic, from town: Replica, mentioned me by my colleague Arsic. First, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33359	Thank you. Article 27, which obliges the chairman to take care of the order, as well as Article 108, which speaks of rules of mutual address, is injured. So, I would ask the President of the National Assembly to intervene, no matter how much I share with her a tendency to the heat of discussion, but there are times when she is overruled in the heat of the discussion in rudeness, prose and in the need to offend someone sitting in front of Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic. Whatever anyone wants in the dialogue with me, I am available, but also with respect to the basic rules of communication, because our common desire is for the dialogue on these solutions to be such that the people they're going to refer to understand what this is about. The fact that we're dealing with each other here, I think people have understood that a long time ago, and I think it's a shame. I do not expect a fellow MP to apologize either to the National Assembly president or to me, but I would ask that if it can be applied to the Rules of Procedure when it comes to treating MPs sitting in front of MP Zoran Zivkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33360	Thank you. Otherwise, I don't share your passion for a heated debate. I can tell you, not here. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Just one moment, since, as usual, when we've been working for a long time, we're stuck somehow in this whole discussion, to see what I'm going to do. Article 27 and Article 108. I'd react worse, but you know that the word "paitos" is derived from the Hungarian word. We know that Gordana Comić, me and a few other MPs. So, it's on the edge. So, I didn't react any worse, I accept that. It's on the edge, because when you use a side word in your dictionary, whether someone hurt or not, I can't imagine. Anyway, I'm inclined now that we've arrived at 1400 hours, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure, to determine our regular business break by 15.00 hours, and then we'll continue whatever you want, because I think we have a lot to do both ministers and us. We'll keep everything going the way it was, just to get some rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33361	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33362	Thank you, Vice President. The public that's now involved in monitoring this transmission, I've only reported for replication. My colleague Arsic mentioned me because in my presentation, I said that there are professional tender triggers. This is one truth that I have repeatedly pointed out here during previous discussions, during earlier amendments and additions to this law, when adopting and considering the Commission's report on the protection of the rights of tenderers in public procurement procedures. Those who say it doesn't exist, that someone invented it, can only say that it's simply amazing that someone was the prime minister of this country and that he doesn't know what's going on in this country. So there are people who, without any active legitimacy, register and react, demand protection of the right to simply slow down this public procurement. Later they don't show up at all as bidders. It's just amazing that these amendments and additions to the law are regulated, that a baker from Belgrade can't apply for protection of rights when it comes to competitive documentation for a tender for Termo Power Plant Gerdap. It's just amazing stuff. We all know very well, and perhaps it should be the subject of investigative authorities, to see which companies they are because they appear often. That's what people who sit here know, it's a common familiarity. So, simply, the extortion of those bidders who would like to do something, the tenders are slowing down, these bidders are losing because there can't be a realisation of the purchase that's the subject of the procurement. That's it. If something's not clear, I can still answer to explain, and I can do this in an informal conversation with some former prime ministers to explain how it all works.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33363	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33364	Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the beginning of my presentation, I will quote Aristotle from this flyer we received today from the Ministry of Local Self-Government. He says - the state exists for the benefit of the good life of citizens, not just for the benefit of life. On the other hand, we should keep in mind the oath we took here where we made a commitment to the citizens of Serbia that we would do everything in their interest, so I hope that it is both practice and custom and in this Assembly, that it will be so in the future. From that point of view, I'm also looking at these draft laws that are on the agenda. The law on special conditions of sale of certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia is inevitability, at least as it says in the bill, concerning the reasons that led to this law being found in the procedure, where the government sincerely acknowledges that a reduction in pensions and wages has led to less spending, i.e. a minor inflow of funds into the budget, and thus the government has recognised in some way that it is forced to sell those immovableities. On the other hand, criticisms from the opposition and some speakers doubt that some side effects, i.e. malfeasance, may occur during this sale. I hope that both the government and the ministries and commissions involved will have enough power to counter any irregularities in this business and that we will not question one job that needs to be done and must be done. Regarding the Law on Public Procurement, here from counterpart Dejan Radenkovic's speech, there had to be these changes, as certain irregularities were observed. As far as I'm concerned, I'm totally different from that job, and I don't think we've had to go into the process of these tenders, because it's really taking a long time to come and it's going to take a year to get some tenders going, and that's why we're seeing it interfere with the various processes that are supposed to end after these tenders. I think all of these draft laws that we have on the agenda today will help us to have a better situation in Serbia and will allow citizens of Serbia at least a little better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33365	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33366	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will speak out of four legislative proposals, above all about the draft law on special conditions for selling certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia. I think that this law is completely unnecessary and that, under the existing regulation that was adopted as a sublegal act in relation to the Public Property Act, we could have been more transparent, in a public way, to get market value. You say, Mr. Minister, that the tax administration will assess the market value. The market value cannot assess the tax administration and this happens very often, that this assessment of the tax administration is far from market value. The only market value that is correct is the market value achieved at auctionation or at multiple tenders. It's a market value that someone's arbitrary of appraisals doesn't exist. As for the sale of state-owned immovableities, I think it was far more celibate that instead of selling out state-owned assets, we allowed some household and good management experience to manage these properties and to bring some income, not to cost the state. It is explained that what we possess as property – an obstacle to development, an obstacle to solving budget problems, but I don't think property can be an obstacle. The property owned by the state can only be one option, one new component of development and key, that is, the main reason for the problem of poor availability of state property is the inaction of the state. Last week, the state auditor, when publishing the purpose assessment and the availability of state assets, cited exactly what the problems are. The problems are the lack of an adequate base. The state doesn't know what real estate and what property it owns, either. No immovableity data, no value data. Bookkeeping values differ, no great benefit from them. There is no control over the availability of immovable property, the immovable property is incorrectly used, the prices generated in the lease are not marketable. The Republic of Serbia, the State Auditor says, is missing an opportunity to increase its revenues based on the assets it owns. I think this report was a good basis to go first and foremost into the list of assets to determine exactly, to build a base, to determine exactly what the state has of property and then to determine who will have this property in one better way, to determine a manager or someone capable of managing that property. Because if we say that the state cannot manage the property in a domestic way, in a way that will bring the state income from that property means that the state is probably not capable of managing any institution, any other public enterprise, any other legal person. Well, then it's not the solution to sell out. It is not a solution to sell out and we cannot transfer things to the social component, because it is likely that those who for social reasons use the lease of state-owned apartments will not be able to buy it directly, even if they are allowed to buy it directly, they will not be able to do so, but it is likely that someone else who will buy a commercial facility directly will benefit from it. The highest price would be achieved by auctioning, and you could look at the existing regulation, there is a beautifully described way to buy it, or alienate the object in its own Republic. It was possible to make a preference, i.e. the possibility for the tenant to have the advantage, if he achieved the highest price relatively, that the first one would have the opportunity to buy at the highest price achieved at the auction, and that would be quite correct. This way, even those who leased property in December, last year, have the opportunity to come into the property without bid. I don't think the bill is transparent and there's a serious doubt that it's being brought in for someone who's renting some commercial property. When it comes to the assessment of investment investment, you also, in the existing regulation, Mr. Minister, from 2012 you have a precise definition of how these investments are recognised when it comes to the lease. Why didn't you rewrite the views of this Regulation would be more useful to the state, the state would save more. This is how you go back to judgment, and that's another reason why we suspect it's happening to someone who's renting certain assets that are commercially used. I think the way this law enters the procedure and the way it's discussed and the way it's defined and sold, and the bargaining, and the return of investment investment is sufficiently non-transparent and puts the whole of the law into question. Drag this bill to work it out and then we can discuss it even though I believe that state property should not be sold, it should be expanded to increase state property and be used as a component of development. The second draft law, which is also on the agenda today, is the proposal to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act. On Saturday afternoon, MPs on the portal were given the opportunity to see the bill. Mr Minister, it is not possible to just read the EU regulation that calls for an explanation of 24/2014 and a bill and prepare adequate amendments for just over 24 hours. Really, it's not possible. And it's not possible to look at everything these changes bring. What is a special scandal is that the Assembly had no idea that the amendments and addition of the Public Procurement Act were being prepared, simply because we had a Working Group that was involved in the adoption of a new law on public procurement. This morning, when we had the Finance Committee, colleague Dejan Radenkovic, it was frantic to learn that today we are getting a bill from the government that we are working on in parallel, resigning from membership in the Working Group, which I did afterwards. I think this is a real indicator of how the government refers to the National Assembly, in which it humiliates it and especially when we have in mind that the committee is chaired by the MP of the largest party in the ruling majority. This emergency procedure is particularly problematic, given the many problems that have followed the adoption of the existing law. We remember all praises that he will save a billion dinars to the Republic of Serbia, and today we see that Serbia's budget is mostly saved by teachers, pensioners, those with the lowest incomes, those who remain unemployed, they bring savings today to the Republic of Serbia's budget. As for public procurement of affairs until the affair. Twenty days ago Sasha Varinac resigned and then kept quiet about it for 15 days. Fifteen days of resignation was nowhere to be announced until after that. Then there are speculations that a man suffers from pressure, that he has many cases, that the law is not as perfect as it was spoken of. Then we'll change it quickly. We'll be quick to change his provisions, and then there won't be, like, a bunch of business as it was done on the Prokop case. Six million people are high in public procurement for Prokop, and that's what he's keeping quiet about. When a report on the execution is requested for Tamnava, six months as a MP, although there is a conclusion of the Finance Committee, it cannot be executed for Tamnava. Now, these are the problems, Mr. Minister, which you were supposed to solve for the implementation of the existing law, not to bring in a new one that we have in advance doubt is brought forward to make it easier for individual suppliers to get jobs. Today in Serbia, when it comes to the fact that there are companies that break down on purpose tenders, today only certain people have the right to do business, they do excellent business, others cannot do business. That's why we have this situation in the economy, and it's not worth it to us, nor is the law that I wanted to comment on, and it's about the public sector paying deadlines because we have directors who keep funds on account, because they want to be important and influential, so the businessmen have to go and beg them to get their own money, and then there's corruption. I'm not saying it's not today, it's been a few years, and when it's going to end with that practice. Instead of passing new laws, we could start implementing existing laws. I don't have much time, our parliamentary group, I'm going to have to finish earlier, but really, this kind of agenda, with so many points, very important and this way proposed to the National Assembly, I don't think it contributes to the quality of the debate and will not bring laws to Serbia out of economic problems and from a recession where we are as one of the few countries in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33367	Replica. Here, you're mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33368	Thank you, Vice President. I had to answer, I was mentioned, and I have to say I wasn't fragrant, maybe someone else was fragrant. I expected to get the amendments and additions of the law from the ministry that is otherwise the proposing one. I did accept participation in the Working Group and the Working Group were representatives of the state bodies and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the Public Procurement Administration, representatives of the Republic Commission, representatives of all relevant factors, and this started with consideration and possibly in which direction the amendments and additions of the law should go. I thought there was some kind of coordination. I don't know what was going on, I just resigned because I think it stopped the purpose of the Working Group's existence to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act, because we got a proposal. I don't mind the law, that's what I said in the opening and as a party, and we're glad because everything we talked about earlier is the subject of these changes and additions today. It has been done excellently and particularly to draw attention to my colleagues not to speak against the law if it is done, amended and amended by law, if it is done in accordance with EU directives. I don't think we all have, maybe around that delivery deadline, it's maybe problematic, that's what I've been saying before, it's a past-time practice. We must, as I told you today on the Committee that we are changing these things together, not when we are sitting in a position, we are silent, and when we are in opposition, colleague Ivan Jovanovic, we are talking about how it should be done one way or another. When we were together in the coalition, it didn't bother you. So don't let it be like some major objection to getting the law into the congregation procedure now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33369	Thank you. Jovanovic, he didn't mention you. He just denied it. Don't. Please, he just explained your comment on his resignation. I think she was correct and he didn't hurt you. No, thank you very much. (Ivan Jovanovic, from the place: Now he mentioned me, my name and name. You have no basis. He didn't hurt you. You have no basis, nothing is offensive. This was your statement. No, I don't. Thank you very much. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33370	Dear President-in-Office, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I greatly respect what the previous speaker, Mr Jovanovic and his elaborated on why this law should be withdrawn from the procedure, but I would like to point out that this is a clear and strategic definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I hope that the majority parliament, as well as that the state gets the most out of management when it comes to certain areas of social life. I think that's good. Mr. Professor. Ljubisa Stojmirovic quoted Aristotle as saying, I will quote former US President Ronald Reagan, who when he came to his post in 1981, where he said that in this crisis the state is an absolute problem, the state is not the solution to the problem. This law, when it comes to public property and the sale of state property, therefore, public property, contributes to the sale of state property and to the use of it through private hands, through private initiative and the private sector, in the best possible, most efficient, most productive way. But I'll talk about it a little later. I will focus, since I have little time for all these laws that are on the agenda today, on this Act on the maximum number of employees in the state administration, or in the public sector. I think it is very important that everything defined by the public sector development strategy and through action plans is implemented in the next few years, which is what this law and with the pay law that we, hopefully, have in the next few months on the agenda, wants to achieve. What does the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, want to achieve through the implementation of this law? First of all, I would like to point out that finally the ministries, which has not been an example so far, have not been an example in the last 15 years, have been involved in the process of defining and achieving a favourable and quality environment for new investments and for business ventures, both for foreign and domestic investors. All of this work is done only for the reason that one is made, as the brochure itself writes well, a quality and good service of the state when it comes to its relationship with citizens and what is most important, where the state's approach is drastically changed, this approach when it comes to businessmen and the service that the state needs to be in that domain and in such a way that it is a clear service to businesses and to make it all possible for those who pay taxes to this country, which are full of budget, to be those on which the state policy will be focused, and in that sense to be focused on deregulation, to be focused on decentralisation, and to free the space and place for private initiatives in our country to be developed, and not as we have so far, until recently, when the ministries, let's say the judiciary, the same to the Ministry of State Administration of the local self-government, they didn't care about the business environment, and they felt that they had such access to their absolute work in our country. So that's the most important thing that changes, changes the approach itself. What I belong to, therefore, the SDPS, is important is one of the main aspects of "condicio son qua non" of this law. It's the same pay for the same work. We haven't had that before. We also have today cases that for the same job employees receive drastically different, i.e. they have different levels of profit and it is not good, and I will compare it with having such cases that when they are working on leasers, which the Leasing agencies hire are drastically lower paid, but those employees who are in a working relationship to certain and undefined times, and this law will definitely solve this problem and it has this component that is focused on doing the flexibility of the labour market itself, jobs, to make clear systemsization of jobs, paying classes on which, according to their impact, workers, therefore, employees in the state administration, will be paid to the public sector. What I strongly support, this is the stronger involvement of the private sector in that domain of public services that have so far been done by state and public institutions, and that is good, it relies on this American doctrine of public sector reform, which has, for the main purpose, the productivity of public sector employees, has competitiveness, and of course aursing, that is, taking over certain services from a private sector that the state has no interest in working, or lacks sufficient human, financial, material and any capacity to work in the most efficient way. What is also important, and here I want you to get good and quality results as soon as possible, that is a "gavrment" that is with us here – E-parliament, full definition, the establishment of electronic business in the entire public sector and public administration. I will only cite an example of Macedonia, which is much higher than the Doing Business List of the World Bank and the World Economic Forum, which introduced an electronic tax payment and 98% is VAT collection in Macedonia. Three or four years ago, they introduced electronic building permits, which opened space for new sides, direct investments, and I hope that in the next period we too will have a complete electronic state administration that would contribute to making our administration more efficient, but to service both domestic and foreign investors. I would also like to point out that unfortunately, in your competences there are no public enterprises and the definition of the maximum number of employees in public enterprises, but therefore much can be done in the PIO Fund, the Health Insurance Fund, the National Employment Service, which should take over one more proactive, much better and much more efficient role in the very management of property and cost management, since 45% of the budget transfers go exclusively for these three institutions. What I would also point out, and in which this law will contribute positively, is that our public expenditure is about 47.4%. When we exclude these pension payments, social aid payments, training rates, which will be 3.5% in 2015, profits in the public sector that are high compared to GDP. I'm going to compare again with Albania and Macedonia, there's that share of profits below 7%, and we have 12%, and I support that we reduce it to 8.5% over the next three-year period. We only have 14% left for investments, for capital investments, for certain software investments and investments. What is done through the establishment of clear systemizations, paying classes, the establishment of a modern system of human resources in public administration will just contribute to the fact that we are not getting into a situation that we do not have enough projects and that we cannot use the right, quality of the money that we receive through grants, or these are EU funds, or they are cheap loans. Today we will discuss the agreements and loans of the European Investment Bank which we have not used, precisely because of the lack of that capacity in human resources, their abilities, primarily organisational, knowledge, so that in one quality way and within the right time, we can realise these projects. What I would also point out is that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government has defined and developed a clear methodology in which this law will be implemented and that is good, there are clear parameters, there are clear standards that determines the maximum number of employees in local self-government and complete in the state sector. What is very important is that this strategy is based on the ratio of the Imput, so money investments, the number of employees in what comes as an additional value, or what should be the result of all this and what should be measurable. And what's that? It's the citizens' trust right in the state administration, it's the trust of the economy, and I'm sure Minister Udovici is focused on the dialogue with the economy, we've seen that, it's proven countless times and that's what will be the main result when it comes to implementing this law. What do the businessmen say, what do the citizens of the Republic of Serbia say and what is the regulatory framework? "NAED" also produced a good methodology for the regulatory index. Almost all parameters of this regulatory index are related to the work and efficiency of the state administration and the state administration, starting with parafiscal burdens, the environment itself and all that it takes for businesses to disband and to reach a larger inflow in our country, both foreign and domestic investments. In the end, I'll just say that in the sectors of health, education, sports, education, I hope, there will finally be a change of that approach, especially management. We are one of the few countries in Europe and in the world where management affairs deal with those who have organizational sciences, management sciences, economic sciences, have nothing to do with it. So you can't use money, resources, manage, without clear knowledge, capacity, skills and ability to exploit them in the best possible and more efficient way and I want you to give maximum effort to change that. As for the management of state property, I must point out that I believe it is possible to discuss the idea, the old idea of the applied economic science and the profession with us, Professor Miladin Kovacevic, the creation of a land fund that would manage state assets and that would best use the commercial principles of this state property in a corporate way. It's very important if you have the capacity. I think he's got himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33371	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33372	I'm done. There is, because it is the project "Belgrade on Water" that shows that the state has power, has opportunities, has knowledge and good international positions to realise large projects such as this 3.2 billion-euro project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33373	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33374	Dear Mr. Arsenovic, I have a question for you, Article 104. Does this Rules of Procedure apply equally to members of parliament from the opposition and members of parliament from the government? I will read to you Article 104 in order to clarify: “If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insolently expressing himself to a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation refers shall have the right to replication. “ You did not give me the right to reply, although I was mentioned by name and last name, although I was misread, and I did not insult the MP Radenkovic, nor did I say anything bad about him, and you gave him a replica. Indeed, this is not the first time you have done this. I don't know if you have anything personal against me, and you can tell me that, but I can't get a replica once I get a name and a last name when you're chairing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33375	Why I gave the right replica to Mr Radenkovic – you mentioned his name and name. And I don't think you're his lawyer to interpret and to publicly publish his actions and act on the resignation of a certain function. You have the right to say that for yourself, but not for another, especially since MP Radenkovic was there, in the Assembly. For that reason, I felt that he had the right to give an additional explanation. And nothing else. He didn't insult you for anything. On the contrary, he just called himself that you made a statement and it was over. That's why I don't think you had the right to a replica. I also think I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Once again, I do not have anything against you or anyone else. If you'd like, can we go to the voter's Day? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33376	Dear Ministers, honourable government representatives, respected fellow MPs, Mr. Vujovic, I can imagine how pleased you are and how great your pleasure is, that I feel when I hear the MPs of some other parties who have been in the coalition for years with the Democratic Party, who now have some ex-post mind and how they will now, such a pretty serious time distance, to show that they were once not for some solution, and now, for God's sake, have accepted all the reforms and how some others have blamed for many failures in this country, as if they hadn't been part of the coalitions for years, part of the government. I think you're waiting for what they used to say about us, or today they're talking about us, but that's another question. Mr Vujovicu, I believe that your obligation today was in the first sentence, when you address this parliament and the citizens of Serbia, to say that you are withdrawing from the procedure of the law, primarily on public procurement and other laws, for several reasons. The first reason - opposition MPs received these proposals on Saturday afternoon, and some in the evening, which are very serious. The public procurement law, Mr. Minister, has 92 new members. If we consider that the previous law had 178 members, we find out that more than 50% of the members change in this bill. That, Mr. Minister, still means that today we should have talked about a new law, not about amending the existing law. I want to congratulate you on the courage that you've actually confirmed, by this act of law-making, everything the DS has said for three years, and that's that the previous law was very bad. Three years ago, we talked about the Law on Public Procurement, which meant about three and a half to four billion euros by 2012, exists in transactions between the institutions of this country, that only because of the pulsism, ignorance and inability, you proposed a law that abolished all of this, or that in 2012, we had a turnover of between 800m euros and a billion euros, three to four times less than it was before. You may have, directly or indirectly, confirmed in your statement that the procedures provided for by this law, or earlier law, were such that you had objections that lasted for months. According to your statement, these objections were 120 to 190 or 200 days. That means six months you've left the right to someone to obstruct the processes. This means that by your failure and in schools, you've brought to the point that there's no chalk, there's no paper, there's no energy, there's no meat, no milk and no eggs, no food. You've led to the fact that there's no possibility of... Mr. Babic, I don't know what's funny, you might not feel it if you have passages everywhere, but in people's health institutions because they don't have the opportunity to conduct public procurements waiting months for surgery, for interventions, no gauze, no food, no sanity material. So we let just because of the bad law everything stands in Serbia and Mr. Arsic himself, who has been saying for years that it's a good law, today says he's getting over what he wants. So, there's something wrong with the law, and you can't come to the Assembly today and pretend like nothing's happened, like there's been nothing wrong in the state for three years and tell us how you're proposing some amendments to the law, and you're actually proposing a new law. We tried to propose dozens of amendments in these under 30 hours. We've indicated that it's not good that you don't have deadlines here, say, to adopt a public procurement plan. We've given solutions, we've given a lot of amendments that indicate how to fix this law, but that, believe me, is impossible. It's impossible to give so many amendments at 30 hours to fix something that's bad. We expected that precisely because you have authority and that I believe, you would like to make the best solution today, suggest that you withdraw this law, that it return to the debate that all the shortcomings and problems of the ID and that you appear here in parliament again with a good solution. Also, with regard to the law on the way and criteria for the number of public administration employees, I think it is very bad to talk about this law with so few MPs today in this atmosphere. Previously on committees, we have pointed out all the adverse consequences of applying such proposals. We said that the most important thing that should happen after the adoption of this law and outcomes is that I am really glad that the big difference in the statements Mrs. Udovici made a year ago, a year and a half ago, when there were tens of thousands of cancellations and surpluses we came to a more rational proposal and solutions, but I am sorry that Madam Deputy Prime Minister kept silent in this same assembly a month ago when Minister Vulin talked about 850,000 – 870,000 employees in the public sector, and she said two, three days before that that there were 495,000 employees in the public sector and that it was a mistake that you tried to make a complete collapse in a very bad atmosphere in the functioning of the public sector, threatening people by firing. We're no longer talking about how many dozens and hundreds of people are employed at a time when you said there was no employment in local administrations, businesses, etc. Example of Užica, I can tell you the disastrous consequences of hiring 200 people in the period when you say no employment. But I also believe that this principle that you've set today about going step by step is good. There's a lot of leaks. One of the failures, in my opinion, is what you just said, large cities, large numbers of users. A large number of residents also require a very different service. So, start from the fact that the outcome of all processes must be quality and must be that it is a service to people. I wanted to show you that it is not good for regional centres such as Užice to be in these principles that you have established, such as several other cities in Serbia, to be neglected, or to have no insight, or to have no regard for what it is to be a regional centre that has, say, a National Theatre that is professional. The National Theatre as a pillar of culture in the region has co-operation not only in the region but also beyond. It must remain as such, it must in some way have an impact on other local administrations that are in the environment or the National Museum which serves ten other municipalities in the environment or a regional dump that collects waste for ten cities and municipalities in the environment. So you can't have the same arches and it's good to change that in some way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33377	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33378	... But I'm calling you, don't fire people. Hire people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33379	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33380	Just another minute, half a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33381	Finish it, if it's been that long, but you've been talking for almost a minute. Here you go. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33382	Mrs. Udovicki, it's not good to talk about firing people at the same time that in the analysis of the functioning and local administrations and institutions in this country we say, in Užica, Čačka, Kralje and Valjev, five, six building permits were issued annually. In all areas and sectors, you have a problem with people not having a favor. You hire people...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33383	Thank you. I really can't tolerate you anymore. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33384	I'd just like to answer and give an explanation because I understand that this is very confusing with the number of employees. It's not simple. It's got a lot of definitions. So when we go out with a number of about 494 to 500,000 employees, that's what would be called the general state level, which the IMF classifies. So, he treats as institutions that provide state services that, again, I'm going back to that non-communicative type, it's not about companies. The numbers that cross 700 thousand, 780 thousand, 800 and some thousands, I even know a very credible analysis that comes close to 900 thousand. These are, to say the concentric circles involving the definition of such or such public ownership in companies. When you include all the living in which the state has property, and even those companies that are privatized in the '90s, there's only one part left in state property, etc. There can be as many as 900 thousand employees, and that is why there are confusions. When Minister Vulin speaks, he speaks on the basis of data from the Ministry of Labour and the National Employment Service and he probably had that much broader definition of the concept, that is, that is, the public sector, not the level of the general state or what we call the state sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33385	The replica has Veroljub Arsic and Zoran Babic for mentioning the name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33386	Well, I can't be surprised at some of the things that were said here. What was the problem with the old Public Procurement Act? Could anyone who qualified to participate in the procurement process? It's not. If it wasn't for someone to whisper to him from the ordery, he couldn't even know there was a public procurement. It was according to the law that D.S. brought. How much was the negotiation or burazing process of public procurement? About 30% negotiating, and today is 5%, which is even better than the EU average. Shall we look at these famous solutions of the commission that acted on complaints in public procurement procedures, see what its deadlines were, were there any responsibilities for the members of the commission and were there any responsibilities for the client if the law was violated? There was no responsibility. Or, only the Health Services Fund saved 35m euros in the first nine months of law enforcement. So with the same amount of drugs that were on the market for all citizens, the savings is 35m euros. Obviously, someone doesn't understand what savings are. Saving is when you do more with the same money. Saving is when you do the same with less money. Not to talk about the way this commission works that was supposed to take care of and monitor the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33387	Time, Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33388	It's a little bit of those two minutes to tell them what they did with the public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33389	The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33390	Mr. Chairman, I understand why the former regime regrets the former Public Procurement Act. Here, now I'm going to explain to you what that pathetic voice is about. The security and information agency bought, in December 2011, furniture to equip its premises from the company “Nitea d.o.o. Belgrade." Although the total value of purchased furniture is 7.232,000 dinars, BIA has not issued a public invitation prescribed by the Public Procurement Act, justifying it as a confidential procurement. Watch out, furniture and chairs, confidential procurement. To make the problem bigger, co-owner and director of the company for trade in office furniture "Nitea" is Vesna Ecmenica, then vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Bozidar Djelic. So these were purchases where not quality, not price, fiancée, father, mother, brother, company related, it was a prerequisite for these public procurements that were made very transparently. In addition to BIA, in five years, from 2007 to 2011, the firm Nithea from Belgrade equipped several state authorities, agencies and institutions with office furniture, including over 40 million dinars. Watch out for the agencies: the Agency for Flight Control, only where there is money, the Agency for Medicinal Products, the Management of Joint Affairs of Republic Authorities, the PIO Fund, the Sava Venac Municipality, the Accreditation Body of Serbia, etc., etc., etc. Enough to go in somewhere, enough to participate in public procurement, you say -- I'm a fiancé or a high-ranking DS official, and of course I get a job right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33391	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has been given to MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33392	Dear Chairman, it is not the first time that our wish or intention to really contribute to improve some law, Mr Babic and his associates turn it into a complete banality. So my theme was that the experiences that existed with Serbian citizens in the last three years were not good, that we had a collapse in function, from kindergartens, through schools, through the institutions of this state, through health institutions, especially. People waited for months for regular operations and for everyone to call for a public procurement process or someone to complain. The creators of the previous law today rather than say -- sorry, Serbian citizens, today the 92 members of the previous law are changing. Why? Because he wasn't good. Why? Because the citizens of Serbia have been collapsed over the application of this law. Instead of all of us helping Mr Vujovic and saying - let's postpone today's debate on this proposal, because we have 200 amendments that are submitted to these proposals, we are still talking about the past, we are talking about banality, we are talking about someone from BIA buying chairs. Well, if someone was buying chairs, Mr. Granny, give the process, but don't under those excuses continue to adopt bad laws, adopt bad bill proposals and make the same mistakes again. So three years in Serbia cannot be completed processes after nine months of public procurement for the most basic things. You don't care that citizens can't get a chance to operate, to drive, to normally have kids go to school, etc. It's a problem, and it's not a problem that you're talking about processes. Of course, everything that was bad is supported and that needs to be explored, but don't stop something that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33393	Thank you. I ask the messengers not to call other messengers, for this enables a replica. So, the feedback based on just mentioning the name I won't allow, Markovic, if you ask, in advance, because I feel like you're deliberately calling the other side to cause a replica, so now this debate would turn into a replica. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33394	If there's no money anywhere, it's not because it's spent under such criminal law on public procurement, on such chairs and some furniture. And not only in the BIA, but also in a series of other organs and organizations. That this is not just a special, separate example, the company "DG companies d.o.o." from Subotica, owned by a father, and former Environment and Mining Minister Oliver Dulic's brother, received a job in August 2010, which is worth 47 million dinars. No tender, no direct contract. Again, it was enough just to show up at the tender and say, "I am the father of the former minister or minister." Can you say that one of my family, Mr. Martinovic's family, Mr. Vujovic, Mrs. Kori Udovici and other people in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, had been used in such a way and thus came to work? What I can proudly say is that the applicable Public Procurement Act has significantly reduced the potential for abuse and corruption compared to 2011. One of the most significant preconditions was created by a significant reduction in the participation of the negotiating process, the one by which Djelic received the job. Oliver Dulic received a 28% job in 2011, and in 2014, it was 5%, the European average. Well, I guess we push and move towards European values, and we're not going back. Not one third of all public procurement can be by me going to Mr. Markovic's in Užice and, like, you to me this, I to you that and that's what we agreed. He can't do it like that anymore. That's why we changed. That is why the Law on Public Procurement of the Cedo of the Serbian Progressive Party is. We boast, we pride ourselves on the Law on Public Procurement that we have also brought for our savings, but also on the reduction of corruption that was the basis of the former regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33395	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, you have not been mentioned by the previous speaker, so I see no basis for replication. Dejane Radenkovic, he didn't mention you either, so I don't see a basis for replication either. Mr. Markovic, I told you I won't give you a replica now. Yes, he mentioned you, but on that basis I won't give it to you, because you caused the replica and I have somewhere to end up and move on. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. (Dejan Radenkovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure! I'm sorry, Dragan. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33396	Dear Vice President, I asked you to give me as an authorised representative of the SPS a word on the replica to present the previous speakers. You gave it once, you gave it to the other, and you won't let me. Let's have a proper session, with all due respect. I just wanted to bring out some information and nothing else, not any discussion. I want to turn this discussion into a constructive discussion. I just wanted to point out that after the adoption of the Law on Public Procurement in 2012 the number of negotiating procedures fell to 5% from 37%. I just wanted to say that, as well as that these changes have been made, they have been done according to EU directives. Don't talk here, so what are you, against the EU now? Now you don't agree with EU directives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33397	Thank you, but it's already a replica, Mr. Radenkovic. Mr. Radenkovic, I ask you to read the good Article 104 when you have the right to replication. You had no basis for replication, and I don't think I've done any harm to the Rules of Procedure. The fact that you have a desire, I can understand the need to say it, but just not on this basis. Do you have the right to ask us to plead on injury day? No, I don't. ) The word is Mr. Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33398	Dear Chairman, I call on article 106. Rules of Procedure, the first position that says the speaker is obliged to talk about the agenda point. I really think it was your obligation to end Mr. Babic at times when, for some time, he accused people of illegally taking in profits, accusing people of taking bribes and corruption. He accuses people here of destroying this country's system. So a man who's not here in the O.R. can't defend himself on all these charges. He understands that you don't have the courage to stand up, but it's your turn... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33399	Mr. Markovic, I won't allow you a replica now. I can only accept that you explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I didn't realize at all what my violation of the Rules of Procedure is now about. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Can I explain? You tried and failed. I want to read to you article 109 that the reminder can be given to a person who directly addresses another MP. I've been able to give you three warnings so far. You have no right to address another MP by name and last name. Before I gave up the replica, I warned you that on that basis, because you challenged by name and last name, and this other one returned also by name and last name, I will not give you the right to the replica. So I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I beg you, there's no reason, I won't allow it now, and here comes the president, but he'll let me finish what I started, and I won't let us put this session in another direction and just now we're just making sure who did what, where he did what. There are investigative organs that need to do this and it's not my place to determine the truth. I'm here to listen, to make sure someone doesn't insult someone, to respect the Rules of Procedure, and that's it. Please sit down, Markovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go, Dragan. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33400	Dear Chairman, Mr. Vujovicu, frankly, I am sorry that at this point in the hall is not Madam Udovici's Deputy Prime Minister. I come from the municipality of Topol, which I've been running for ten years, which is in those 20% of municipalities that don't have any extra employees, not according to this latest bill. But I have to focus most on this bill on the maximum number of employees. It is illogical for me, now respected by Minister Vujovic, that some of my colleagues have already mentioned this, that this law regulates to the depths of local self-government without regulating public enterprises at the republican level. It just doesn't work out for me. On the other hand, my additional questions regarding this law are clear, and they concern the maximum number of employees per thousand residents compared to smaller environments and large cities. Belgrade per thousand residents – 18.5 employees, and some local self-government that has up to 45,000 inhabitants – nine and a half employees. I really wonder sometimes, dear ministers, why we here every day talk about even regional development and whether some resident, I don't know here, Sopota, who lives 20 kilometers from downtown Belgrade, has less rights than someone who lives here in Old Town, Vratar or Savar. I can't simply understand and understand, okay, if you have certain management powers in large cities that are not subject to a smaller environment, but the difference between a citizen in Belgrade having twice as many privileges as a resident, for example. in Arangelovac, Topoli or Raca Kragujevac, I absolutely can't understand it because here in Belgrade there are also the centres of government institutions, of republican public enterprises and I prefer to think that the difference could be at most one and a half and there couldn't be two wholes. Here's my basic remark. Where I have more objections, Your Honor, but I don't know if you can answer me or Mrs. Udovicki, it is - as far as health care is concerned? Homes of health in local self-government, the founder is local self-government 100%. Now, we have in the middle of Serbia, and especially with us in Šumadia, which are dissipated, we have a large number of villages belonging to municipalities, we have a number of doctors that we co-finance with health homes. We pay them 100% somewhere, and we pay them at 50%. Here, Reverend Mrs. Widowy comes in, so this question would be for her, too. What's going on now? So why aren't health homes in this quota? What happens to elementary schools, where we're also founders, where we have a number of teachers in the rural area that are financed from local budgets, and what happens now to these out-of-state departments? You know how, when the school is closed in the village, there is no church, the village is shutting down. Therefore, I would ask, simply, that we be given an explanation of what is going on and whether these employees will be in these quotas that enter nine and a half staff in the administration, compared to the total number of residents. I listened carefully in the morning part of what the Honorable Minister Udovici said – commercialisation of republican public enterprises. But I come from a municipality that has absolutely solid public enterprises and a municipal public enterprise that doesn't pay the dinar salary from the municipal budget. And what does it have to do with wages in the municipal enterprise of a municipality with a municipal budget? On the other hand, we pay from the same budget to a doctor who works in a village 35km from the municipality and for which the Republic Health Insurance Office does not have any, they say, interest in funding him. Does he have an interest in home health from his own income from co-financing with 10% or 20% of someone's salary? This, ma'am, means life in a village that without such things can't work. One more thing I need to ask you, which is vital to life. In the bill of law, you leave the possibility that we have agreements between local self-government, that we can rationalize, let me say, on a common basis. Here, I'll tell you an example, the municipality of Topol and Rač Kragujevaca, where we loaned them, under the name of the building inspector, because Rachi simply needs to have a construction inspector for at least one day and then the administrative inspector comes from Kragujevac and punishes us for what we did, they say – not according to the law. And you now say here in the bill that we can solve specific problems together. When I said I came from a municipality that's in this 20%, I have to say that the quota for Topola is, if we've figured it out correctly, 212 employees. We've got about 200 or 201 right now. But the question is for you and for Minister Vujovic - does this mean, when we adopt a new systemization, and we need, six months we write, every month we ask that we be allowed to hire an environmental inspector because the previous one has retired, we are not allowed to do so? We can't rent it from a neighboring municipality. The question is, what happens when we bring in new systems? Will Minister Vujovic allow us to increase the amount of profits then? That's what we should be told, so for the municipalities that are in this 20%, when they adopt new systems, whether they can immediately rebalance the budget and then for those personnel that they need, which will be within the framework of new systemization, because we now have a busy pay mass and we won't be, simply, and if we can eventually receive someone, that would mean we cut everyone's wages. Also, another issue concerning Prime Minister Vujovic above all. We have a bill on the register of employees, elected, appointed, appointed, employed persons in the users of public funds. You know what, Mr. Vujovic, sometimes it seems to me that we're passing laws, and we already have it all. We in local self-government, when we pay the wages, every list of employees with an exact dinar paid out of the municipal budget goes right for public payments. Can't you just take that one list and let two of your officers handle it...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33401	You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33402	... but we're in a position to pass a new law so we can watch every penny?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33403	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33404	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable fellow MPs, respected ministers and other members of the government, we have before us legal solutions relating to the financial and financial business sector, which create legal bases for a higher degree of financial discipline and better business between business entities, institutions and natural persons. First, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on time limits, the settlement of financial obligations in commercial transactions also recognises, for the first time, the commercial transaction between public sector entities, as a matter of legal regulation, by supplementing the definition given in Article 2(1) of the current legal text. To remind you, this member defines what commercial transactions are, that these actions are defined by a contract between the public sector and business entities, between business entities themselves, as well as between public sector entities. The subject of these contracts and transactions are the supply of goods and the provision of services with compensation, including construction and investment works, as well as municipal services. The invoice in terms of this, is a document accounting for the supply of goods, i.e. the provision of services in commercial transactions. The temporary or final situation is a document accounting for compensation for works and investments carried out and, within the meaning of this law, constitutes an appropriate request for payment. The non-compliance of these obligations shall be subject to sanctions, i.e. interest, calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Tight Interest Act, which shall enter into force and be applied from 1 January 2016. The intention to regulate this area is certainly to be welcomed because the scope of these transactions is certainly not small, regardless of what is mainly involved in the transfer of funds from one institution and body account to other institutions and bodies. This proposal will achieve a higher degree of financial discipline in the business of these institutions and bodies. By adding a new position 2 to the existing Article 4, it is foreseen that the time limit for payment between two public sector entities cannot be longer than 60 days, which falls within the existing frameworks of our legislation. The third shift envisions better and more efficient control of the entire area, financial transactions, as the Ministry of Finance's budgetary inspection will be carried out in the future with the help of the Treasury Administration, not just the Management Board as it has been so far. This law is accompanied by a new draft law on the payment of legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons who do not carry out their duties. This law will replace certain provisions of the Law on Payments which are still in force, new and more modern legal solutions. An obligation shall be made to pay all dinar cash received on any basis within a maximum period of seven days to the current account held by the company or entrepreneur by the banks or the Treasury Administration. Also, this law stipulates that cash payments of up to 600,000 dinars must be made immediately, and over that amount no later than the next working day. In particular, it is an important provision of Article 5 which provides that mutual obligations can also be settled through contractual transfer of bonds and legal relations, assignation, cesiums and the like, which will certainly create the possibility of faster payments and payments in business. Dear People's MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group, believes that these bill proposals are another contribution to creating a better climate for financial business, and thus to developing economic activities in general, and therefore, in the voting day, just as my colleague, authorised representative Mira Petrovic, will support all legislative proposals that are on the agenda these days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33405	The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33406	First of all, I apologize to the New Serbia MP for having to come out for a while, and he had specific questions at the time. One part of those questions will anyway, and it can be nicely answered by Minister Vujovic, I would like to hear what I heard and as far as my ministry is concerned. When it comes to homes of health, primary schools that are the founder of local self-government, the maximum staff must be viewed in relation to the entire organization. The fact that in some homes of health or schools there are employees who pay for local self-government, in fact in elementary schools not only, but only part of these jubilee awards, etc., and in health homes there are combined sources of resources, there are own resources. It's the consequence of one of the fundamentally unedited since the 1990s, when more states had no money, everyone had to figure it out. Now the introduction of financial discipline requires you to view the organization as a whole. So, you have to make sure there's no transfer, if the budget is going to determine the maximum for what's being paid out of the budget, and then you need local self-government to determine for your share. There is no process of coordination that will bring us to a really better organization. So we understand that it's not optimal, or it's not an ideal system, but we don't see in this system a better way to actually require institutions to improve their business. The second question is, and I need to think about whether now that we're starting to think about how many employees it takes to perform the functions that the population, the citizens of one municipality need above all, might not be better to transfer the whole decision to the local level and then seek responsibility in another way. These shared responsibilities that we now have in the state between not only, but especially between local and central levels take responsibility from each other for the result of business. So, in the end, we don't know if the poor structure of employees is the result of the ministry's decision or local self-government. This is how it will be viewed in relation to clear standards what it takes to do the job. He's so busy, which the funding structure will be, that's a special question. I see, behind your reaction if you want us to continue and talk later, if there are improvements very concrete, I'm always open to them. This is one of the troublesome things, but it's a system that doesn't put a clear responsibility for every single job in one place, so we know who's responsible. In this case, for the homes of health and education, funding is for the time being in full, i.e. in the largest part of the budget and must be in the ministries. When it comes to the case of a building inspector, we think the law now gives you the opportunity to find a solution to this situation. You can't rent a labor force employed by local self-government. Maybe there's some modality of an agreement that we can talk about again, that would make sure it's clear again where it's responsible, where the costs are, etc., but then it becomes exactly the kind of joint business that this law opens the door for. We may need to keep an eye on the formulation, but our goal is to open up the possibility of more creative solutions that do not remove responsibility clearly with anyone who hires and who does the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33407	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33408	Just two additional notes, so there's no misunderstanding, means the register. Folkly speaking, we now adopt the Register Act because what was provided for by the Budgetary System Act, Article 93, where it is said that the register, the content of the register, the management, the availability of the data will be resolved by sublegal acts, was no longer possible because the register contains personal information that requires the law to regulate the collection, analysis and availability of such data. That is why we are giving up the sublegislative act, or regulation that defines the register and we move on to this law that defines the register. That's the first thing, the need to define it by law. Secondly, we're expanding the content of the register with the information you mentioned that we normally have. What we're introducing new is what we're saying. Data, human data that currently does not exist in the register. So, a whole series of data that the Ministry of Public Administration and local self-government have defined to run, to analyse and manage the full staff structure of the public sector will be added to the register. It will be an additional effort in the next six months, to extend the register to the area. When it is finished, it will then move to the Ministry of Public Administration and Local Self-Government in the register, while the Treasury will continue to provide technical services until it is done. It's just been defined by this law. To be clear what we want to achieve, so we have data today, but we can't publish that data because we don't have a way of objectively checking in, it's just reporting all the users of the budget funds, and secondly, since we don't have the law, we can't consolidate. An example of a doctor working both at the clinic and at the university and at the Academy of Sciences we have no way to legally consolidate his income based on a unique home number of citizens, because that information cannot be collected and cannot be available to her until the law defines its use, that is, that is, the essence. As far as the other part is concerned about public enterprises, let me just point out one thing. Public undertakings are the subject of the state's influence on their level, efficiency, business and everything else, but not directly by law, but through annual work plans, programmes, strategies, restructuring etc., public enterprises established at the level of the Republic have their own management structures which, by law, have jurisdiction over these matters. Not the Republic, except through membership on boards, etc., to affect their policy. It can, through the approval of annual plans, business plans, employment plans and others, influence the approval of funds, which is why we need to regulate it in a different way, not this law. And the third note that the colleague already mentioned in the domain of building inspectors will all change the employment situation together. So, the decision on freezing, employment in December 2013 all the solutions were solutions on the proposal for resolution ministries that went to the approval and afterwards on a committee that approved limited employment quotas by the ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33409	I've allowed ministers, although they haven't responded to your answers, but I won't let us go back to work. After all, Vera Paunovic spoke. (Dragan Jovanovic, from the place: I was misread. ) I will not allow it back after they responded only after the discussion of Vera Paunovic, which is not exactly according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33410	I would like to thank the President, honourable ministers with fellow Members of Parliament, as he suggested in the principle debate our authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, our friend Dejan Radenkovic, the SPS will undoubtedly support a complete set of laws that we are discussing today. I will focus on two laws in my discussion. The law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees and the Law on specific conditions of sale of immovable property owned by the Republic of Serbia. Of course, there are quality solutions in the law that are related to the rationalisation of the public sector, and here you have our support, both from the aspect of respect for what the government is doing, which is the consolidation of the financial sector as a whole, and in the direction of raising the degree of efficiency of public services, units of local self-government, AP, and at the end of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. However, dear Minister, and Mr Vujovicu, as minister, I have to ask a few questions that are specifically related to the city I come from, and I was in some way stimulated by my respected colleague Dragan Jovanovic, so I expected that these questions would also be asked by my fellow citizen Jovan Markovic, but unfortunately these issues were lagging behind. I have to set them up to finally figure out if Uzice is really experiencing one dimension as a city, I'm not going to say discrimination, but in any case, a more unfavourable position than other cities. Why am I saying this? Because you pointed out in the opening statement that they would try to avoid that so-called. linear reduction in the number of employees. Is there any other danger for us in this situation? If it's not linear, then my city is really in one problem. Here's why, Uzice has 70,000 and more, maybe close to 80,000 inhabitants. Under the law, it is categorized under Article 8 of the Bill. If we take the parameters you proposed in the law, that the number of employees is limited to 11.50 per 1,000 inhabitants, that means that 900 people are less, I apologize to 900 employees, as a limiting number. If we subtract from 1,600 from 900, then that surplus will manifest itself through a large number and that is close to 700 employees who will have to be fired from the public sector. Dear Minister, that is a huge percentage of the Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade, that is over 40%. I'm asking a question to all of us here, because some other cities, perhaps not just Uzice, will be burdened with the only such, in my opinion, as a citizen of the town of Užica, with an unfair burden. The second question, if we are already going in that direction, which is why this parameter, and even those corrective parameters that you set out in the next position, does not adapt Article 8, to what a city can really endure. The pleasures found trouble on the one hand, and fortunately on the other side they endured many things, water shortages, water pollution, floods, etc. I hope we can handle this without a lot of burdens, too, if you respect these remarks that we, on behalf of the citizens of Užica, highlight. The question is, if we treat this number as an excess, a huge percentage, then how are we going to enable the functionality of the public sector, how will public enterprises function, how will public services function, how will the state administration function and all other sectors and organisational forms, which represent so-called. The public service of the citizens? Are we going to get into a situation where individual businesses, precisely because of this problem, have certain problems that can lead to collapse? Next question, again, I'm bonding with what's most practical for me to present to you and the fact that I'm pointing to problems. According to the 2013 census, Uzice had a total number of employees of 1.564 and in 2015 the figure was reduced by 53. So from 2013 to 2015, in Uzic, the number of public sector employees was reduced by 53, so that number was reduced to 1.511. Now if we add to my city with this parameter, I apologize, under the proposed law, then that's an additional percentage of the surplus that is, in fact, slightly unfair. The next question that will be raised here is about the danger of collapsing this law with some other law. Was it perhaps premature to solve this way, the question of the methodology of identifying surplus employees in the public sector? Why am I saying if he's in college with other laws for two reasons? Firstly, certain legislation prescribes standards that have been taken over by the EU as international employment standards in individual positions. For example, in the pools, the number of rescuers binds to the surface of the water. The town pool in Užica according to that standard, has to hire and employ nine rescue workers. Why nine? Because this is the standard that implies a standard of pool security, a standard that respects the position of security and security, and that standard implies an imperative standard. What does that mean? That means the obligation to have nine lifeguards. In this situation, if we start with this parameter whether we will have to come into this problem that we no longer have nine rescuers but, perhaps, I will paraphrasise seven, five, four and then come into collage with what the Standards which we have accepted and where we strive to accept literally everything that the EU requires of us, in order to become its permanent member and through which you are surely going and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but on the other hand, we are in this law coming into trouble. What will be the situation in kindergartens? The kindergartens also by standards mean the obligation of staffed educators to the number of children of certain age categories, and the standard must again be respected in the manner prescribed by this law. Then we come to a problem if we're going to have that number of employees that way, if these particular parameters apply to these situations. I also raised these questions on the Committee on Justice and State Administration, since I had the opportunity to exchange my views with your State Secretary. The next question that is being asked here, and I hope that by clarifying these questions, you will help my Uzics not to accept this as a sort of concern that there will be a literally social impact in the town of Uzic when it comes to the public sector. In order not to separate myself from the question, I will specifically ask and explain the problem relating to jobs that entail compliance with criteria both in terms of professional references and in practice. If at these jobs, according to the parameters set here, we reduce the number of employees and we have a natural pension outflow, the question arises how will we get the opportunity to hire those who will get the opportunity to take up that position after five years of work experience, this job, whether it be municipal, city administrations or other public services? So it's something that involves the deficit of the profession, and that deficit of the profession is a danger that it can't be replaced if we consistently apply this law. These issues, in any case, are merely expressed for the sake of being able to reconsider the full provisions of this law in terms of their practical application and the possible consequences of the practical application of this law, so that perhaps once again they can respond and in some way improve the provisions of this law. Of course, that in no way leads to doubtful support for a law that is unreserved. At the very beginning, I said, first of all, that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group and that it stands on the population that there are extra employees in the public sector, that this surplus employees, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in some way, must not, I say, be freed, but rationalised, but in any case by very clear criteria and criteria that imply what does not in any way undermine anyone under the principle of banning discrimination as a constitutional principle, literally so. I would no longer consider this law, given that all other provisions have from the point of view of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group of Serbia's affirmative support. Afirmative because not only is support enough, but it is also necessary to affirm everything that is stated here. It is also well-coordinated with what is related to the protection, that is, the supervision of the implementation of this law. It also seems to me that the good solutions that apply to both payment of cash and payment of severance fees are also good. I just need to draw attention to certain reactions that, in fact, have come due to insufficient participation in the public debate over this law. It is about the reactions of the Representative Union and it is about the reactions of some other social layers that are again linked to the public sector, which they believe could have improved the provisions or at least certain provisions of this law through public debate. Why? Because the representative union took the view that the government had, in the case of the adoption of the proposal, a fact-finding communication with only the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, and that the Representative Union was in a position to bypass it. Also, the Representative Union has a certain position regarding the payment of severance payments for the entire working century. Of course, I do not come forward on behalf of the Representative Union, but as a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Socialists, a member of my parliamentary group, I believe that only these are some questions that can only further enable you to answer everything that implies ambiguity with anyone who has not read or analyzed this law in time. The only thing that we, as a party fighting for a social justice programme, have the obligation to draw attention to you is to consider that the return of earnings under the Government of Serbia's regulation when it comes to public sector employees with medium-sized expertise to an amount of 24,000 dinars is not good because of a more social aspect of observation because it is a very low amount of earnings that is very close to the minimum sustainability of existence. So, in this direction, you should consider whether this way of defining the level of earnings, when it comes to middle-class people, or those with medium-level expertise, are employed in the public sector adequately rewarded for their work. As for the law governing the sale of special assets or immovable property owned by the Republic of Serbia, I must draw attention to the fact that we have one here or that we can have one problem that is more systemic. I will also speak to Mr Vujovic. Is the sale related to special property, such as apartments, such as garages, such as business space, a sale that meets the principles of bond law? Is it in line with the provisions of the Bond Law? Why am I saying this? Because, under this law, the exclusiveness to purchase this immovable property has exclusive leases. I would accept this solution if there were complete autonomy of the will of the contractor. I would accept this solution if there was a possibility that contractors would agree with each other that the tenant would have the right to an obstacle to purchase, which is allowed in bond relations to have the right to an obstacle to purchase, and that would not be disputed. By system resolution and by giving system-based exclusive services to tenants to appear as buyers, privileged, without anyone else, I don't think it's in accordance with what the Law on Bond Relations says, not in accordance with the principle of equivalence, it's not in line with the spirit of the bonding which otherwise is something that could not or should not have been avoided in this case. Of course, we at the SPS accept your reasons for filling the budget and for financial consolidation from this aspect, and here you have our support, but on the other hand we have to draw attention to only one real framework, to the principle of legality and everything that must be taken into account when the law is applied without being brought into a conflict situation with another law. Finally, I would like to point out once again that you have the support of the SPS parliamentary group, that you have support for this set of laws, that you will also make these remarks, as well as Mr Dragan Jovanovic's remarks, a further analysis and that, possibly through the amendments, in the debate in particular, we can make another move forward towards improving the quality of this law. Don't mind me being Užice, because Užice is not the only city in Serbia, it's not Užice's only unit of local self-government in Serbia that has to accept in some way all the solutions we're discussing here today, which we'll probably adopt in terms of the law, but I don't want as a citizen of Užica and those I represent, first of all, to put in a position with my voice, and we in the SPS parliamentary group, to carry a burden higher than I should. In any case, legal support exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33411	Dragan Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure? (Dragan Jovanovic, from town: Replica. You don't have the right to a replica, but you can do it by the Rules of Procedure. Don't replicate it, tell me what the injury is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33412	Article 104. I've been mentioned twice by the name and last name, I've been misread by the resolute minister Vujovic, so I'm asking you to give me on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allow me to have the right to have a replica and to say what I wanted and what I was misread. On the other hand, from my colleague Jovanovic, I was mentioned twice by the name and last name. So once again, I ask you to give me a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33413	The very fact that a name and name are mentioned is not the basis for replication. (Dragan Jovanovic, from the city: Misreading. The minister says he didn't misread you. (Dragan Jovanovic, from the place: What is this way? I don't know what that is now, but the minister has the right to say he didn't misread you. We're not here to have this conversation right now. I don't mind, but simply when something doesn't stand, it doesn't stand. Minister Kori Udovici is asking for a word to respond to Nejji Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33414	Thank Ambassador Jovanovic for his comprehensive commentation and suggestions. We are still open to any concrete suggestion with which we can improve this law. In particular, I have to say, in connection with the case of Uzice, that we have, for example. The town of Loznica and Sremska Mitrovica, where both have more inhabitants than Užica, and Loznica has 910 employees and Sremska Mitrovica 1,082. I'm not saying that they're necessarily proof that the Užice can come down to that number. I point to these examples just to explore and look at the reasons for such a huge difference in the number of employees between Užic and these two places. However, in any case, we have time to investigate it and we have time to make adjustments later on in the law. In this first interaction, in this, when we determine the maximum by the end of the year, even in places that have, say, 40% more employees than it is normative, we will not determine anyone to reduce, that they must reduce the number of employees by more than ten percent. We're still working and we're trying to figure out how much of it there is now that maybe it can go down the drain so we don't have to figure it out, so to speak, these maximums regardless of the drain, and that's why it's not over yet. However, in any case, we will have time to correct the criteria for the coming years so that this restriction, as set out in this law, may have become a serious problem for some places that have, for example, really justified reasons that we were not aware of when we put the corrections for everything we put it for. I'm going back to the fact that this isn't the perfect system. This is not how you manage the number of employees in local self-government, in public enterprises in more orderly systems, but this is the way to do something better than linear right now and start this process that you've just started with your discussion. We're open. We've now set an example for you of the other two cities and now let's compare one thing at a time. Thank you. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33415	I can't give it to you. As a colleague, either you both get or you don't get one. Since I turned him down, I can't really. The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33416	The respected chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today we have one set of laws that includes the practical continuation of reform laws in the area of finance and one part relating to economic reforms and laws that have long been announced, and that is exactly what the obligation of the IMF treaty is to create a new state administration that needs to be more efficient, which should show practically that it can deal with new tendencies, namely what Mr Vujovic said, with the withdrawal of third-generation investment. As a state, we are not ready for all these changes that otherwise exist in the EU and the world, and simply because of great progress and when I talk about technical and technological terms and in the investments monitored by these technological and technological developments in the world, Serbia as a country that wants to be a member of the EU must then, in a certain way, deal adequately with its employees in the state administration. The first law we talked about and listened to a lot, which caused, let me say, one controversy and an attempt to show in a different way the law on special conditions of selling certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia. It is a law that states that it gives opportunity to all people who are hired in a formal legal relationship with the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, to buy their property at market value based on ransom requirements. Whether it's an apartment or a business space, it's completely irrelevant, but it should be said that such contracts have existed years ago. So these contracts are tens of years old. What's good is that they don't fall for consular representations in all of this and what has to be said, and I don't think it's that much of a point, is that it's state property, that people who have acquired such contracts have usually worked in state institutions. Their bosses and their directors and their boards simply agreed on such types of contract, adopted as one act or public enterprises or local or state institutions, and then as such they simply resolved the housing issues of civil servants. That's the law in that domain, and there was one. Now, after so many years, you can see that there have been many abuses, the type that most of these people who didn't live in those apartments could have blacked out that kind of property, which, of course, when you now have the possibility of buying out in a certain way you're forming a practically contractual relationship between these natural persons and the state. On the other hand, if we're going to talk about the DRI report, which came to this Assembly on July 15, 2015, about how the state has its assets at its disposal in the possession of RS, you'll see that it made recommendations to the government for some four points and the Republic Property Directorate how to deal with this particular property. In the end, this kind of law will have its economic effects. All the money that will be from the sale of immovable property will be transferred to the RS budget and thus will be evaluated by the Republic Public Revenue Administration depending on local self-government in which certain properties are located, the state will benefit. What is important is to say that the bill on the payment of legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons represents one arrangement that we have so far had in payment traffic, but there are certain parts of the payment management process itself which was not covered and these proposals are precisely defined. When we come to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, then I would disagree with some previous speakers who have said that such a law has been passed on to a shortcut, that so far something has not been shown in practice. I'll just remind you that the law that was passed first in this assembly majority after the 2012 elections was just the Public Procurement Act, that there were many laws that were practically related to the modernisation of this process. This is primarily the Alert Act, then the National Anti-Corruption Strategy adopted last year from 2013 to 2018, and finally we come up with the most important third draft – the Action Plan for the negotiations for Chapter 23, which is highly related to the EU Directive 24 which was adopted last year. So we're bound to change this law. Why? That's why we're opening negotiations. We hope that Chapter 3 will be opened. Therefore, we need to bring this directive into line with our public procurement legislation procedure, and there will simply be a lot to show that it is good that such a law was passed in 2012, that everything that was bad indicators of this law falls. First of all, you had a 17% share of small purchases in total public procurement in 2013, and in 2014 decreased to 8%. We heard here that the process and the negotiation process itself fell from 28% to 5%, which is practically a European standard. What's important is that you will now have one portal that will not only be a public procurement portal, but offers will be made through that portal, but the public procurement plan will be published on that portal. So everyone will be available what the institution plans to get. So you simply prepare suppliers for this kind of procedure. So that transparency should be shown in full capacity. What is important is that so far it has not been used in Serbia by the framework agreement instrument, which is characteristic of open procedures and restrictive procedures. So he's tied to large public procurement. Now practically with these instruments and these legal solutions will be fully opened. Finally, it should be said that as far as the Public Procurement Act is concerned, it will certainly give its good indicators and the consequences of this adoption, especially when we are talking about the application of this directive, education, health care, culture, which simply won't allow for six months more, just because certain suppliers who are not satisfied with the public procurement process are not satisfied that they were even more expensive, and they did not win the tender, simply delaying the application for public procurement. What is important is that this set of laws relating to changes and additions to the Law on Public Debt should be welcomed, because the principle that has so far been applied is limited when we talk about guarantees from public enterprises. First of all, because you are reducing this cost-effectiveness and abolishing this term of counter-guarantee, which is practically, I think, a relic of the past from that law while there was still a common state of Serbia-Montenegro, so Serbia has given counter-guarantee for certain guarantees in public enterprises, and even some state institutions that were half-enterprise and half state-owned companies. What is yet to be suggested is that with this bill, which speaks of the deadlines for the settlement of cash flows, in 60 days you introduce one stability and the security of all those who want to be with the state. By 2012, we had a fully active picture of the supplier. First of all, no one wanted to show up for public procurement competitions because of the bad Public Procurement Act. Secondly, they simply had no confidence in the state that they would ever be paid off by the end of their contracts. That's why about you, when it comes to public procurement, you had one, two, possibly three suppliers that appear, and most often one. As a result, many public procurement procedures were predetermined. So this 60-day payout security, so far we have had 45 days as a commitment, and there have been some demands that it be 90, let the measure that two months is the deadline in which the state should settle its obligations, and on the basis of later reports that exist in relation to the commissions that will determine whether the job is truly completed is completely optimal. Finally, it should be said, as regards the financial extension contract in general, projects relating to the Clinical Centre, Phase A and B for 2019, that this is fully in line with that projects really do not need to end ad hoc, but should work as long as they need to be withdrawn in terms of work. So, you don't have to pay in advance what's not finished, but you just really need that terming project funding to be within the time frame of how it's defined by the project. This delay until 2012 I see only something that shows one responsibility and stability to the execution of such important projects as the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre. In the end, we come to these two laws relating to the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government. When we talk about how to determine the number of employees in the public sector, then it should be said that, in practice, clear criteria are now defined which will apply to public sector work. Everyone used to run to get a job in the public sector, but now that you're in a situation where you need to have a certain professional training, with certain interests for a particular job, with a certain practice or work experience for that job, and when you get into a situation where you need each of the employers, and that's what I'm talking about for local self-government, the presidents of the municipalities and the local self-government chiefs are going to have to choose the best people they can work with today, and they're being squeezed with the number of people and that pay box, then they'll certainly choose the best. It will practically stop that part that was some practice to be employed on a party line, and we have heard that not only employment, but also public procurement went in that direction. Now it's just not possible. The Serbian Progressive Party has decided to stop the party's employment, and now by rationalising and optimising jobs, you will get an adequate organisational structure when we talk about employees. So let's say it's one process. It should be said that when it comes to 8923 public sector employees in this year, it is necessary to apostrophe that 3008 workers go to a natural outflow in pensions, i.e. they remain practically those jobs in that system of rationalisation and optimization, and that this number which includes both a technological surplus and the part relating to cancellations, i.e. severances that are defined by collective agreements, and some will also be certain sublegal acts when we talk about severances, then it should be said that a number – 1353, which should be employed in certain systems, because we cannot allow professional people to leave the state administration. Especially when we talk about these 493,508 employees, that half of them are in the republican authorities, and half of them in local self-government, when we talk about sectors that are in the state administration somewhere in excess, which are health, education, the MUP and the Serbian Army, then we talk mostly about a certain administrative part of the employees. When we talk about some places that need a profession, which we tend to say that professional people are always in short supply, and especially when we talk, say, about doctors, when you talk about certain places that are related to certain sophisticated parts of medicine and the work of health institutions, then you need to be very careful when we talk practically about that list of people who should take benefits or take severance fees. Finally, when we talk about this proposal for a register law, it should be commended that, finally after 20 and a few years, Serbia should receive a register of all public finances employees, so to speak, because they are all practically on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It means that the section relating to the employee register includes elected persons, and there are MPs and council members of municipalities and cities and provinces. Therefore, we also have appointed persons, all those related to the executive part of the government, as well as all those related to the appointed and engaged persons. We'll finally know who's in what status, whether someone's in temporary status, whether or not it's in particular, if it's indeterminate. We'll know exactly what the gross and net salary is on that list. After all, you'll know exactly what the budget is. So far, we've been wandering around all the time and saying if it's all about health care and education, whether it's together with public enterprises 780, is it something less, whether it's something more, etc., but now we're going to have the exact same register on which simple state control is going to be exactly parallel to this when we're talking about streamlining jobs, and that's going to apply not only to local self-government employees, but also to politicians, because we have before us the adoption of the statutes of capitals, and we're facing a change of practically the Law on Election Law. So many things will change here in Serbia. Therefore, all segments of society, and those who practically withdraw financial resources from the budget, will change and that is what is good. The state will become more efficient, rational and essential when you have on one side the opening and inflow of foreign direct investment and new jobs strengthening the private sector, practically rationalising and optimising the state sector, you come to practically this economic growth and development, which we simply haven't been able to think about for the past ten years. I thank you all for trying in an adequate way to explain these bill proposals, given that there is a complete lack of understanding in the public what it means to rationalise public places in the state administration and that there are practically those people who are trying with inadequate arguments to scare public sector employees. Simply, we are all surrounded by certain changes and a system of functioning, both private enterprises and state and state administration, and all need practically these changes, not only to adapt, but to respond in an adequate manner. It's a good thing you mentioned that there will be new education, preorientation, in terms of profession, training, because I think that only by learning essentially we can progress as a state administration and as a state, that we can carry out these strategic projects that are simply interested in building here, that's what we need to bring some new value, some new jobs in the private sector. In voting day, this set of laws will surely be supported by the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33417	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go, Mr. Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33418	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Vujoviću, Mrs. Udovici, first of all, let me thank you for coming here to defend these very unpopular laws, especially for you, Mrs. Udovici, because it certainly is not popular when you have to tell people that they will be fired. But luck follows the brave. You know, the one who decides to take unpopular measures, eventually, will be appreciated by the people in some future. I have to admit, Mr. Vujovic, I'm a great opponent of what the IMF has been doing here in the first place, but what we're bringing here today is sort of an introduction. Otherwise, I think there's just been an irregular IMF policy in these areas, because they're all these people who have had one extremely savage, if you will, neoliberal concept, so not that neoliberal concept that's healthy, but that's one savage, where you've had a completely single robbery privatisation, the destruction of everything that the state has had, they've looked favorably at it. They never warned anyone, until 2011, 2012, when they began to comment on the truly irrational spending of money and resources from our budget because they themselves saw that the money coming here was going to ask God where and that it was not going to benefit the citizens at all. Now, it's a good thing they're proposing this today and it's a good thing we're going to adopt it, but where good luck that we never had to get into a situation like this to adopt. Mr. Jelasic recently gave an interview for the NIN. I read the interview very carefully, when he asked journalists, especially for an increase in pensions, which was extremely irrational, by 10% increased pensions in 2008, he asked, among other things, the then executives in this country -- on which you think you give pensioners those 10%, they said – so it was agreed by a coalition agreement. You know, this is where the economy was run on the basis of a coalition agreement. It wasn't based on some rational understanding, or as much as you earn, you can spend it. We had a completely demented concept, which is -- let's go with voters, buy voters, and that way, so we can survive in power. Thank God, it was interrupted in 2012. If that hadn't happened, we would have been in Greece today, no problem at all, and the question is whether we could ever get out, given that someone in that period, and that Mr. Jelasic confirms, was taking loans at 7.28% interest, and that in dollars, without wanting to take care of the risk, eventually, because the dollar can strengthen, for example. The euro to fall, no one's taken care of it, he's been taking off-limits. We're bringing it back today, dear citizens, so you know. We today from this period in this year have to return the interest, I mean, correct me you, Mr. Vujovic, a billion and 300m euros somewhere about interest should be returned, which is a complete disaster. But you can't get out of this skin and that's why laws like this have to be passed. First, about this law on this situation regarding the rationalization of the state administration. Sorry God we have a situation today that, here, Mrs. Tomic explained it very nicely, so professorly, we have a big problem today that we don't have enough people, for example. Inspections. You have a situation in the IRS, for example. He's only got six tax inspectors. Does anyone really think that six inspectors can cover the entire territory of such a municipality? Well, there's no way. But that's why we piled up in the administration so many people that you don't know who gets into work and one computer as many of them do. Now when it's said that you have to fire someone, then suddenly those who have otherwise advocated such a concept jump, they say, "Oh, you don't mean people." Well, I guess someone has to think about the state and that budget. Well, we can't put money in something that has absolutely no productivity. What productivity was it to hire so many people in the administration? We don't have any product capacity today. We've ruined the economy, but that's why we put so many people on the budget that one China can't handle, not Serbia. So what you're doing right now is unpopular, but I congratulate you just because you're doing such an unpopular measure. It's something that needs to be done. As it wasn't popular to tell people – we have to cut your salary and pension because people won't accept it, but you know what, there was no other solution. All those who oppose this shall say what they are for. Are we still going to pour money into the restructuring companies? Are we still gonna pour money into the administration? Are we going to keep destroying the economy, taking credits to infinity, and really doing nothing about production? What I have to say about self-employment is that no one here wants, I guess it's not popular, that someone writes some praise about the government, let's say, we have a fantastic work of labour inspection, because we've reduced the number of unemployed, among other things, one part of it because those who kept the workers blacked out to report the workers. I'm rooting right now because on August 1st, Mrs. Udovici, she's supposed to start by applying a new inspection law, that even more severe inspections are working. You have to force both the tax and the labour inspection and all the other inspections to be even more rigid, because there has to be order in the state. I must also commend the law you plan to pass, which is what we are all planning here to declare, the draft law on special conditions of selling certain immovable property. It's something that's really revolutionary. Until recently, we had no record of what we have of property, especially immovable property, what the Republic of Serbia has all. Then you had incredible situations. For example, someone in an organ knows that for example. That organ, let's say, if you work in the D.A.'s office, you know there's a state apartment somewhere, so you tell someone -- go, like, keep that apartment, and then eventually you get to that apartment in a magical way, by reducing its price, etc. Now, this is something really revolutionary. It is established that someone will finally assess these immovableities that the state owns and finally write them down, that we know what we have, so that the state can make money. I'm reading today that someone has given an assessment that the state could make huge funds here and I absolutely support it. As, of course, I also support this register law because it's amazing, I think Mr. Krstic, while he was your predecessor, talked about it, that we didn't have any lists of people working in the public sector at all. We had no idea who we were paying. That's an amazing thing. You give money somewhere, and you don't know who works for you. Finally, now and then, we're going to introduce some order and I think it's something that's very good and that should certainly be supported. What I have to say and praise you for this bill on payment by public sector suppliers, you know, we've now had one extremely insidious situation, so people do their jobs so nobody pays anything. Then you wait until someone pays you that money, you forget when you're going to get it. Now that's something that's really good, there's discipline going on, within 60 days you have to pay the suppliers, and that's something that anyone would really normally support. This is where you'd stay at the Public Procurement Act. I see the incredible criticism of the previous changes that were brought here in 2012 and the criticisms are going in that direction -- that's what you didn't achieve. I'm sorry, but how come you didn't achieve what you wanted? It may not be the number in saving so much, but it's certainly, you have a terrible savings and you have a drop in corruption in public procurement. It's a fantastic fall. We've had a situation in public procurement the following way, you've got a negotiation procedure without publishing a public call and you're exactly setting up the companies you want, or companies where your party friends are owners. That's how they got the job. I don't want to talk, because you've robbed public enterprises so much that they're really inconceivable proportions, because, especially those who have a monopoly. For example, if they're supposed to pay for the ad, you watch out for monopoly companies paying for advertising to some media and then you know exactly which media should get that job, so you pull out one 10, 20 million dinars, depending on how the media, to actually pay for a future election campaign. It's broken now. We have a fall, just like that, a negotiation procedure without publishing a public call from only 5%. That's very positive. Now, of course, there are some problems where public procurement is being stopped, where some institutions have run out of elemental resources, but here this is now being fixed and hopefully, the elementary means to work, because, indeed, there was some registration, it's good that it's being seen and it's going to be fixed now. You know, what was better, do you save 100 million euros, which, I think, seems to me, is somewhere so much an estimate of that savings, or is it allowed to continue to rob the state? Well, I think this was much better to save that money, no matter what we had certain of those anomalies that are mentioned here, but this law is now fixing it and that is, of course, for every praise. counterpart Tomic explained this very well about the public debt. Finally, that's where the order is being introduced. We finally take off the back of those who suck our money and who somehow made us such a public debt. I think this is something that's really good and I really don't see any reason why anyone would vote against such laws. The fact is, it can be made by amendments as much as it can be fixed in certain segments, but it seems to me that we are slowly becoming a state and that this is where the order is introduced. We've been such a country so far that the tycoons actually wrote laws. That's what destroyed this country the most. They adapted all these laws to themselves and their needs. This is where the state finally gets in the way and becomes, indeed, an institution, or becomes someone we can believe in. So far, we've really had a big problem, precisely because of the anomalies I've listed to believe in at all in the institution of the state. This is the first time the law has been passed and I hope that the state will have the strength to implement it and that it will show its strength in relation to those who have adapted the laws to themselves and of course I will support something like this with all my heart when the day of the vote comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33419	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33420	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate in principle consists of a set of economic laws that regulate economic functioning, some and fiscal regulation. Basically in these nine laws, I can identify seven technical and two that change things. In a unique record of immovableity, there are 551,946 units in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. public property, i.e. social property, state property and public property. The number of these entries is not equal to the number of immovableities owned by the Republic of Serbia. The property of the Republic of Serbia is in fact the property of all its citizens, and it is entrusted with the availability and management of some people working in the state administration. The Republika Srpska Assembly has its responsibility, primarily as a legislative body that defines the functioning of the Republic of Serbia's assets. The bill came somehow at the same time as the DRI report on the purpose of using immovable property in the Republic of Serbia. The property of the Republic of Serbia is 683 billion dinars or half of budget revenues in one fiscal year. And that's only 20% of the total amount of assets, because the rest of the 80% doesn't have any value. That 20% is actually an asset that doesn't go through the revaluation process, so that's why its price is so low. The state of Serbia has made revenue of six billion out of its assets over one fiscal year, in particular in 2013, with only 852 million dinars or 0.08822% of total budget revenues planned for 2013. Two thousand 652 entries have no species code, 27 thousand 520 entries have no area data, 30 thousand 330 entries no address, 43 thousand 907 entries no data on cadastrian plot, 165 thousand 147 entries no data on species. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't imagine when a tax inspection, tax control, other state control authorities enter some small, large company on the periphery of a big city and ask the owner, the accountant, the competent person, to say what's in the basic funds records, and then they say, what the State Auditor told us we have some property, that we've bought something, we don't know when and at what cost, that we're paying something and we don't know who, and what we leased is not at market price, and nobody pays it. Of course we're all aware that such a situation is impossible in our country. Another example, this is an example of the entry of property, as we have the property of Serbian citizens. So, if I'm not talking street in Belgrade, it's a central street in downtown Belgrade, there's a lease of living space, 2.11 euros per square metre, and 4.7 euros, respectively. Average market price 5.7. The business space on that street is issuing a cepo price of 13.06, and the locale next to it the same size, the same owner, the same structure, for 7.4 euros. This second one's 56% cheaper. It's all in the report on page 68, and if you turn two more pages in the report, on page 70, you'll see that even those bars don't pay. The government has no control over the availability of assets and immovable property. Now you can however you want to say it's the result of the previous decades that it is. The previous generations that didn't take account, but the fact is that one bureaucratized state apparatus that's been operating for years hasn't accounted for. They received salaries from the Republic of Serbia's budget on the property of the Republic of Serbia. Today I hear that we need to activate this property market, put it into operation. I am convinced that she is already in office only that income from that function is not in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It must change and must not be left to future governments and future generations after us. So today this bill is very important and crucial, it's a very simple, simple law that consists of 12 members, 12 facts that are unquestionable. Let's see what the benefits of this law are. First of all, it is crucial to talk about increasing and reducing the fiscal deficit, in fact, we assume that by selling assets, we will make bigger revenues, it will be transferred over other revenues to the Republic of Serbia's budget, to the revenue side, and thus we will continue the pace of reducing the fiscal deficit that is necessary for the macro-economic parameters to start functioning. There's a nice fossil here, a fiscal deficit and a reduction. Fiscal consolidation, in fact, needs to be told the citizens of Serbia the truth. Yeah, we're raising money to pay the commitments made in previous years to international institutions in terms of different credit arrangements and the International Monetary Fund didn't come today, it came the moment we re-indebted. Of course there is another effect. By reducing the basic funds, we will make practically owned by the Republic of Serbia that the expenditure side of the budget is different. We're going to make the cost of these basic assets smaller, and at the same time we're going to make it possible for the tenants, that one part of the funds that has been transferred, and they're the owners, go back to payment traffic, and they're going to solve key business and housing decisions and everything in accordance with Article 6 where we clearly define the way in which the market price is going to be transferred. Of course, the real estate market will also develop, as the primary one will first appear on the market a significant number of objects, while at the same time in the process of transport which is undeniable on the secondary market will have effects. The proposal for this law is certainly in that one form of property that is now in state property will turn into a more functional, much better, more efficient private form of property. One of the concerns that is certainly present is Article 5, and it speaks of the right to buy property. I am sorry that Mr. Vujovic is not here, because I think the government had a desire to preserve the appropriate social component. You know, if you're a ten, 20-year ten-year ten-year ten-year leaser, and you're not in a position to buy that apartment today, and that apartment is sold by some market mechanisms, you're in a situation where this family has serious and significant problems. So I can understand that absence clearly from the market mechanism in the sale of fixed assets. This bill and the DRI report actually have two conclusions and two things to go through. The first is that the state of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, the Committee on Budgets, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly must solve the problem of enrolment and availability of the property of the Serbian state, because since 1996, we have done it eight times through different laws and regulations and it is clear that today we are not effectively and effectively controlling the property. The second thing is to stop lending the property of the Republic of Serbia which is primarily not used and should be practically on the market, under clear market mechanisms, alienated from users who do not know how to manage it. For me, for my neighbors in Kragujevac, it's totally irrelevant whether the state of Serbia, whether we as citizens have millions of per cent of the property in an apartment in Belgrade, because if we have mud in the streets, barracks from schools, infrastructure that isn't done, that's what we're interested in. That's not what the Minister of State has provided us with. I'm listening today to talk about the law on layoffs, on rationalization not, this law on effective and effective state administration. That's the point. Because when you say that the state administration is paid out of the republican budget, the budget of local administrations, it's actually only partly true. Schools, buildings, infrastructures missing from my neighbors are also paid. When you give from the local administration budgets 30% to 40% and when it's employees' expenses, when public enterprises at the bar have 80 to 90% of employee expenditure, when individual ministries have 90% in employee spending, how can you talk about maintenance, not talking about investment. The key question that I am asking is, and what is the public sector for us, is it a social institution or is it an institution that should enable Serbian citizens to live better in investment? Public sector employees in local administrations, the state administration, all without exception, public enterprises, have been functioning on principles for 50 years that have not changed. It is a matter of entrusting state-owned businesses, trusting jobs very often in very profitable branches, giving them and these institutions a monopoly. In fact, we have a problem because we have a monopoly in highly profitable jobs, where you don't make profits at all, and only extra profits at all, and in fact you have institutions that do business with loss. It's the same situation with employees. You don't have the frustration of labour in these institutions, so practically nothing happens. Of the three worst monopolies that can exist, you have a monopoly that is a state monopoly over control and the inability to enter freely into a branch and another bad monopoly theoretically, monopoly labour force. Only the third monopoly is on the market. It is indisputable that the service provided by the State through its institutions is fixed. It's a request you can't change. It is indisputable that education, education, public sector something must be used, but it is not proof of acceptability, the fact that it is done by a company, an institution that is state-owned. This law, the future law, had to fundamentally change the understanding of the state, local administration, and the user, or someone who entrusted jobs on behalf of citizens, working in their best interests. It trusts companies owned by it and the burden of citizens paying for inefficiency. I don't have any dilemma. Let's do a public sector demonopolization, let's put all this education, health care, public services into competition, and let's put a citizen of Serbia who is essential, seven and a half million people at the centre to decide for themselves, so they can say, "I'll buy a school service here, a health care service here, a service in local administration, a communal business, I just don't want to pay any more for taking out garbage if I'm not in the country." I don't want to pay for parking on the streets, but where the garages are made. Ladies and gentlemen, demonolyzing everything is the essence of economic growth. Demopolization actually means conquering economic freedoms. There's not a single employee in the state administration today who's the only one who knows how to do business and nobody else. Maybe he's the only one who manages to do it, but it's the result of the state monopoly. When you say today...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33421	Mr. Kovacevic, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33422	This is the topic, Mr. Becic. I understand that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33423	If you think the topic is to continue, but we have a reaction from the MPs that you are not on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33424	This law doesn't make us lose jobs today because jobs can't be lost because there's a demand for these products. We're actually doing this law to demonolyze the different packing of those who do these jobs. Deleting a privileged position in the state administration certainly is a problem, but that's a problem, first of all, a psychological category and the fact that time doesn't stand, it changes. Therefore, if we want serious changes and serious developments, such laws are necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33425	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic. (Not here) The word of the Messenger of the people is Radmilo Kostic. (Not here) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Matic. Here you go, Mr. Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33426	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I will remain exclusively in the law, that is, the bill on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees. I won't be long, since this is a rationalization law, so we need our speeches to be rational. The interest of each local self-government is that it has an optimal framework, i.e. an optimal number of employees in local self-government, i.e. a complete local organisation, i.e. in the public sector at local level. It is simply the interest of every local self-government to have that number, to be able to carry out its jobs for the benefit of citizens and other users, without having too many, to simply remain larger funds for the total local economic and infrastructure development. For the first time, the easiest thing was to linearly reduce the number of employees in the public sector, but surely this is a much, much better solution, so that practically those local self-governments that were acting rationally, etc., are not in the status to suffer the mistakes of some others who had been unplanned and received a lot of workers in the public sector during previous periods. There's something I want to comment on here. As far as local level is concerned, there is a single framework, so the local level within individual public enterprises will determine the optimal number of employees in these public enterprises. The minister here said, in one part, I think the answer was to a certain question, that it would later be done, likely to enter deeper into local self-government in terms of public enterprises, and to get an optimal number of workers in public enterprises, for example. The water line. I'm not sure if these are good solutions at local level, because if we measure everything and normize it, then we don't give space to local self-government for some part of our creativity, etc., and I think that's where we should think fat. Any responsible local self-government will do a pretty good job. Why do we have a large number of employees at the bar? I think it's an irresponsibility of local leadership. I think it was here, maybe this isn't fully established, but certain funding at local level or double financing of republics, locals. It is simply my suggestion that, since the finance minister is here and the minister, simple legal solutions that come, such as funding education, primary and secondary, simply did not prove to be good, neither management nor funding. There's just no responsibility. If there's no responsibility, then it can't work. I want to comment and, say, work, not the work of the tax administration, but the division of the local administration. We have two tax administrations, parallel. I think they cost a lot more than one tax administration, and the local tax administration is one division of the republican tax administration. I think we're making double expenses. The municipality I worked in is below the line and I want to comment on something that I think needs municipalities, and it's a communal inspection. This is simply lacking in the functioning of municipalities, there is simply a lack of municipal inspection, and I think we should quickly look for solutions for community inspection. I think this law on determining the maximum number of public sector employees makes sense and thus solves the problem and I will support it along with my parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33427	Thank you, Mr. Matice. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33428	Thank Ambassador Matic for his comments. I'd just like to make it clear that there's no mistake to interpret what I said. I don't think that we need to make more and more regulations about how local self-governments should actually hire and get deeper and deeper into it, on the contrary. I thought, more like an answer, although I said it before MP Jovanovic said, in these three years, if we find out in the dialogues now that we too have these criteria here, we have to adjust because, let's say, Uzice has some strong reasons for having a lot more employees than Loznica and Sremska Mitrovica, let's work out. Anyway, we want to provide this as an instrument to all local self-government, to start developing some standards in an indicative sense. The real goal of the reform is that over three years, which is why this law is armed, these things are determined on the basis of ordinary financial discipline. You won't be hiring where people aren't needed and throwing money away, if you can actually invest better in developing new jobs, improving the work of the entire local self-government, investments, etc. But not yet the entire system of responsibility is well placed. I welcome this thinking of Mr. Matic about seeing what jurisdiction we need to fully transfer to the locale, which jurisdiction should be completely transferred to the center, and this is how it is now just creating a lack of responsibility for us. That's where we agree 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33429	Mr Milos Tosanic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33430	Respect for the chairman, Vice-Presidents, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this set that has been before us since nine laws, I will refer most to amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement. This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement immediately shows that it has sought to simplify the law itself as well as to change certain attitudes. This greatly facilitates the application of the law itself, facilitates, or reduces the procedures necessary, and is prescribed by the current Public Procurement Act. As the first advantage of the new law, it is that certain points are deleted from certain members, i.e. attitudes that are realistically excessive, which only complicates the application of the law, as well as that individual attitudes can be interpreted in several ways, which must not be the case, because every position, or every member in any law, should also be clear to all and unequivocal in any case. As a second advantage, I would point out the change, i.e. the addition of individual views in the members, and that is very important, because by changing only a few words in the very position of a member, its essence, domain of application, as well as the restriction that it sets, and as far as the Public Procurement Act is concerned, I think it has special importance and special weight. I'll give you an example this time. In point two, three is deleted, where it is also deleted that, I quote, the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance for Public Procurement Affairs at the beginning of the financial year, determines the list of contracting entities, which I quote, on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance and the Public Procurement Administration, sets out the list of contracting entities referred to in point (1) of Article 1 of this law, to complete the quote. I would like to point out that this new paper is truly fully justified and maximumly meaningful from all aspects and eliminates the restriction that the list of contracting entities must be established at the beginning of the financial year. This greatly facilitates the work of large enterprises, as it is very difficult to plan purchases for the whole year, and the possibility of opening new public procurement if it is necessary to increase the size of business. This is, to a certain degree, the progress of both businesses and businesses in general, because because of one inappropriate attitude, the company has to wait for a new budget year, and this is a long period of time today, especially when we know that every step taken today must be three steps ahead of it because of everything that has been done behind it. Each of the changes in the new law has more concrete objectives. For example, there are simplified public procurement procedures that directly affect the reduction of total costs, as well as the time needed to make purchases real. The next factor is compliance with the European law, more specifically Directive 24/2014, which is very important for Serbia because we are on our way to EU entry, which should also allow easier EU accession. Also taken into account the comments made by the tenderers on certain failures of the current law, which proves that all proposals that will help to bring about appropriate changes and all in order to achieve as much efficiency, economic and efficiency as possible of the companies themselves as possible as well as of the economy as possible. The next essential item is the introduction of a proactive procedure in the proposals for amending the law, which clearly implies a view of the future, i.e. a way of thinking in the long run. This implies that some areas will be prosperous and therefore prepare a law that will not limit this prosperity for a few years, but will again be a situation for which the law will create unnecessary problems and, of course, costs. Therefore, this bill is very useful, because all the changes it cites are of great importance, both for the current and the next periods. Another important thing that needs to be mentioned and cannot be left out, and this bill regulates them as a very important segment, is the issue of corruption. The new Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, in addition to the transparency it had in its previous content, is now raising it to an even higher level than the mechanisms for stronger supervision of all procedures, which should lead, and I am sure it will, to an even greater reduction in corruption. This bill clearly lays down provisions governing that part of the law, which will largely protect the lieutenants and tenderers and lead to the creation of real competition, which will largely avoid the situation where no bidders appear in the competitions performed, which again entails the full opening of competitions, re-consumption, pro-production stalemate if the purchase of the repromaterials or raw materials needed for work, etc. Finally, another great advantage of this bill is that it is implemented in almost all areas, and thus it is a very high efficiency. I'll point out, of course, that nothing is perfect and forever. But by perfecting this Law on Public Procurement as well as the adoption of others in this entire set that are on the agenda today, it is precisely because this is one step towards a better, more perfect and more fruitful tomorrow. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, Minister of the Ministry, I wish the government a lot of success in the work, and I thank everyone else for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33431	Thank you, Mr. Tosanic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33432	Madam Minister, Mr. Minister, members of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues, I will really not be in debt since colleagues before me, started with Alexandra, through Goran and Tosanic, have said a lot about all the laws. In the end, the arguments given by both ministers were extremely correct. I'll just say that these are affirmative laws and that all nine laws say exactly what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, that it is trying to establish a state and that Serbia is finally one regulated state. After all, this says first and foremost these two draft laws in order to determine the maximum number of employees in the public sector, where the time has finally come to see how much it really takes for people to work in the public sector, as well as the proposal for a law on the register of employees of selected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons in public funds. It's something perfectly normal, and I would disagree with some of the previous debaters who have said that such records already exist in cities. There are. Yes, but they are neither good nor comprehensive, especially when it comes to, and here they are not touched by this draft law of a public institution where they have certain incomes, or earning certain funds, and from these funds finance, above all, the receipts of their employees. What I would like to mention from these other seven legislative proposals is, above all, the law concerning sales, i.e. estrangement of certain immovableities in RS property. Today we listened and I am surprised that individual representatives of opposition parties, or opposition MPs, did not even read the bill. They were talking about RS-owned immovableities. Here is only one small piece of immovableity, and this is what the minister said and pointed out at the beginning of his presentation – these are only the immovableities inherited from the old state, by the SFRY and the rest here are owned, and no intentions are brought in, so they are not used by any ministry or any public institution or public enterprise. First of all, it's about apartments and a certain number of joints. I think that this legal proposal is extremely correct, that all these proposed solutions, starting with an assessment, are quite normal to assess the conduct of the Tax Administration, as well as to the part that prescribes that up to 25% of the investments invested in certain immovableities will be recognised to the tenant who enjoys it in the last 15 and 20 years. We think it's an extremely fair solution. As I said at first, I won't be able to pay much more, since my colleagues have said everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33433	Thank you, Mr. Bojanic. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33434	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, dear fellow MPs, on the agenda next to the set of laws, is also in front of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the bill on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees I will talk about today. The public sector is defined by this law as a sector prescribed by the budgetary system. The maximum number of employees will refer to the following systems within the public sector – public authorities, public services, autonomous provinces and local self-government units. The total number of employees at a certain and indefinite time according to the data received from Minister Udovici is 500,538 employees. Not all those employees who work in public enterprises are included in this issue. That the devil took the joke and that the Strategy for Public Administration Reform and the Action Plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and this Assembly adopted that they must be respected and applied to the end of the witness and the following statistics that go towards the conclusion that we do not have enough employees in the economy, that the number in the structure is 34.2% which is little compared to the developed countries of the Western Union. We no longer have a sufficient number of private sector employees who, under such conditions and such criteria, can finance civil servants and all other public sector employees. The sectoral review on portfolios, on the basis of the number of jobs and on the basis of the number of earnings spent, shows the need for public administration reform, in order to improve the work of institutions financed from public funds under public administration, all in line with the principles of European administrative space, i.e. to ensure a high quality of services both for citizens themselves and for business operators who are increasingly knocking on the counters of state administrations. Public sector reform will also lead to consolidation of public finances. Also, there will be a healthy economic environment. The years behind us bear the seal of the bad situations that have been happening to us. Let me remind you, we've had periods of poor suspicious privatisations, a large number of administrative workers are employed in health care who won't treat us, who aren't our doctors, who aren't our nurses, who can't provide us with a quality health care service. Also, we had periods and party employment, as well as the purchase of equipment financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which ended up by some warehouses and which we absolutely do not benefit from, is not in the interest of improving the quality of life of citizens. We also had so-called virtual campaigns, the "Let's Clean Serbia" campaign, which aimed only at cleaning up the budget of the Republic of Serbia and how to charge our children. The new Government-led problems with Aleksandar Vukic also faced poor public sector employees structure, poor schedules, insufficient burden of individual staff at individual jobs, insufficient burdens, duplication of functions, surpluses of some profiles, and above all a lack of qualified tightly specialized professional labour force. All of this was aimed at increasing the cost of employees compared to gross social product year by year. Compared to other developed EU countries, above all in health, state sector, education, administration, we are recording lags. My colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, reminded you that the Law on the maximum number of public sector employees is related to the continuation of the reform process, which was promised by the prime minister in his exposé. The Serbian Progressive Party, I mean, runs a responsible and courageous policy. We're trying to finally put order into the state, which no one should have done before or didn't want to arrange. The main goal is to identify the number of employees in accordance with the population and indeed the real needs of the authorities, but also the quality of the services provided by the citizens when they knock on one of our counters. The main goal is to reduce the percentage of gross social product that goes to public sector employees' salaries. I would like to remind the MPs that from the current 11.8%, it is moving to the planned 8%. On several occasions, Minister Udovici announced that there will be no linear reduction, that some fellow Members of Parliament want to play, but that the application of this process will actually bring about the optimisation of the real optimal number of workers needed in each body, which will identify the authority and responsible persons on the basis of objective criteria, such as the number of citizens who serve their needs on the counters, the importance of the function being carried out, for which it is necessary to perform a particular job and the complexity of the job itself. The goal is, as I would say, these changes and these laws to go towards a more humane person of government. In that sense, we want each of us, each of us citizens, each of us among the MPs, to ask ourselves one basic question - what is a good administration, what are the criteria that we want to solve with good administration? When we address a counter, does that civil servant act solely in accordance with the law? Are they professionally and efficiently responsible for all the requirements of the citizens they receive? Are they facing the needs of citizens and meeting them? Is every body, every institution within the state administration open enough and easily accessible to the citizens? Do we treat citizens with special and alert attention and respect? Do we accept and correct our own mistakes as representatives of the local self-government? Are we harming the citizens? When we do damage as a state authority, are we ready to apologize and correct that mistake? Do we deal equally with all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the same or similar situation? Do we not discriminate against all citizens, regardless of their nationality, gender, race, skin color? Do we not always abuse our powers? Are we acting independently and impartially? Are we protecting privacy information from the public interest of our citizens? I believe that as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, I can say that the answer to many of these questions is negative. I expect from Resoral Minister Udovic and Mr Vujovic that the reform process will only be completed by amending the Law on Public Enterprises and the Law on Salaries and that, on this basis, through the introduction of a permanent system of improvement and promotion in the public sector, our municipalities, our cities and other institutions will be the real service of citizens and tents on which citizens can get all the information, to get answers to questions so that some demands can be implemented, so that they do not have and will not be in a position to complete any work without any bribes and corruption. I want them on those counters to be met by kind and smiling officials, who are there for citizens and businesses, first of all, and then for everything else. We may seek these legal solutions and an ideal system of good administration, which rests on eight basic characteristics: the principles of participation, the rule of law, transparency, reliability, orientation towards achieving public interest through the intermediate role and constant communication with the civil sector, in order to ensure that public interests and universally well realised. I want to believe that by applying these principles of equality, inclusion, efficiency, economics and accountability to the public and private sector and organised civil society, we will come and achieve at least a partially ideal system of good administration. At the very end, professionalising the management of public enterprises, eliminating losses in public enterprises, reducing the number of public sector employees, defending the party staff not only on the basis of their expertise, but on the basis of party membership, that by determining the level of earnings, which can no longer withstand the private sector from which these funds are financed, we will be among the only challenges we will face in the ongoing period. Serbia's public sector is bigger than in many countries we want to compare with. People who work in the public sector do their jobs fairly. We have honest teachers, respected doctors, good cops who are here to provide citizens with a favor at all times. But it also works a significant part of those people who, I want to say in the end, get paid monthly, every month on a regular basis, and do almost nothing to improve the quality of Serbian citizens' services. I also expect that the Law on Salaries will contribute to a better system of rewarding and punishing public sector employees for their work paid for from the Republic of Serbia's budget. In voting day, I call on all my fellow Members of Parliament to support the reform course this set of laws adopts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33435	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33436	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, fellow MPs, I will talk today about the draft legislative amendments and the addition of the Public Procurement Act, and I will also say something about the bill on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees. At this point, it is absolutely necessary to do and secure a single market and to carry out permanent control of the legality of the availability of legal persons and the audit of public funds. Time has shown that a well-organised single system of public procurement provides conditions for the free operation of competition among bidders. It is this free competition that allows the state, under the most favourable conditions, to obtain good services and works of the necessary quality and thus to use taxpayers' money in the most economical way. Practice has shown that this creates significant savings and enables savings to be used to increase the quantity and quality of services provided by the state to citizens, which certainly improves the standard of living. In particular, I stress that this law strengthens transparency, strong and strong competition in this area, contributes to strengthening the competitiveness of domestic enterprises, which is certainly a key factor in speeding up economic development, employment growth and citizens' living standards. I am fully aware of the government's intention to continue reforming the public procurement system. The comprehensive analysis of the effects of the application of the Public Procurement Act found that the efficiency of the procurement process is still not at an appropriate level, i.e. the contracting authorities continue to focus most of their efforts on meeting the formal requirements, the public procurement process takes a long time, and this in some ways has the consequence of the inability to provide preconditions for the smooth functioning of the work process. Since our country is in the process of EU accession and of harmonising our domestic regulations in this area of public procurement with relevant EU acts, it is taking place gradually and in line with the real opportunities of the contracting authorities and bidders, so that national rules must be fully in line with EU legal assets until accession to EU membership. I'm going to do a little bit of business with a member of the 59th in which public procurement is arranged to eliminate the consequences of natural disasters and technical and technological accidents, that is, accidents. In particular, the applicable Public Procurement Act, other than exemptions from the application of that Act, and in the case of purchases carried out to provide basic living conditions, in the case of natural disasters or technical and technological accidents whose consequences threaten the lives and health of people or the environment, in accordance with the regulations governing protection against such disasters. When we find ourselves in such situations, it is necessary to take immediate action and action immediately after these events occur in order to eliminate the immediate danger to human safety and health. It is also necessary to restore other capacities after the immediate danger of a natural disaster is stopped, as it is necessary to restore or build the destroyed facilities of citizens. In practice so far, many acquisitions have been subject to an exemption from the application of the law, which has resulted in a major abuse and uncontrolled use of public funds that have been allocated to the budget for these purposes, which has led to an unquality implementation of works on recovery, reconstruction, construction of facilities and infrastructure, precisely because of the absence of competitiveness and the public selection of workers. As a result of the general and broad form of enterprise, this type of restriction simply loses its meaning, by imposing the inevitable need to supplement the Law on Public Procurement by adding a new chapter, which would systematicise all provisions relating to the specificities of public procurement, in order to eliminate the consequences of natural disasters and other accidents, while at the same time determining the cases considered as exceptions under the Public Procurement Act, i.e. to which that law applies. Also, this law provides for Article 66 to delete the obligation of a public procurement expert to pass a professional examination for a public procurement officer, since it is already prescribed that public procurement experts are persons enrolled in the register of permanent judicial skills, which implies that they have expertise and practical experience in a particular field of skill and that they meet the conditions laid down in the Law on Judiciary Experts. In doing so, the necessary involvement of public procurement experts on the work of the Republic Commission is not knowledge from the field of public procurement at the disposal of the Republic Commission, but special expertise in the field of art. If we are dealing with an analysis of the application of the Public Procurement Act so far, we are clear that certain changes increase the economic and efficiency of public procurement, the weaknesses observed with regard to the bidders in their increasing participation. The intensity of competition in 2014 was 2.6 which is the lowest level in the past four years. Also, the analysis shows that even every fifth suspended procedure for reasons that no bids have been received, and that only one bid has been received in almost half of the procedures implemented. Therefore, in order to strengthen the public procurement system, these amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, which are again in line with those Directives, have been proposed. As regards the second law, the Law on how to determine the maximum number of employees in the public sector, the reasons are clear and the need for rationalisation is fully visible, aimed at increasing employment, implementing fiscal consolidation, thereby stopping and reducing public debt growth by 2017. If there is a surplus of employees in the public sector, it is, in a sense, a burden for our entire economy. Article 18 of this Act proposes provisions on the internal labour market. In order for the rationalisation process to be implemented in the most comprehensive manner, it is necessary to enable a functional redistribution of the system in local self-government. So we have a chance to hire employees at those jobs where they are most needed, by conducting an internal competition for the local self-government system. In particular, it should be stressed that the reduction in the number of employees should not be carried out at the cost of the quality and efficiency of work. Many may not show a willingness to adjust or lack the capacity to identify potential opportunities to reduce the number of employees, or reduce the cost of earnings. This reform must respond to the key three objectives - to reduce staff costs, to permanently increase the quality of public services and to reduce the costs of the organisation. All these activities for the ultimate goal are to improve the work of public administration in general. In particular, I must stress that as much as possible of increasing the risk of poverty, increasing social differences as possible and that it is a priority to implement such rationalisation based on previous analyses of the functions of jobs, organisations, numbers and structures of employees over the next three years. In the previous period there was really excessive employment, we have to admit that. At times, rationalisation meant the reception of new officials, even more than the size of the previous reduction. A few years ago, many public service institutions in our country were practically the prey of a political party with the slogan "Property in front of Politics", but it was a kind of flood that wiped out all politically unspeakable and insubordination. My great wish would be that this government of ours would give its seal and confirmation of its work and show that by choosing the most professional and best and what the effects of its work will best know to recognize our citizens. It is important, therefore, that we depolitize the state administration, i.e. The public sector, and to assess what real needs we need. I will quote a message from this brochure that we just received today from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government – With less can we do. As a state, we need better results and we need to change the way we work and the way we deal with work and responsibility. My request to you, Minister, would be that all local self-governments are not treated the same way. In doing so, I think of those who have over-employed, that they must now make bigger cuts and make greater efforts to implement the rationalisation process, and those who have been more secure, which, therefore, have less employment, to bear the burden a little less. In the end, in the voting day, I will support both legislative proposals, along with the SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33437	The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33438	Dear Prime Minister, honourable government representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues, on special terms of sale of certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia, I quote: "The main reason for the adoption of this law is the sale of immovable property in order to achieve additional revenues from the Republic of Serbia's budget, without increasing the tax burden on citizens and the economy, and all to achieve macroeconomic stability and implementation of fiscal consolidation measures. “ What, then, is the title of special conditions? What are these special conditions, without these conditions already being defined but by some specific existing regulation, for example, by the work of the Directorate which manages state property, the Law on Bonds and others? First, it is necessary to define these specific conditions and their foundation. How is it that the sale includes real estates that are not registered to the Republic of Serbia? Does that mean the buyer will legally buy an unlisted object? It is necessary to register the facility before sale for the safety of legal work and for subsequent possible consequences. I also believe that enrolling objects would affect the very height of the price. I also believe that the tax administration determines the found situation on the market, perhaps even a scale of value given immovableity, or in the case of bidding, the initial bottom price of the immovable value. The role of the tax administration begins and ends in determining the tax scale to be paid on the basis of this type of legal transaction, i.e. purchases, not that the tax administration determines the market value. According to us, that's not necessary. We also see the problem in Article 8, where it is noted that there is no consistency and coordination of data from the state and the possibility of easy and easy access to this type of information from state authorities and institutions on the basis of appropriate authority without conducting a kind of legal procedure and procedure that we consider to be a waste of time. This does not affect the efficiency of state authorities. Also, it gets the impression that members of the 3rd and 10th are being given the right to avoid liability. Such an attitude that relieves the state of responsibility can lead to potential lawsuits on account of hidden intentions. We think that the process of determining the price of immovableity is not fully defined. For all of this, you will understand that we have reservations on the solutions offered. On the proposal for a law on how to determine the maximum number of employees in the public sector, the Serbian People's Party has not tabled any amendments because we are against this way of identifying the number of employees. In order to be more precise, we are neither against reducing the number of employees where it burdens the business. However, this law should contain more precise criteria and clearer conditions for the implementation and implementation of the law itself. What is the guarantee that there will be a release of party personnel from the public sector? We don't see it anywhere, since it's the basic idea of passing this law. Also, empowering ministers to determine the quality of the work of individuals in companies, according to us, is not a logical solution. Ministers are not sufficiently familiar and professional enough with the work of all employees in the activities they operate and I think specifically that the ministry run by the minister of emergency situations is fully aware of this unfavorable event during the flood. We also have that view for a few local self-governments. Many corporate employment parameters are determined according to the old scheme principle of population. It's mostly the basic principle used. This cannot even be a basic criterion for employment, as it must be taken into account the specificity of the local self-government itself, as far as this is concerned, means tourism, industrial or any security as the colleague has spoken, or any other. Suitably, in a specific JKP in Belgrade, employment is created according to the number of inhabitants, and imagine how many citizens of Serbia, not just citizens of Belgrade, and foreigners pass through our capital. Imagine that size of work that this worker needs. For these reasons, we believe that the half-solvements presented are not adequate or complete to support them. On the basis of the proposal for a law on the payment of the legal persons of entrepreneurs and natural persons who do not carry out their duties, we are of the opinion that there is a need to comply with the Law on Payment Services, which is soon in force and therefore envisaged, we assume that the said draft law is adopted by an urgent procedure and that we can thus support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33439	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33440	Dear Vice President, it would be nice for you to stand upstairs under my signature for the PRECRET Movement, I hope you'll make it right. Exactly three years ago in this room, 27. Seventy-seven. In 2012, a man, now vice-president of the government, exposed the exposés here. Another man applauded him now, Minister. They promised three years ago that Serbia would live better, that there would be more jobs, higher salaries, higher pensions, that the whole of Serbia would be a construction site. Gentlemen Ministers, present here today, you didn't board that Titanic at the time, you got on a little later. Today, after three years, you are here to offer us new layoffs of workers, workers who, in the meantime, have been reduced salaries, who have been taken away from work, pensioners have lost part of their pensions. There are worse and worse living in Serbia. And you, instead of a law that would create space for new jobs, Mrs. Udovici and Mr. Vujovic, are offering discharge. You're firing the maids in the hospital rooms, firing the maids, and you think that's how you're gonna get the state out of the crisis. No, I don't. This is the end of the gentlemen of your stories, and I assume that the citizens have realized that you have no other mechanisms except for reducing the standards of citizens, except for reducing wages, reducing pensions and now removing 9,000 jobs. Who's 9.001 who'll be out of a job, Mrs. Widowsky? Who's next? So you are today passing nine laws in front of the MPs without any law that could be called developmental, without any law that might say that it opens one job. Here, the law on special conditions sells certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia. It explains, gentlemen of the Ministers - the reduction of public sector wages and pensions directly affects the purchasing power of a significant number of residents, thereby the amount of revenue the state collects on the basis of consumption taxes. You know what you're saying -- we've cut salaries, we've cut pensions, we've cut state revenues to increase state revenues -- we'll sell state estates. We're going to sell state-owned immovableities in a way that allows one man to buy that immovableity without any possibility of competition. You're proposing amendments to the Public Procurement Act. When we told you a few years ago that this law would not increase efficiency, not reduce corruption, that it would only complicate public procurement, you were talking about savings. By this law you return to the period before the adoption of this basic law. You allow no transparency, you allow small public procurements, instead of three million dinars to be five million dinars. Why? To allow your local staff to get past the public call before the elections. This is very clear all these laws are in some way preparing for the next elections. All these laws are indications that you don't have any plan, that you have no idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33441	Time, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33442	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not waste my time as the previous speaker did, therefore, drastically coming out of what was the point of the agenda, telling various lies and nonsense, reminding me of some dates from history that were three years ago, which was five years ago and so on. But that's something you should have suggested. I will stick strictly to what is the agenda point, and today we are discussing very important proposals for public finance laws, from the public sector, public debt, property and so on. I will try, although much has already been said by my fellow MPs, I will try to embrace the most important issues of the proposed solutions. With these proposed solutions, we primarily continue to hear institutional and structural reforms in the area of public finances and the public sector that started when this government was formed, the current Government of the Republic of Serbia. What are the goals? Raising the level of financial discipline, consolidation and recovery of public finances, the reduction of public debt, the settlement of an unsustainable situation in the public sector that we have had so far, the alignment with the assets of regulated financial systems in the world, but also the effective application of these laws in practice. These are certainly the goals that we want to achieve by this legal solution. If the previous speaker doesn't agree with these estimates, we've heard a variety of objections to these bill proposals today. There were also well-intentioned suggestions, constructive suggestions, I would even say legitimate concerns. That's what's good, but there's also been extremely inappropriate statements, malpractice assessments and extremely tenorous false statements, and I've already said nonsense. Today we could hear about the press conference of the previous speaker that today's laws have the purpose of cementing the party state. This is said by an MP who was only until recently a loud speaker of one party, a party of the former regime which is synonym for the establishment of a party state, and a party that had the president of the state who was then both the president of the party and the president of the local community and the president of the home council and everything the president of this country has and from it we get such assessments. Furthermore, it is said that this allows SNS personnel to continue to be employed under the strict control of republican and local authorities. Well, you invented party employment. You patented party employment. So it's your product, it's your invention, it's your patent. The cleaning lady couldn't get a job without the DS party book in your day. What's he saying next? It says, this law will create insecurity in health, education, culture and elsewhere. He probably meant the period from 2008 to 2012, when you left 400,000 people out of work, and you promised 200,000 new jobs, so there weren't even those 200,000 new jobs, but you left another 400,000 people out of work. Is that the uncertainty you're talking about? The insecurity of hundreds and hundreds of businesses, factories and companies you've destroyed, is it that uncertainty? When it comes to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt, the proposed amendments aim to, certainly, reduce pressure, as we heard on Serbia's bulky side of the budget and increase financial discipline in the public sector. Namely, it is abolished, and that is what I would point out, the possibility that the Republic of Serbia provides guarantees for loans, and for the purposes of current liquidity to public enterprises and other legal entities, I am primarily thinking about local self-government, etc. Therefore, borrowing is limited on the basis of guarantees, which introduces additional financial control of the public sector. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, it should be pointed out that it is a matter of harmonising with the strategy for the development of public procurement in Serbia, as well as with the accompanying action plan and the strategy, as well as with EU directives governing this area. These changes will certainly make it possible to make public resources more economically available, to remove all these shortcomings that have been seen so far in the practice of applying, i.e. when implementing public procurement, to improve the efficiency of the procurement process itself, and to prevent possible abuses in public procurement procedures and to the interests of both the contracting authorities and the bidders. The minister has already explained on several occasions specific changes in the amount of small purchases, so raising from three million to five million, or 10 million when it comes to certain cases, as well as part of the definition of active legislation, then part of the modernisation of the communication system, that I would not now repeat everything that has been said so far. When it comes to the draft law on special conditions of selling certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to point out that it was high time to establish order in this area and put property into office. The current situation, which was absolutely unsettled, has created major problems in the absence of an adequate list of state property, as well as a large number of state-owned immovableities, which were not in office or used by state bodies or organisations or other legal entities, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia. This law certainly regulates the area and defines more precisely the conditions for the sale of certain parts of state property. The way in which the price is determined, as well as the sale of a part of state property itself, and all for the purpose of home management of state assets, with the affirmation of market value. When we talk about the bill on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees, it should point out that it provides for a continuation of public sector reform, then improving the efficiency of public administration, but also making a significant contribution to financial consolidation of Serbia and healing, so to speak, to overall economic growth. Optimisation and rationalisation of the number of public sector employees is a necessary condition for further public administration reform, but also for improving the quality of public administration, which is one of the basic objectives when we talk about establishing long-term sustainability of public finances, and creating preconditions for sustainable growth. Given that previous speakers have pointed out all the positive effects that are foreseen by other draft laws, which are on the agenda today, I would no longer spend the time of the parliamentary group, but I would call on us to support the proposed solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33443	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33444	In order for our citizens to be properly informed, I just want to say a few figures about the results already confirmed by the results in six months. I mentioned the figures today at seven months, and after six months of income, total budget revenues are 46.3 billion higher than in the same period of the previous year, or 11.6% higher, and expenditures are 52 billion lower and 9.8% lower, respectively. The deficit has been reduced from 126 billion to 26.4 for the first six months, and the general government deficit is about 10 billion and is 35 billion after six months this year. These are convincing and largely sustainable results that will be held by the end of this year, as I said during July, with July 24th, the result is a surplus of one billion, so the results will be better at the level of the republican budget, and we expect it to be unchanged at the level of the general state budget. These are positive results, these are the results that all analysts consider to be very positive results, given that we are applying restrictive measures, so fiscal consolidation is a restrictive measure, and in such conditions we are reviewing the growth rate from negative to negative to positive, and we are achieving all the aggregates that are completely and perfectly good, sustainable and on the basis of what we wanted. I think it's very important that citizens listen not to impressions, political impressions, but to figures and sustainable numbers. We're on a very good path. The key challenges in the future will be the effective use of funds, the resolution of structural reforms and the closure of all the trunks where we have inefficiently spent resources and these laws that we are discussing today and which we will discuss on Wednesday, and probably have the opportunity to vote for them on Thursday, they will offer us the opportunity to make greater non-tax revenues first and secondly, budgets use much more efficiently and achieve the results we expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33445	The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33446	Thank you. The Honorable President, Deputy Prime Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality of Svrljig, the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. I'm going to talk about this set of laws that are very important for the continued functioning of our budget and our country. The set of these laws is very important, precisely because it will have the opportunity to realize what is planned and in this way it will have the opportunity to provide a better future for our children and for our children's children. I will talk about the bill, about how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees. This law regulates how to determine the maximum number of employees, state authorities, public services, AP Vojvodina, units of local self-government, as well as deadlines for reducing the number of employees until the maximum number of employees has been established. It is significant that this law covers more users of public funds than the 2009 Law on determining the maximum number of employees, which means that the savings effects will be better. This bill puts the accent on the rationalisation of public administration, not just the space for reducing the number of employees by a particular formula, but requires serious analysis, and then for the next redistribution of personnel, the formation of new organisational continents, and all for the sake of organisation, the more successful administrations, which will have greater effects with a smaller number of personnel. The rationalisation process should last until the end of 2017, which means it covers a three-year period and will be implemented in two phases. The first phase will be realised through the natural outflow of employees, retirement, termination of employment relations for other reasons, as well as a reduction through surpluses, resulting in planned savings in the 2015 budget. The second phase is carried out after a comprehensive and comprehensive analysis that will identify the best way to rationalise, best way to distribute personnel, the need to introduce information technologies, improve employees, and all in order to make the most of all available resources, raise the quality of public administration services and bring Europe closer to standards. I support the adoption of such a law, because after many years without the real effects of rationalisation in the public sector, at last, and access to this problem seriously and will be implemented. Article 4 of the Law lays down the authority of the Government for the adoption of acts to be determined each calendar year by the maximum number of unspecified staff in the public sector, public authorities, public services, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. Exceptions are provided for in respect of competences with a system of education and individual services of the President of the Republic, the judiciary and certain ministries. On the basis of the government act referred to in Article 4 of the Act, the competent authorities at the level of the AP and local self-government shall establish the maximum number of employees of each organisational form. It is positive that such a bill provides for measures that are listed in Article 7 of the Law and which would be implemented primarily through the process of uniting individual services, through the abolition of certain non-essential, reduction and accession of organisational units, the change of their structure, the introduction of information technologies in certain administrative affairs, the unification of joint transactions at the level of the body, the centralisation of public procurement, etc. The law stipulates that the maximum number of employees in the local self-government system is determined in accordance with the number of inhabitants on its territory, i.e. by groups a certain number of employees per 1,000 inhabitants who can be corrected depending on the degree of development, the area of territory, the number of settlements, national minorities. The maximum number of employees at the level of local self-government are employed in all bodies of the local self-government unit, public services and public enterprises, legal entities established by these public enterprises, companies and other organisations that have the obligation to report data on persons employed in the register, or have employees’ salaries financed from the budget of local self-government. This law also established a minimum number of employees at the level of local self-government regardless of the established criteria, which cannot be less than 50 employees. In particular, such a law provides for exceptions to restrictions that so far existed with regard to the number of employees at a certain time, which should not have crossed 10% of workers indefinitely. These exceptions relate to the employment of unemployed persons from the National Employment Service records through various measures of active employment policy, public works, additional education, training and the like. Workers' employment to implement projects financed from EU funding from different donations if their profits are paid out of donor funds for the replacement of temporarily absent employees, for persons on exchange in primary and secondary education, for activities of seasonal character – anti-gradal protection, surveys and others, for persons engaged in social protection, culture, translation, different training in diplomatic representations, etc. Each body which has a defined obligation to carry out rationalisation shall be implemented by 30 June of each calendar year. If there is a reduction in the number of employees below the maximum number, that authority may make admission to the maximum number without obtaining consent. In particular, the Municipality of Svrljig is an example of a municipality that has respected every call so far for rationalization, so that we do not have a surplus of employees under this bill, nor is there a shortage compared to the maximum number. For ten years today, the Municipality of Srljig is conducting rationalisation gradually and gradually, and this refers to the employment of public enterprises. In doing so, we have not even succumbed to our own trend of forming new public enterprises that have served only for the purpose of employment. During my ten-year term in local self-government, I advocated rationalisation and improved employee employment, saving both the municipality's budget and the domestic business. I believe that this law is positive because, finally, in the public sector, which is always considered to be only the consumer and parasite of the state to be a serious part of the state apparatus, because it is directly necessary to carry out very important tasks for the functioning of society and citizens. Unfortunately, many years of abuse in this sector have created a negative opinion on everyone in the public sector, and if there are good examples when it comes to the number of employees in local self-government and a good attitude towards jobs and citizens who finance us. The Municipality of Srljig from the transfer amounts to less than 18% of the salary budget. With us members of the municipal council unpaid, the members and president of the commission are unpaid, the committees have only the right to the logs, so it's one of the good examples of local self-government that belongs to the 10% or 15%, which will not have any extra employees after the adoption of this law. This law allows local self-government to create their own employment policy in services and assess priorities and welcome this kind of giving to certain autonomy to locals. Also, the adoption of this law should at the same time follow the adoption of the Law on Payment Classes and the Law on Employees in Local Self-Government, because the Law on Working Relations in State Authorities, which is now applicable, is ineffective and has difficulty in applying in practice, in particular a well-regulated system of rewarding, as well as a system of sanctioning workers. There should be an efficient and applicable system of rewarding good workers, as well as an efficient system of sanctioning those workers who do not have a good and responsible relationship to work. I, as a member of the People's Parliament and representative of the United Peasants' Party, will vote in favour of this law, because I think this law is good for those who respect the rules of conduct, all of us who deal with politics, which is that the standard of life and family, my family and family of all citizens, is the only measure of who will and how much power it will be. So I think that this law and the set of these other laws will be very important for the further functioning of our country, and once again, as a man, I will vote in favour of all these laws and all the laws proposed by the Government, headed by our Prime Minister Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-27-0.u33447	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principled and unique search and we continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
